business before Questions Committee of Selection Ordered , that Jo Churchill and Steve Double be discharge from the Committee of Selection and Joy Morrissey and Stuart Anderson be add . — ( Mr Marcus Jones . ) Oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — violence against Women and girl : legislation whether he plan to take legislative step to help end violence against woman and girl . whether he plan to take legislative step to help end violence against woman and girl . whether he plan to take legislative step to help end violence against woman and girl . whether he plan to take legislative step to help end violence against woman and girl . what reform he be make to the criminal justice system to tackle violence against woman and girl . Minister , welcome . thank you , Mr Speaker . since 2010 , this Government have transform the legislative landscape on tackle violence against woman . we have create new criminal offence of stalk , non - fatal strangulation and coercive control , recognise that the most pernicious abuse be not always physical . we have implement comprehensive modern slavery and domestic abuse law , and outlaw insidious harm , such as revenge porn and the so - call " rough sex " defence to murder . we be prosecute more rape case today than in 2010 , with sentence that be about 50 % long . but we be go far still , in our Sentencing Bill , our Criminal Justice Bill and our Victims and Prisoners Bill . I welcome the Minister to her place . we need to be do much more to tackle the culture of toxic masculinity that , sadly , still exist . we recently have a situation in Midlothian where one of our councillor face sexual harassment at a public event . when they complain and raise the issue , the perpetrator ' s colleague simply say , " but he ' s a good guy . " . we need to do much more to tackle that sort of attitude . despite the complaint be make and the complainant be believe , no action be ever take . what more can this Government do to ensure that in these situation action be take so that we protect woman and girl from such unfortunate situation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I know that he do a lot of work on perpetrator programme through the White Ribbon scheme in Scotland . I be sorry to hear about the experience of one of his local councillor , and I draw to his attention the protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 , which recently receive Royal Assent . it create an offence of intentional harassment carry out because of a person ' s sex . it be quite possible that that cover his friend ' s case , so I would be grateful if he write to I or come to see I to discuss it far . last month , Sex Matters present the Prime Minister with a letter sign by almost 15 , 000 people ask he to " take urgent action to halt an escalating campaign of violence and intimidation against woman in the name of ' tran right ' . " it detail how woman and , in particular , lesbian be be threaten with the loss of their livelihood and with physical violence , shout down and intimidate at public event , and sometimes even assault for insist on their right to freedom of belief and of expression , and for call for sex - base protection to be uphold . will the Minister condemn that violence and intimidation ? will she urge the Prime Minister to do so as well and to commit to address it by commission a rapid review of the impact of extreme tran right activism on woman ' s right , include the right of lesbian ? will she also open a call for evidence ? I thank the hon . and learn Lady for her question , and I certainly condemn the conduct that she have describe . even though hold a gender critical belief be protect in law , both under section 10 of the Equality Act 2010 and , more widely , under article 9 of the european convention on human right , I be aware of the polarisation and , sometimes , intimidation that surround this debate . I have see the letter that Sex Matters write to the Prime Minister , and the hon . and learn Lady should be in no doubt about how seriously this be view . I have make reference to the Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 , which create an offence of intentional harassment where there be any causal connection , even a weak one , to a person ' s sex , under which such conduct may fall . she have ask for a rapid review , and I would like to meet she to discuss that far and any next step . a recent large - scale study by the Open University on societal attitude and experience of online violence against woman and girl find that seven in 10 believe that the current legislation be not effective in tackle such violence . almost three quarter of woman in Scotland , and more than half of man there , want online violence to be make a crime — that be a high level than be find among those survey in England . platform have a duty of care to their user , so what step be the Minister take to ensure that new guidance in the Online Safety Act 2023 be effectively enforce and encourage woman and girl to come forward with case of online abuse ? the hon . Lady make an excellent point . there be no doubt that some of the toxic content , include violent pornography , have a serious impact on the way that woman and girl be treat and the attitude that certain man have towards they . as she will know , the Online Safety Act 2023 only receive Royal Assent a month ago , and there be an extended implementation period . she will also know , I hope , that one of the later amendment to the Bill accept by the Government place a statutory obligation on Ofcom to publish guidance which summarise the measure that all online service need to take to reduce the risk of violence to woman and girl . that be not on its own , but in consultation with the Domestic Abuse Commissioner , the Victims Commissioner and other expert . the Act also place an obligation on social medium and pornography provider to prevent child from be expose to harmful content through new and robust age verification exercise — order . sorry ; I will come back to the hon . Lady on that . I welcome the Minister to her place . her former colleague , the Home Secretary , think homelessness be a lifestyle choice , yet in reality , almost a quarter of homelessness among woman and child be due to a violent or abusive relationship . the Scottish Government be pilot £ 1 , 000 grant to assist woman who have leave violent relationship , to help pay for essential include rent and clothing . have she consider that approach , instead of take tent off the homeless ? we place the safety of domestic abuse victim at the heart of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . local authority have be give £ 25 million to ensure that all domestic abuse victim receive priority for housing . in addition , the Act place a legal duty on tier 1 local authority to provide a wide range of support , include refuge . to date , the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have allocate £ 377 million for local authority to comply with the duty to provide housing . it be vital that victim of serious sexual assault be support through what can often be a lengthy and traumatic process , yet we know that many rape victim do not access early mental health support because their therapy note can be request as part of the criminal investigation . that happen far too often and treat the wrong person with suspicion . do the Minister agree that a specialist legal advocate for victim could allow they to challenge invasive request for private information and access the support they need at the time they need it most ? this be an issue that the Law Commission be look into , and it already appear in our Victims and Prisoners Bill , so that such request will never be more than necessary and proportionate . on the subject of whether there should be a dedicated legal adviser , I respectfully draw the hon . Gentleman ' s attention to the fact that since 2010 , there be now 950 dedicated independent sexual violence adviser , who can support victim of rape and serious sexual abuse every step of the way . we have quadruple victim fund to ensure that we continue to grow that cohort . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I warmly welcome my hon . friend to her place on the Treasury Bench ; it be much deserve , and she be a distinguished member of the Justice Committee . she will know from that time that much work have already be do , follow on from Operation Soteria , to improve investigation , conviction and prosecution rate and the victim experience in relation to rape and serious sexual offence . will she also bear in mind that there be further opportunity , which we highlight as a Committee in our scrutiny of the victim element of the Victims and Prisoners Bill , to improve the victim experience and ensure that it be consistent across the whole country ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and applaud all the work he do as Chair of the Justice Committee . it be undoubtedly true that the Victims and Prisoners Bill play an important role in put the victim code on to a statutory footing and give victim enhance right , include a right of review and a right to make an impact statement , which we have support . I also draw his attention to not just Operation Soteria but the fact that we be train 2 , 000 specialist police officer in rape and serious sexual offence , as well as the national roll - out of section 28 evidence procedure , which enable victim of these hideous crime to give evidence early , privately and behind closed door , to completely change their experience of the criminal justice system and keep they engage in the process . I welcome the Minister to her well - deserve appointment . she will be aware of the case of David Fuller , who , as well as murder two woman , abuse the corpse of over 100 woman and girl in the mortuary of the Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust . for these crime , he will rightly die in prison . however , the current legislation be shockingly inadequate on the abuse of dead body . it cover only penetrative sexual assault and not other act of sexual assault on dead body . will the Minister meet I , my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) and other colleague to discuss how we can rectify that in the Criminal Justice Bill , which come before the House next week ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . the David Fuller case be appalling , and I send my deep sympathy to the family of his victim . it be unbelievably dispirit that we be even have to talk about these act , and of extend the definition of abuse to meet the width and depravity of his crime . as my right hon . friend will know , the offence he be refer to be deal with in section 70 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 . as a result of the David Fuller case , the Ministry of Justice be now review both the maximum penalty and the scope of the law to ensure that what my right hon . friend describe be adequately capture . of course , I will have a meeting with both he and my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) in due course . I call the SNP spokesperson . I join other in welcome the Minister to her place . a victim Bill have be promise by the Conservatives since 2016 , but while the UK Government have dither , the Scottish Government have introduce the Victims , witness , and Justice Reform ( Scotland ) Bill , which seek to put victim and witness at the heart of the justice system . it ensure that a range of trauma - inform support be available to child victim of violent and sexual abuse crime , allow they to give pre - record evidence without need to go to a police station or a court . have the Minister and the Government consider adopt that approach ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . as he will know , our Victims and Prisoners Bill be make its way through Parliament as we speak . he have talk about victim - focus support ; I draw his attention to thing like Operation Soteria , which be direct at rape victim and have now be roll out on a national basis . that place victim ' right at the heart of the inquiry and focus all the effort on the suspect and their behaviour , so to be honest , what he have describe be consistent with our current model of police and investigate crime . I hope the Victims and Prisoners Bill will conclude its passage through Parliament and receive Royal Assent soon . icc : Government support what additional ( a ) financial and ( b ) practical support the Government plan to provide the International Criminal Court for its war crime investigation . the UK be one of the major funder of the International Criminal Court , and provide far practical support include sentence enforcement , pro bono expertise in victim and witness protection , and secondment . in June , I meet with the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court , Karim Khan KC , and I will remain in contact with the ICC to discuss what resource it need to operate effectively . it should go without say that the International Criminal Court need to be able to do its work unimpeded if it be to establish when collateral damage transcend into deliberate slaughter , or whether self - defence be in fact collective punishment . will the Government provide a guarantee from the Dispatch Box that they will not intervene — as they do alongside the United States in 2021 — against any future ICC investigation into war crime perpetrate against the people of Gaza ? the hon . Gentleman ' s original question be about the resource that we provide to the ICC . we be the second large donor after Germany , and we have provide some additional support this year . question about prosecution be matter for independent prosecutor . it be not for Ministers in this Parliament to make that sort of decision : that will be a matter for independent prosecutor , whom I would expect to exercise their discretion freely and fairly . legal aid : immigration case what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of legal aid for immigration case . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of legal aid for immigration case . legal aid be available for asylum case , for victim of domestic abuse and modern slavery , for separated migrant child , and for immigration case where someone be challenge a detention decision . through the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , individual who receive a removal notice under the Act will have access to free legal advice in relation to that notice . the Law Society have warn that a propose 15 % increase in legal aid rate will not be enough to ensure that sufficient immigration lawyer be available to deal with deportation to Rwanda . charity support refugee make 16 attempt on average before secure a lawyer , while in London , charity be only successfully find legal representation for 4 . 1 % of referral . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the legal aid sector do not collapse in England and Wales due to the poor decision make by his colleague ? the 15 % be agree after a six - week consultation look at other increase for other specialist work . the Legal aid Agency will always keep provision under review to ensure that cover be provide for those who need it . there be approximately 175 , 000 people trap in the current asylum backlog , many of they live in hotel with no right to support themselves or their family through work . instead of unlawful and pointless dog - whistle gesture such as the Government ' s Rwanda policy , would it not be well to allow people the opportunity to work and support themselves , and to allow the Home Office and the legal aid system to be resource adequately so that we can deal with our international obligation exactly as we ought to ? the question about the Home Office be one the hon . Member may want to raise with Home Office Ministers themselves . on access to legal aid , I would not say that £ 2 billion of legal aid mean this be under - resource . this year alone , we have continue to increase level of legal aid across the board , and specifically in specialist area such as immigration , so I reject the notion that it be underfunde . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Lord Chancellor be currently face a judicial review over the failure to ensure that immigration legal aid be available to those who need it . for example , the south - west have capacity for few than 300 people per year , yet the Bibby Stockholm have capacity for almost 500 . be this not an abject failure of the legal aid system ? it be operate exactly how the Government have design it to : abandon the most vulnerable to navigate a complex and hostile environment without any recourse to legal representation . be this moral bankruptcy or incompetence , or be it a combination of both ? I do not accept that characterisation at all . in fact , this Government be put legal aid in place to support those affect by the Illegal Migration Act and especially the uplift in fee to ensure that qualified legal advice be available to people , whether physically or through telephone advice . access to justice , and access to legal aid , be there . ex - offender : employment what progress he have make on improve employment opportunity for ex - offender . I be pleased to say that the proportion of prison leaver in employment six month after their release have more than double in the two year to March 2023 . we have deliver significant reform in this area , among which be prison employment lead to match prisoner to job on release , and business - lead employment advisory board that partner prisoner with industry to benefit from their expertise . while this be very significant progress , there be always more to do , and we be determined to continue to see that figure climb higher . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer . we know that ex - offender be at high risk of homelessness , particularly immediately on release . we also know that be in work significantly reduce that risk , so the link between the probation service and Jobcentre plus in support ex - offender into work be of critical importance . will the Minister do everything possible across Government to ensure that ex - offender leave custody with the good possible chance of get a job ? may I take this opportunity to pay tribute to my predecessor as prison and probation Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , for his work in this space ? my hon . friend , as always , be absolutely spot - on that secure employment and prevent homelessness be essential to tackle reoffende . those in work be nearly 10 % less likely to reoffend . we work closely with the Department for Work and Pensions to ensure that prison leaver have effective support to prepare for employment on release . for example , prisoner can meet a DWP prison work coach from 12 week before release to provide advice on benefit and employment , include day one access to DWP employment programme , and we continue to foster those strong link . I thank the Minister for his response . veteran very often fall on hard time , find themselves in prison and then become ex - offender . have the Minister have any opportunity to work alongside the Minister for Veterans ' affair to ensure that priority can be give to help veteran get over the bad time and to re - engage in society again ? they have offer so much during their time in the service , and they can do so again if give the opportunity . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who be absolutely right to highlight just how much veteran , even when they have get themselves into bother , can offer the community through rehabilitation and through work . although I have not yet have the opportunity to engage with my right hon . friend the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , I intend to do so . a whole range of opportunity can work for veteran . just this weekend , I see the ex - jockey Ryan Hatch on ITV Racing talk about his work highlight equine job opportunity — which be often appropriate for veteran — in prison . I look forward to work with my right hon . friend — and , indeed , with the hon . Gentleman , if he wish — on this issue . Prison Capacity what step he be take to increase the number of prison place . what step he be take to increase prison capacity . this Government have embark on the big prison building programme since the victorian era , to create 20 , 000 modern , secure , rehabilitative place . to date , we have already deliver 5 , 600 place , a third prison at HMP Millsike be under construction , and last week we secure outline planning permission for our fourth prison , near the exist HMP Gartree in Leicestershire . I welcome the delivery of 20 , 000 additional prison place , as well as plan to deport some foreign criminal , rather than jail they here in the UK . that will free up space and deliver considerable saving to the taxpayer . what step be the Secretary of State take to work with the Home Office to mitigate the risk of legal challenge as we seek to deport some of those who may pose a risk to the public ? my hon . friend make an important point . between January 2019 and March 2023 , 14 , 700 foreign national offender be serve with deportation order and remove . as he have indicate , we have expand the early removal scheme to allow for the removal of fno up to 18 month before the end of the custodial element of their sentence , so that we can bring forward the deportation of criminal who should not be here . on his specific point , we work closely with the Home Office to ensure that the right people and process be in place to resist legal challenge . I welcome the measure that my right hon . and learn Friend have outline to increase prison capacity to its large ever , but he will recognise that capacity in prison need to come with capacity in staffing in order to make it a reality . will he update the House on the progress make so far , particularly in the midland and Birmingham ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who be such a champion on this issue . he be right , and to increase the number of staff we have increase pay , accept the recommendation of the independent pay review body in full . that mean an increase of 7 % for band 3 to band 5 officer , which be wing officer up to custodial manager . we be also back our officer with the roll - out of body - wear video for every officer on shift , as well as PAVA spray in the adult estate . the net result be that the resignation rate be down significantly . that mean more people remain on the wing , improve the quantity and quality of our prison place overall . may I welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , to her well - deserve place on the Treasury Bench ? as well as expand prison capacity , have the Secretary of State look at the possibility of invest in woman ' s centre ? that be part of the Government ' s female offender strategy , but it also have a prove track record in cut reoffende ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word about my hon . friend . yes , absolutely ; where the court determine that an alternative disposal be appropriate , we be keen for non - custodial option to be available . that be why we be invest heavily in alternative . there be case where woman offender must go to jail , but where that be not necessary we want to ensure that alternative remain so that rehabilitation can take place in the community . now that the Government have leave themselves with no choice but to send few people to prison and let more out early because there be simply no space for they , how many convict criminal be currently on bail await sentence , compare with this time last year ? when do the Government expect normal service to resume ? I be proud of the fact that , unlike the previous Government , we be roll out a prison expansion programme — something that entirely defeat the Labour party when it be in office . labour say it be go to roll out three titan prison . how many do it produce ? absolutely none . on bail , it be the case that the number of those await trial be high , and up by 6 , 000 compare with the pre - covid period . that be why this Government be expand capacity on the estate . we have 1 , 000 more judge , we be increase the amount of legal aid , and we be ensure that when people come to be sentence , unlike under the Labour Government , they be go to prison for long . I call the shadow Minister . the Secretary of State ' s emergency early release scheme be mean to tackle a capacity crisis that be entirely of this Government ' s make , and it exclude only serious violence . surely domestic abuse and stalking be serious offence , yet they be not exclude from early release . what kind of signal do that give to victim , the public , and indeed perpetrator of violence against woman and girl ? we be proud that under this Government sentence for offence such as rape have go up by a third . we have a situation in which charge be up , the conviction rate be high and sentence be long — and , unlike under the Labour Government , people be spend a high proportion of those sentence in custody . we think that be the right thing to do . to the hon . member ' s point , the exclusion in place go beyond what he indicate , so he be factually incorrect ; they also include sex offence and terrorist offence . here be a really important point : where the custodial authority be satisfied that there be a specific risk , there be an opportunity to ensure that release be block . that be important , because we will always stand up for victim of crime . argument weak ? go long and do not answer the question — the classic response from this Government . the truth be that without any Government announcement of a start date , prison begin release offender over a month ago . these man be already walk our street , but the Government will not tell we how many , or why they be behind bar in the first place . why do the Government not believe that the public deserve to know who be be release back into the community when a court decide that they should be in prison ? we will make whatever appropriate announcement in due course ; we will not demur from that . we will also not apologise for have , under this Government , a high custodial population than before . we be take robust step to ensure that the public be protect , which mean unashamedly that those who commit the most serious offence — those such as murder in the context of sexual or sadistic conduct — go to prison for the rest of their life . will the hon . member support that ? I wonder . we be also use the evidence so that those capable of rehabilitation be rehabilitate . one thing that we will not ever put at risk be the threat to woman and girl . as the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , indicate , we have take step to ensure that victim of domestic abuse will be properly protect under the Government . here be a man who will go short : I call Sir Desmond Swayne . non - custodial sentence : public confidence whether he be take step to increase level of public confidence in non - custodial sentence . to earn public confidence , non - custodial sentence must self - evidently be punitive , so that the british people can see that offender be be punish for their crime . they must also be enforceable , so that judge and magistrate can be confident that those who step out of line risk be bring back before the court and sentence to immediate custody . that be why we be double the number of the late GPS tag available to the court , so that offender can be strictly monitor , and we have increase funding for the probation service by £ 155 million a year . it be essential that every advantage be have from the late monitoring technology , isn ' t it ? Pithy and perfect — my right hon . friend be absolutely right . under the old technology , all that the so - call radio frequency tag could tell the probation service be whether that individual have leave the premise to which he have be bail or curfewe . the modern gps tag be far more effective , because they can indicate where that person have go , keep they under a tight rein . we have additional tag , include alcohol monitor tag to allow the court and probation service also to monitor alcohol where that be the root cause of the offending . be the evidence not clear that short prison sentence do not work , and that woman ' s centre , which deal with drug and alcohol abuse , mental health issue and so on , can be effective ? it would make a lot of sense to roll that out for the male population — it be cheap and it be well . I be delighted to hear that from the hon . Gentleman . we have to follow the evidence , which show that short sentence of immediate custody lead to a high reoffending rate than those where the sentence be suspend , albeit on tight condition , which might include curfew , an unpaid work order and potentially a rehabilitation requirement . why ? because if the offender fail to comply , the probation service can find they in breach and bring they back before the court , where they will then likely hear the clang of the prison gate . we will follow the evidence . we make no apology for use our custodial estate to lock up the most dangerous offender for long and take they out of circulation . but protect the public also mean ensure that those who would otherwise reoffend get off the conveyor belt of crime . Prison Estate Conditions what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the condition in the prison estate for the rehabilitation of offender . by the end of the spending review period , we will have invest nearly £ 4 billion to deliver an additional 20 , 000 modern prison place and ensure that the right condition be in place to rehabilitate prisoner , cut crime and protect the public . the key to effective rehabilitation be the provision of education and skill training , to increase a prisoner ' s employability and ensure that they can access employment upon release , alongside provide support for substance misuse , treatment and so on . we be also invest to improve rehabilitative space in prison , have deliver our employment hub , where prisoner can access job vacancy . we will renovate prison workshop through our HMP academy programme . no glass , just bar at the window ; mouse and rat ; faece in the gravy ; and sewage overflow regularly in his cell . this be not the start of a victorian novel , but the disgrace experience by my young constituent , who be lock in his share cell for 23 and a half hour a day , have never receive the vital specialist mental health support that he need . when can we expect such draconian condition at HMP Hull to end ? what appropriate step will the Minister take to ensure that people in prison experience rehabilitation , not the condition that my constituent face ? if the hon . Lady would like to write to I , I will be happy to look into that specific case . but in broad term , in the last financial year this Government invest £ 217 million in capital and maintenance spending , up from £ 149 million in 2010 - 2011 . that include , since 2020 , deliver £ 73 million of capital maintenance project across Yorkshire . security be not a dirty word in this context but be vital to create condition in which people can be safe and rehabilitate . we continue to work closely with the NHS on improve thing such as mental health support for those in prison , but I be happy to engage with she on this issue . unduly Lenient Sentence Scheme if the Government will make an assessment of the potential merit of extend the unduly lenient sentence scheme to include additional offence . in 2019 we expand the unduly lenient sentence scheme to include 14 new offence , include further child sexual offence and coercive or control behaviour . we have no immediate plan to extend the scheme far , but we keep it under constant review . I welcome the new Minister to his place ; his be an excellent appointment and I wish he every success . the fact that malicious wounding , actual bodily harm , burglary and even rape , when deal with in the youth court , do not come under the unduly lenient sentence scheme be plain wrong . will he please review that situation , which time and again let down the victim of those serious crime ? the unduly lenient sentence scheme be intend for use in serious case for offender sentence in the Crown court . the Attorney General have the power to refer a sentence to the Court of Appeal for review if they believe it be unduly lenient . a youth court can sentence a child to up to two year of detention only . where a child ' s offence be likely to attract a sentence of more than two year , the case must be pass to the Crown court for sentencing , where the scheme therefore apply . stiffening unduly lenient Crown court sentence be all very well , but there will still be delay in the system if there be backlog in prosecute in the court . up to 25 % of criminal barrister have leave the profession over the past five year , so what action be the Government take to address the exodus of criminal barrister ? in recent year the Government have invest an extra £ 141 million in criminal legal aid , which should expedite a solution to the situation . death by dangerous driving : sentencing if he will make an assessment of the impact of change in sentence guideline on cause death by dangerous driving on the length of sentence . the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 increase the maximum penalty for cause death by dangerous driving from 14 year to life imprisonment . in June 2023 , the independent Sentencing Council publish revised sentencing guideline for motor offence , include for cause death by dangerous driving . it be too early to assess the outcome of those change , but we regularly publish sentencing statistic on gov . uk . the Sentencing Council also monitor all guideline in accordance with its statutory duty . I welcome my hon . friend to his position . it be over a year since Parliament legislate to increase the maximum sentence for death by dangerous driving to life imprisonment . however , three member of my constituent Summer Mace ' s family be kill in a horrific incident , and in June the offender get only 10 and a half year . that be totally inadequate . as RoadPeace have show , far too many sentence be too short . will my hon . friend meet I to discuss those sentencing guideline , so that we can ensure that they reflect what Parliament actually legislate for ? I be very sorry to hear of the death of Paul Carter , Lisa Carter and Jade Mace in January 2023 in a collision cause by Aurelijus Cielevicius , and the devastating consequence for their family and friend . I know that my hon . friend have campaign hard on this issue , and I read his Adjournment debate early this month . sentencing be entirely a matter for our independent court , base on the fact of each case . in July 2023 , after Cielevicius be sentence , the revised Sentencing Council guideline for cause death by dangerous driving come into force , follow the increase of the maximum penalty introduce by the PCSC Act 2022 . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that far , should that be helpful . the man who be convict of cause death by careless driving when he kill my young constituent Gregg be sentence to only nine month in prison . however , because he be charge with cause death by careless driving , not dangerous driving , Gregg ' s family have no right to appeal under the Attorney General ' s unduly lenient sentence scheme . will the Minister agree to discuss this with the Attorney General and look into revise the scheme to include cause death by careless driving ? I be very sorry to hear the detail of that particular case . I will , of course , be very happy to raise it with the Attorney General . child in Custody : Education what step he be take to improve the provision of education for child in custody . we work closely with education provider to drive up standard of teaching and improve academic outcome . the curriculum offer to child in custody be need - lead and determine by individual aspiration , literacy and numeracy level , interest and sentence length . where education provision be inadequate , we will hold provider to account to ensure that child receive the education they need to turn away from crime . early this year , I visit Feltham young offender institution and witness at first hand the very challenging condition in which dedicated professional work with young people who have commit the most serious crime and have a very difficult start in life . back in 2016 , the Charlie Taylor review recommend that we move away from young offender institution to secure school . the Government fully accept his vision , yet seven year on not a single secure school have open . one have be build , but it have not admit any pupil . if the Government be serious about rehabilitate young offender and cut reoffende , when will they finally roll out secure school for those pupil ? in a previous life as a Minister , as it be , I have youth justice in my portfolio back in 2018 - 19 , and I have the opportunity to visit Feltham at that time . I work with Charlie Taylor on deliver those recommendation into practice . I be pleased to tell the hon . Lady that we anticipate the first secure school opening in 2024 . I welcome the new shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . education be vital to reduce violence , especially on the youth estate . however , violence on the youth estate be skyrocket . since last year , assault on staff have increase by 33 % . that put prison staff at risk in their workplace and increase the trauma experience by child and young people . it can also prolong their rehabilitation . how will the Minister use education and other method available to he to reduce that violence ? it be nice to be take question from the hon . Lady in her new role as shadow Minister , rather than when she use to question I in the Justice Committee . she be absolutely right to highlight the challenge of violence across the youth estate , which have be too high for too long , and we continue to work hard across all site to address it . among the measure put in place , we be ensure that each child receive a full need assessment , cover education , psychology , resettlement , health and behavioural support . education and skill play a vital part in help child and young people to get their life back on course , but that must be in the context of a secure environment , because security have to be the premise on which all those other benefit can be deliver . short Sentence suspension : Probation Service what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the suspension of short sentence on the probation service . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the suspension of short sentence on the probation service . to expand probation capacity , we have increase funding by £ 155 million a year to deliver effective supervision of offender in the community . in 2020 - 21 we recruit an additional 1 , 000 trainee officer , 1 , 500 more in the follow year , and 1 , 500 more in the year after that . this mean that offender who pose the high risk to community will receive robust supervision . successive Conservative Ministers have allow the criminal justice system to fall into its current parlous state , make many community , include in Cambridge , less safe . now they propose to shift the burden from an over - press prison service to an over - press probation service . can the Secretary of State guarantee that the money that should have be available to prison will be move to the probation service to allow it to keep our community safe ? the first point be not right ; since 2010 , the overall level of crime have fall by 40 % . as for the second point , reoffende have drop from about 32 % to about 25 % . the third point , on probation , be , with respect , a well one . as we move towards suspend sentence order , it be right for they to be robust and enforceable so that if people step out of line they can expect to hear the clang of the prison gate , and that be why I be engage with the leadership of the probation service . yesterday I also meet frontline probation officer , because I want to hear from they how we can ensure that their workload be manageable and they have the resource that they need to keep our community safe . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I echo the concern of the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and the British Independent Retailers Association , which fear that the scrapping of short sentence will only embolden retail criminal . the Secretary of State will know that far too many shop worker face be attack in shop across the UK , particularly as we approach the festive period . accord to the police , there have be a 24 % increase in shoplifting in the past year . can the Secretary of State assure we that the probation service can cope with the expect surge in retail crime , and ensure that those who work in shop will be protect and anyone who attack they will face the full force of the law ? those who behave in such an appalling way should expect to feel exactly that : the full force of the law . let I be crystal clear : those who pose a particular threat to individual can expect to hear the clang of the prison gate . those who commit offence while subject to an order — be it , for instance , a community order , a stalk prevention order or a domestic abuse protection order — can also expect to be outwith the presumption . through the use of tag , we can ensure that people who do not abide by stringent requirement — which , by the way , could include not go to a particular shopping precinct — can expect one outcome , and one outcome only : prison . I call the shadow Minister . in response to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , the Secretary of State say that he have recruit 1 , 000 additional probation officer , but in fact that recruitment campaign have result in 76 few probation officer between March last year and March this year . owe to the excessive workload , staff be leave in drove . the propose new presumption in favour of extended sentence and the extension of electronic monitoring will simply offload more pressure from prison on to the probation service , will it not ? what be the Government do to address these issue of excessive workload and the loss of probation staff ? on a point of detail , as of 30 September 2023 the increase on the previous year be 4 . 2 % for band 3 probation officer , 6 . 9 % for band 4 officer and 13 % for senior probation officer . the so - call attrition rate , or resignation rate , be also down . there be more probation officer , and more of they be remain in place . the reason that matter be the fact that experience count . this be an extremely difficult job , and make good judgment require wisdom and experience . we be invest in the probation service so that its officer can do their job on behalf of our community . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last Justice question , we have introduce a Criminal Justice Bill , which respond rapidly and robustly to the late criminal threat . it will include strengthen law to criminalise those who breach trust by take intimate image without consent ; broaden the offence of encourage and assist self - harm ; give judge the power to order offender to attend sentencing hearing ; and enable the probation service to polygraph - test more terrorist and sex offender . meanwhile , the new Sentencing Bill have public protection at its core , make the severe punishment available for the most dangerous offender , such as murderer who kill with sexual or sadistic conduct , to take they out of circulation forever . it will protect the public by break the cycle of reoffende to reduce crime . we have also welcome my hon . friend the Members for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) and for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) to the Front Bench . as I think the House have already observe , they will make a formidable contribution to public life . the Prime Minister and certain other senior Government figure have suggest that the european convention on human right should be disapplie in some asylum case , and the deputy chairman of the Conservative party , the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , have say that the Government should simply ignore last week ' s Supreme Court ruling . do the Justice Secretary agree ? the Government be confident that we can deliver on the priority of the british people while remain within the four corner of our international legal obligation . make no mistake , we be determined to ensure that our border be secure . this be a rule of law issue . it should not be the case that those who try to jump the queue and arrive illegally should derive some sort of advantage from that . we understand that clearly on the Government Benches and we will do everything we can to stop the boat . one of the primary reason for adjournment and reliste in magistrate court be a lack of train probation officer to carry out pre - sentence stand - down report . could the Minister outline what step he be take to address this so that court can get through caseload more speedily ? my hon . friend speak with great authority as a magistrate , and I know from my own experience as a practitioner how important stand - down report be . they provide the bench with information about the offender — their relationship situation , their record of previous conviction , their mental health problem and so on — so that the court can tailor a disposal that punish the offender but also progress their rehabilitation . we be work closely with the probation service to ensure that that resource be properly allocate so that we can have more stand - down report to ensure well justice on the fact of each case . I call the shadow Minister , Alex Cunningham . contrary to the claim of Ministers at every Question Time that they be get the court backlog sort out , they be not , and the pain just drag on for victim . the Crown court backlog reach a record 65 , 000 case at the end of June . nearly 5 , 000 of they have be wait for two year and 36 , 000 case have defendant on bail . why be thing still get bad ? I have to say , Mr Speaker , that God love a trier . yes , the backlog have go up . the hon . Gentleman will know that post covid and post the Criminal Bar Association strike , the backlog do increase . on top of that , this Government have crack down on crime with more police officer , and that have mean more people be charge and appear in court . we be address this with unlimited sitting day . we recruit 1 , 000 judge across all jurisdiction last year and we be do the same this year . we have invest in the court estate to improve resilience , and we have extend 24 Nightingale court to ensure that we have capacity . come on now — we know that the statistic tell a very different story . the Crown court remain in crisis , and what about the civil court ? the quarterly civil justice statistic from April to June 2023 show that the average time take for small claim and multi - fast - track claim to go to trial be 52 week and 78 week respectively . be it the same excuse for the crisis in the civil court ? since the Government have increase the amount of money spend on the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service , we have recruit judge across the jurisdiction to help in the civil court , increase the number of day that fee - pay judge can do from 30 day to 80 day a year , introduce regional virtual pilot to support London and the south - east , and invest in mediation . all of this be ensure that people have access to justice in a court system that be deal with high number of case than ever before . the Minister will be aware that approximately £ 1 million of taxpayer ' money be spend , include through legal aid , on finally deport the vile sex offender Yaqub Ahmed , whose crime be just unimaginable . will the Secretary of State and the Minister ensure that legal aid process be review and , importantly , dust off the previous plan to introduce waste cost order in immigration case so that lawyer who pursue these spurious case be prevent from do so ? as my right hon . friend will appreciate , I can not comment on individual case , but I can reassure she that the payment of wasted or unreasonable cost can already be order by the tribunal if it consider it appropriate . give the issue that she have raise , however , I would be more than happy to meet she to ensure that her concern be convey firmly to those responsible for the review . eight court have so far be name as contain reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — RAAC — and three of they be closed . the Government will not say which prison be affect , but will they guarantee that funding for RAAC removal will not come at the expense of exist maintenance scheme , give the huge backlog of repair in court and prison ? the hon . Gentleman be right about the eight court building , but that be in the context of an estate of over 300 building . it be important to note , however , that we have massively increase the budget for the court estate , and that enable we to do two thing . first , we can take on more project and also plan they because we have guarantee this over two year , mean that we can plan in a more efficient and effective way . the second issue so far as prison be concern be that separate consideration apply because the building be use for a whole range of different purpose ; there be the prison itself , but there be plenty of ancillary building . this be all be inspect in the normal way , and the budget be certainly there to effect remediation if require . last week I visit my local Co - op store in Hartburn , where I meet staff and Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers rep as part of respect for Shopworkers Week . there be around 867 assault on shop worker not each month , not each week but every single day . we can not go on like this . will my right hon . and learn Friend look again at what we can do to tackle this issue and deliver justice for shop worker ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . those people be on the frontline of society , act effectively in public to do an incredibly important public service . we have already move to ensure that the court can treat assault on shop worker as an aggravate factor when it come to sentencing . to be clear , this mean that , in appropriate case , the fact that a person have assault a retail worker can mean the difference between a non - custodial penalty and a custodial penalty , which be absolutely right . those who behave in such a cowardly way should expect all consequence . the rule of law be sacrosanct , isn ' t it ? yes . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that the judiciary must not make incendiary comment about Israel ? at Walsall magistrate court , a district judge recently acquit defendant who have vandalise a factory , believe it to be supply Israel , and be report to have tell they their action be " proportionate in comparison to the crime against humanity which they be act to stop . " do he agree that judge be suppose to uphold the law , not encourage its breach ? this bring our legal system into ill - repute , so will he take this from I as a complaint to the Judicial Conduct Investigations Office ? order . we be not mean to criticise the court , and I know that such a learn Gentleman will know well ; I be sure we can avoid any criticism . I simply note the question . plainly , I make no comment on the specific . I have hear my right hon . and learn Friend ' s point , and I will happily take it up with he subsequently . the Ministry of Justice have release its late quarterly statistic on death and self - harm in the England and Wales prison estate . the rate of self - harm incident among female prisoner go up by a stark 63 % compare with the same quarter last year , and there be an overall 24 % increase in self - inflict death . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the impact of the MOJ ' s policy on these increase across the prison estate ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight this , as every death in custody be a tragedy . we continue to do all we can to improve the safety of prisoner , both in that respect and in respect of reduce instance of self - harm . we be continue to deliver on our safety commitment outline in the prison strategy White Paper , include by introduce more ligature - resistant cell , fund a study to understand the extent of death , and roll out an emotional resilience and peer - support programme in six prison . of course , our staff be vital to this , and I take the opportunity to pay tribute to they ; we be invest to support they to continue to do that work . in the summer , the Government make a welcome announcement on ban zombie knife and machete and double the sentence for supply a knife to an under - 18 and for possess a knife with intent to cause harm . now we be in a new session , will the Secretary of State set out the timeline for bring forward legislation to make this happen ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend , who be a passionate and principled campaigner on the issue of public safety . these measure will find their way into the Criminal Justice Bill . I look forward to her support , which I know will be forthcoming . let we hope that hon . member right across the House will put public protection as one of their priority . new figure release by the Co - op Group show that a staggering 300 , 000 incident of shoplifting , abuse , violence and antisocial behaviour in Co - op store have be report this year alone . surely the good way to stop violence against shop worker be to make it a stand - alone offence , as request by the Labour party , the Co - op party and the USDAW trade union . it be important to establish what be already available to the police : section 39 on common assault , section 47 on assault occasion actual bodily harm and — heaven forbid — section 20 and 18 , which relate to more serious case of grievous bodily harm . plus , if an individual be convict on any of those ground , the court can — indeed , ought to — consider assault on a retail worker as an aggravating factor . as I have indicate , that can mean the difference between a non - custodial and a custodial penalty . we will keep these matter under review , but the central point be that before someone can go before the court , they have to be arrest . that be why I be delighted that we have more police officer than at any time in our history , ready to take the fight to those who assault shop worker . my right hon . and learn Friend have a terrific record on deal with slapp — strategic lawsuit against public participation — so he will understand how greedy lawyer encourage their billionaire client to crush their opponent by extend court case , drag they out and multiply they . what have not be take on board be that that also cost the taxpayer million of pound . I think those lawyer should have to meet those cost . with that in mind , will he publish the cost incur by slapp case ? no one in this House have do more than my right hon . friend to clamp down on this iniquitous behaviour , and I be pleased that we have be able to make some progress . he make a really important point : every day that be spend in court pursue ill - found and abusive litigation be time that could be spend on other matter in the public interest . I will certainly look into the interesting suggestion he make about publish the cost of that behaviour . after the Supreme Court ruling on Rwanda , the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) say that the Government should " ignore the law " and put plane in the air anyway . the Prime Minister have fail to distance himself from those comment . do that disappoint the Justice Secretary ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the answer I give a few moment ago . there be understandable righteous indignation about the situation that exist . we believe that we can comply and deliver our policy within the four corner of international law — that be our approach . however , those who arrive illegally threaten to corrode the rule of law , because that of itself send out a poor subliminal message that those who do so can act with impunity . that do not strengthen the rule of law . the Justice Secretary will know of the hard work undertake in this Parliament to bring the Desecration of War Memorials Bill into law . element of that Bill be subsume into the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , but will he now undertake to complete the job ? my hon . friend be one of two hon . member who have fight hard on this issue , and he do so from the position of have serve his country . it be completely iniquitous that people should seek to act in a way that desecrate war memorial . his specific point seem utterly compelling and I be happy to discuss it with he hereafter . the Justice Secretary be an experienced lawyer , for whom I have a great deal of respect . will he explain to the Prime Minister that follow the Supreme Court ' s judgment on Rwanda , merely to legislate that the fact on the ground in Rwanda be the opposite of what the Supreme Court find they to be will make no difference to the problem the Supreme Court have identify , and will simply make the Government a laugh stock ? I thank the hon . and learn Lady for her point . at the risk of harm her political career , the respect be entirely mutual . in a rule - of - law country , people can disagree with the decision of a court but they must respect it . we respect the ruling and of course we will abide by court order , but it be also right that we carefully consider what the Supreme Court say and seek to adjust appropriately . we will do what we properly and lawfully can do to stop the boat . that be our mission and the mission of the british people , and we will deliver on it . I welcome my right hon . and learn Friend ' s commitment to increase the use of tagging , where appropriate , to reduce the amount of reoffende . in do so , what plan do he have to include high - risk domestic abuser and , potentially in the future , those who be illegal drug user ? not for the first or last time , my hon . and learn Friend have get absolutely to the point . we have deliberately construct the policy so that if an individual present a significant threat to a particular individual — often a spouse or a partner — the presumption would not apply . that be critically important and I be happy to discuss that point with woman ' s aid and other relevant body . we be on the side of victim of domestic abuse and violence , and nothing that we do will cut across that important principle . support offender in practise their faith be regularly cite as play a key role in their rehabilitation in prison . however , as the Minister will know from my frequent correspondence with the chief executive of his Majesty ' s Prison Service , many prison either do not provide the facility require or actively hinder offender in practise their religion . HMP full Sutton have be bring to my attention as one such example . give its importance , will the Minister assure I that a full review of faith provision across the prison estate will be conduct and guarantee that no one will be deny the ability to freely practise their religion ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . he be absolutely right to highlight not only the right of people to practise their religion , but the important role that that can play for those individual in cope with prison life , rehabilitation and get on the straight and narrow when they come out . I be happy to engage with he directly on any specific case that he wish to bring up , and it be an issue that I be happy to look at . I thank the Courts Minister for his recent letter on recruitment and retention of legal adviser in Essex and the impact that that be have on court listing . although I know that he and I agree about the independence of the judiciary regard individual case , will he meet I to discuss what more might be do to fill the vacancy for legal adviser in Essex ? I be always happy to meet my right hon . friend . the Secretary of State have allude to the continue reduction in reoffende rate among those leave prison . do he agree that central to maintain confidence in the wide community be that the reoffende rate go down far still ? the hon . Gentleman make a simple but incredibly important point . we want to follow the evidence so that we protect the public . we will do so , on the one hand , by lock up the most serious offender for long and take they out of circulation , and , on the other , by cut offending . few crime mean a well protect public . that be the approach that we will take . yesterday , I meet former prisoner LJ Flanders who , while serve his sentence , devise a fitness regime that can be conduct in a cell with no special gym equipment . with the support of Bucks Association for the Care of Offenders , he have just run a two - week training programme in HMP Aylesbury to train other prisoner to provide coaching and mentoring of a similar style . will my right hon . friend please encourage everybody in his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service , particularly governor , to facilitate such course to reduce reoffende ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who know about what he speak . I pay tribute to he for his work in the criminal justice system . he highlight an example that sound extremely interesting . I would be happy to meet he to hear more about it and to see where we can take thing from there . International Development White Paper Mr Deputy Speaker , since my statement to the House on 18 July , the Government have consult extensively to secure evidence and idea on international development that will transform our world . I pay tribute to the team of 15 official who have work night and day and most of their weekend for nearly six month on this , under the leadership of Nick Dyer and Annabel Gerry , and to Geraldine Bedell and the Richard Curtis team who have help with the shorten version of the international development White Paper . we draw on the sharp and most expert mind from non - governmental organisation , academia , business , nearly 50 government around the world , and all political party in the House . I particularly wish to thank colleague across the House for their contribution to shape this White Paper . this be an area of policy that do not belong either to the Conservative party or to labour ; it be a british policy and commitment . as the whole House know , development have help transform the life of billion of people . the UK can be immensely proud of our distinct contribution to this incredible success story . two century ago , three quarter of the world live in extreme poverty . when I be bear , around half still do . by 2015 , when the world meet the millennium development goal , the proportion of a much large global population have fall to just 12 % . evidence show that development work , but it also show that we now need to think about how we do development . after decade of hard - won but persistent progress , we live in a world face a daunting set of challenge : a world that be see rise poverty , where progress be in retreat ; a world where the UN sustainable development goal be nearly all off track for 2030 ; a world where faith in multilateral institution be fade despite co - operation be desperately need ; a world face a climate crisis , grow conflict and the prospect of further pandemic ; a contested world , where unity and solidarity be increasingly important , yet ever more difficult to achieve . this White Paper set out a road map to 2030 , chart the path the UK must take to galvanise global attention and lead by example in the fight to end extreme poverty , tackle climate change and address biodiversity loss . when it come to international development , finance matter . the Government have be clear on our intention to return to 0 . 7 % of GNI when the fiscal circumstance permit , but the White Paper also make it clear that we will not achieve the sustainable development goal through business - as - usual official development assistance funding . we need a quantum leap in financing and investing , which only the private sector can provide . the private sector be an essential engine of development , give community the building block for economic independence . self - sufficiency be development ' s essential purpose , and our work with the UK private sector deliver back for taxpayer many time over . British Investment International , formerly know as CDC , be already a core part of the Government ' s offer on international development . it have an impressive track record , and now will go far and fast , invest in the hard place . as be suggest by the International Development Committee , to whom I pay tribute , BII will aim to make more than half of its investment in the poor and most fragile country by 2030 , while also enhance its transparency , cement its place as a world leader . the White Paper present our vision for much - need reform of the international financial system , mobilise great finance from the private sector and scale up the lending capacity of the international financial institution . the UK have pioneer the use of climate - resilient debt clause , enable vulnerable country to hold off on debt repayment follow an extreme weather event . together with Prime Minister Mia Mottley and other supporter of the Bridgetown initiative , we be drive reform of the multilateral development bank so that they can scale up financing for low and middle - income country . we will also work with institutional investor such as pension fund to plug the sdg ' s $ 3 . 9 trillion annual financing gap . international development and climate action be inseparable . climate change and nature loss be be feel everywhere , and their impact will only intensify over the next decade . it will be most acute in develop country , reverse fragile development gain , increase food price and compound insecurity and instability . to meet that challenge , we must mobilise more — and more reliable — finance . we will deliver on our pledge to provide £ 11 . 6 billion in international climate finance in the five year up to 2026 . we will ensure a balance between adaptation and mitigation financing and provide at least £ 3 billion to protect and restore nature . Britain ' s work on woman and girl be paramount . we can not understand development unless we see it through the eye of girl and woman . increase access to education , empower woman so that they can decide for themselves whether and when they have child , and end sexual violence be central to economic opportunity and growth . those right be universal and should be non - negotiable . the White Paper extend and reinvigorate that work . we will use research and diplomacy to end the preventable death of mother , baby and child . we will deploy policy and investment to defend and advance sexual and reproductive health and right . effective development be root in respectful partnership of equal , but the Government will continue to stand up for our value . we know that individual right , the rule of law and strong institution be essential to achieve sustainable development . take for example the work of the Westminster Foundation for Democracy , to which Members of Parliament make such a substantial contribution . it be the UK ' s lead champion of democracy globally . we be increase our support for its work so that we can support fair , more inclusive and more accountable democratic system around the world . we must also find well way to anticipate and prevent humanitarian crisis and the conflict that often drive they . conflict and instability be on the rise and hold back development : by 2030 up to two third of the world ' s poor will live in fragile and conflict - affect context . humanitarian need be at their high since 1945 , with twice as many people need assistance compare with five year ago . the result devastation be spread across affected region , as see at present in the Sahel and the middle east . the tragic event in Israel and Gaza bring home the humanitarian cost of conflict and violence , with woman and child most directly affect . I be therefore pleased to announce today that we will create a fund dedicate up to 15 % of our bilateral humanitarian spend to support resilience and adaptation alongside our delivery of humanitarian relief , which we expect to amount to £ 1 billion next year . when I visit family in east Africa suffer the bad drought in 40 year , it be clear that the current focus on immediate relief come at the cost of early thinking and building in resilience and adaptation for the future . the new fund will respond directly to that specific challenge . innovation be at the heart of our effort to transform life through sustainable growth . the wondrous creativity of science and technology can address problem that money alone will never solve . only by share research and innovate together can we make the breakthrough that our world need . the world have never be so intimately connect , nor our fate so closely entwined . although we can rightly be proud of all we have do to deliver international development , the UK and our global partner must redouble our effort give the challenge that we face to achieve those goal . we ask in the White Paper what the UK could do . we be tell to make a new development offer base on mutual respect , power by finance at scale , and support by a more responsive international system . we have listen : that be what the White Paper will deliver . the Prime Minister have launch the White Paper to do development more effectively and differently , and yesterday ' s global food security summit be an example of that . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for his statement , for advance sight of the White Paper , and for our frequent conversation about it since I be appoint to my post . the catastrophe in Gaza be a strong reminder not just of the need for humanitarian assistance and expertise , but of the heavy responsibility that we all face to play our part in the world through the painstaking hard yard of diplomacy , and of the crucial role of development in provide the hope that breathe life into any peace process . I thank the Minister for his personal effort to bring some energy and direction to this agenda again . in fact , I would go as far as say that I do not believe that the House would be in a position to consider a new White Paper be he not in post — a view that I think be share by many on the Opposition Benches . however , to have an honest conversation about where we be head , we need a frank assessment of where we have be . there be the mindless vandalism of the decision to take one of our most respected , influential contribution to the world — the partnership , think leadership and innovation — and trash the lot to deflect from a domestic crisis . there be the former Prime Minister who , shame by a young footballer into abandon his decision to allow child to go hungry in a pandemic , pull the rug out from under the poor people in the poor country . make no mistake : that cost live , but it also cost Britain its reputation as a gold - standard leader in the field . as the Minister say then , it be " a strategic mistake with deadly consequence . " — [ Official Report , 2 March 2021 ; Vol . 690 , c . 118 . ] he know that I admire his determination to speak out against those decision , and I know that he do not shy away from acknowledge the damage that they have do . although the former Prime Minister may be go , his second in command , whose signature be scrawl across those document , now sit in no . 10 . his short word at the start of the White Paper leave I in no doubt that , although his posture have change , his position have not . frankly , ask the man who sign off the devastation of this vital agenda , only to breathe new life into it again , be like call out the arsonist to put out the fire . for much of the agenda that the Minister set out today , he will have our support . the question be whether he will have that of his Prime Minister . the Minister be right to recognise that the major obstacle to eliminate extreme poverty be the grow challenge of climate change and debt , but the key be how to resolve it . the multilateral system be strained — much of the world ' s debt be owe to private creditor , and over recent decade China ' s influence have grow — so we strongly welcome the recognition in the White Paper that Britain ' s approach to development must sit in a multipolar world . however , multilateral aid will fall to just 25 % of aid spending by 2025 . although the commitment in this White Paper be welcome , the Minister be prioritise multilateralism while his Department prioritise bilateralism . which be it ? we have a strategy at odd with the ambition . the second problem be that to make the strategy work , the Minister will need to convince the world that Britain be a long - term reliable partner with serious commitment at the high level of Government , yet his own White Paper be silent on protect the overseas development assistance budget from raid from other Departments , after 30 % have be raid in the past year by the Home Office alone to pay for spiral hotel bill and the cost of this Government ' s chaos . what chance do he have of convince the world that this area be a priority for the government if he can not convince his colleague around the Cabinet table ? I suspect that on the central issue — the need to deal with debt and finance constraint that block action on climate — he and I have more in common than he do with most of they . there be much to welcome in the White Paper , but access to finance for many of the most heavily indebted country be ultimately unachievable . he be embrace some of the new idea on finance , but when it come to the central issue of debt , where be the fresh thinking ? the outsized role of the City of London compel we to do more . now be the time not to cling to exist strategy , but to leave no stone unturned . the problem of climate finance and debt for middle - income country enable we to focus on low - income country and the core task of eliminate extreme poverty , but there be far too little in the White Paper about how that can be achieve . we welcome the focus on conflict , but the route out of poverty lie not just in access to finance and in function economy , but in self - sustain health , education and welfare system design and run by the people in those country . what can he do to reassure the House that that be not a second - order issue ? finally , the Minister and I have discuss the central importance of woman and girl many time . they have be among the big loser of the decision of recent decade . empower they be the big untapped driver of growth in the global economy , and there be no way of meet the sustainable development goal without close that shameful gap . that be why they must run like a thread through the whole agenda — not just in addition to it , and not a few page in a document . every single decision that come across his desk must consider whether it do more to empower and enable woman and girl to succeed , or less . I welcome and support the Minister ' s commitment to this agenda , but without the political backing , without the budget and without the priority in Government , he will not succeed . he be far more alive to the scale and nature of the problem that Britain and the world face than most of his colleague , but the challenge of this era demand an end to old way of thinking and an embracing of the new . I know he be open to it , but be his government ? I thank the hon . Lady for her co - operation and her kind personal remark . she will know that , in order to get buy - in from our friend and expert around the world and from the civil service , the White Paper need to run to 2030 . in the unlikely event that my party be not in government after the next election , any other Government would , I hope , build on it to make it a huge success . I note the hon . Lady ' s remark about the merger of DFID into the Foreign Office . my task , which the Prime Minister give I , be to try to make the merger work . that mean there need to be an ability within Government to focus on global public good and deliver they into the 2030 . that be what I be try to do . she rightly ask how we get the balance right between multilateralism and bilateral funding . the answer be that we use either , depend on what deliver for our taxpayer and what deliver result on the ground . that be the yardstick ; there be no ideology . we go with what work and what be good . the hon . Lady point out the increase in spending in other Departments of ODA money and the development budget . it be true that that have go up , but every penny be spend within the rule lay down by the OECD Development Assistance Committee . we bring in the innovation of the ODA star chamber in Whitehall , co - chair by the Development Minister and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury . there be already clear evidence of that ratchet up the quality of ODA , as the hon . Lady would wish . the hon . Lady talk about access to finance for poor country , which be incredibly important . mitigation project in middle - income country be easy by contrast ; when it come to poor country and adaptation , it be much more difficult . she will see the emphasis in the White Paper on accept the advice from the Select Committee on increase the amount that British International Investment do in poor country . she will notice , too , the emphasis on social protection , and the fact that 62 % of the budget will now be spend in fragile and conflict state . finally , the hon . Lady ask about debt , where she be right that we need to do far more . it be absurd that a country such as Ghana can borrow only for seven or eight year , yet our child can get mortgage for 30 year . Ghana borrow at 7 % , and our child borrow at 2 % . that be clearly completely wrong , but there be a lot of new thinking . she will have see the climate resilient debt clause launch by Britain and the work we be do on the G20 common framework to increase access for country . it be also important to ensure that the private sector be bind into debt settlement when they affect sovereign state . I welcome the White Paper and its focus on use ODA to leverage private sector investment in the way that my right hon . friend have describe . whether the MENTARI programme for energy transition in Indonesia or the guarantee that the UK provide to the African Development Bank on climate finance , do he agree that it be the combination of aid and british business that be a real force multipli in this area ? my right hon . friend know a great deal about this area from his past ministerial post , and he be absolutely right . the key trick be to secure the status money , whether provide by the multilateral bank or the development finance institution , and to marry it with the private sector and the $ 60 trillion of pension fund out there . if we can marry the two , de - risk through use that status money , and show pension manager what the real risk and the scale of the return be , we can achieve the holy grail of get enormous amount of more money into climate finance , mitigation and adaptation , which be what the Bridgetown agenda be all about . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the Minister have consult widely , and he truly have a refreshingly collaborative cross - party approach . we in the SNP broadly welcome the tone of it and some of the detail around mutual respect , listen to local partner , the recognition of civil society and the potential role of diaspora community . however , the Minister will not be surprised that we want he to go far , and I will list a few of the thing I would like to hear more about . SNP colleague will have more to add on that . the first and probably the most important thing be the fact that there be no concrete recommitment to 0 . 7 % , as recommend by the International Development Committee . in the entire document of 154 page , there be one mention of 0 . 7 % , where the White Paper state that the Government will recommit to it " once the fiscal situation allow . " if the fiscal situation currently allow for tax cut , I would say that that moment have arrive . the new Foreign Secretary be instrumental in get we to 0 . 7 % in the first place , so I hope that he and the Minister will expedite that intention . secondly , there be no recommitment to the restoration of programme that have be cut since 2021 , include in Yemen , Syria , Somalia and South Sudan , all of which have cut of more than 50 % , take several million pound of their support away . those nation be all suffer significant repercussion from the climate crisis and the fallout from conflict . although I be pleased that woman and girl and gender equality be to be put at the centre of bilateral funding , stakeholder have say to I this morning that it be short of the transformative approach espouse by other , include the Scottish Government . let we not forget that the cut I just mention extend to girl ' education programme , which be estimate to have result in 700 , 000 few girl receive an education . that be one of the great scandal of our lifetime . finally , I be surprised that there be nothing in the White Paper about public perception of international aid and how we can challenge and change it . I have my own thought on that , but if most right - think people understand the role that their Government and their predecessor have play in some of these country over century , and the ongoing legacy of that , they would understand that we have moral obligation . I know the Minister agree , so I would appreciate his assurance that the omission of that point be simply an oversight . I look forward to continue with the collaborative approach that he have bring to the role . I thank the hon . Lady for her party ' s collaboration and for the tone and content of what she say . she mention that the 0 . 7 % figure do not feature extensively in the White Paper , but the White Paper be about do development in a different way . we be ratchet in , through these new mechanism , billion and billion of pound , which make a huge difference . in many way , it dwarf the difference between the 0 . 51 % or 0 . 52 % that we be spend at the moment , and the 0 . 7 % . she will have see at the time of the autumn statement last year that the Treasury estimate of when the two fiscal test would be satisfied be 2028 - 29 — in March , it be 2027 - 28 . all of we hope that the two test will be satisfied as soon as possible . as far as I be aware , there be no difference between the policy of the Government and that of the official Opposition on the restoration of the 0 . 7 % target . she talk about cut in programme , but the White Paper explain how many of the programme will be increase . she specifically mention South Sudan . as the budget be now in much well shape , next year the bilateral programme spending in South Sudan will increase from £ 47 . 9 million to £ 110 million , which be an increase of 130 % . the kenyan bilateral programme spending will increase by 225 % and the jordanian one will increase by 130 % . so we be now able to do more through our bilateral programme . she ask in which area we would be specifically restore funding where cut have be make ; she will see in the White Paper that the International Citizen Service be set to return and our aid match will increase . as for the humanitarian work we will do next year , we expect to spend £ 1 billion on humanitarian relief , plus we have the new resilience and adaptation fund , which will produce an extra 15 % on that . the White Paper be long and to many of we it be a most exciting read . a short form be available — I have a copy here — as I mention . thank to the Richard Curtis team , it be also an excellent read . she chide I for not have make the point about civil society and the platform , but I be delighted to tell she that although I do not mention it in the statement , it be in there ; UKDev — UK International Development — be a platform to achieve precisely what she say need to be achieve in that bridge between civil society and Government and state work . may I push back gently on what be say by the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , because many conservative Members be passionate about this issue , have be supportive of the Minister through thick and thin and really welcome this White Paper ? we be hope that it will be a stepping stone to 0 . 7 % ODA spend . do my right hon . friend agree that there be a symbiotic relationship between our economy and our security , and that our security be dependent on stability abroad ? when we step back from help fragile state , that void be too often fill by authoritarian regime pursue a very different agenda . my right hon . friend be right on that , and of course he be one of the 26 Conservative Members who vote not to cut the 0 . 7 % . I hope that he will be energise by the alternative mean we have find — the multiplier to ratchet in enormous amount of money . he be right in what he say about the link between defence , development and diplomacy . when he get a moment to read to read this White Paper , he will be enthuse by the line it be take . the right hon . Gentleman , my constituency neighbour , know that I admire much about the mission he have set out in this White Paper , but chapter 3 need to say a lot more about the money . he could have say more about double the fraction of the special drawing right we share , as Japan be do , which would have provide an extra £ 4 billion of development assistance . he could have say more about use the money we get back from the European Investment Bank to invest in build a big World Bank in order to unlock $ 200 billion of concessional lending over the decade ahead . he could have say more about lead a global initiative to keep the interest rate on special drawing right down so that the International Monetary Fund remain as lender of last resort , rather than China . those be practical step that we could work on together — otherwise we end up with all mission and no model , which will not help the world ' s poor . if the right hon . Gentleman read with care the chapter to which he refer , he will see that it be one of the most brilliant chapter in it — that be my biased opinion . the reason for that be that we have in Washington an extraordinary team of young and brilliant official who have enormous influence in the World Bank , and he be a considerable expert on this area . as for the multiplier and make sure that we sweat the balance sheet of these multilateral bank to ratchet in huge amount of more money , he will see a great deal to please he . if these reform be implement , as I believe they will be , drive hard by Britain through the multilateral sector , we will see a vast increase in funding . as for what he say about the sdr , use they creatively be something we be keen to do . he will recall that at the spring meeting the Chancellor of the Exchequer announce that Britain would use its sdr to the tune of £ 5 . 3 billion to elevate the two IMF fund that directly deal with poverty and international development . " People , planet , prosperity " be sum up entirely in this document , and I commend my right hon . friend on the White Paper , particularly chapter 5 , which I be passionate about . build on chapter 3 , it be vital that we accelerate the transition and support the Bridgetown initiative . country be get terribly frustrated that although the talk be do and the UK be exceptional , there be a need to make sure that bank be get the money to the people so that the project can deliver for people , prosperity and planet . I thank my right hon . friend for the tremendous contribution she have make on the matter she be address . chapter 5 directly address tackle climate change and biodiversity loss , and deliver economic transformation , and I be glad it have her approval . chapter 3 deal with mobilise the money and what I describe in my response to my right hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Dominic Raab ) , the former Deputy Prime Minister , as the " multiplier " and how we ratchet in private sector money . those will make a fantastic difference and we also have to make sure that this money reach the poor people in the world . Britain ' s role in the G7 , in these international organisation , have always be to focus on the poor people in the world . we be proud of do that and the House would expect we to do it . this White Paper amplify that mission . I call the Chairperson of the Select Committee on International Development . let I start by give my huge congratulation to the Minister . I hope that the whole House have recognise his personal involvement and the tenacity with which he have get this document out . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I also congratulate our civil servant , who for the past three year have be do an amazing job in challenge circumstance . I really hope that this White Paper re - establish our position on the international stage . I particularly welcome the embedding of localism ; more money to the poor ; debt relief ; and the focus on atrocity prevention . the White Paper outline several initiative aim at increase the amount of climate finance available for vulnerable country such as small island development state , which be welcome . the Minister reference biodiversity loss a couple of time in his statement , but will he explain why no specific mention be make in the White Paper of the loss and damage fund , which I predict will be at the centre of COP28 in the come week ? I thank the Chair of the International Development Committee and , through she , all of its member , who bring their expertise and enthusiasm to this subject with eloquence and skill . she mention the importance of debt relief and localism , and she be absolutely right on that . she also mention the work on atrocity prevention , which we have particularly be do in Sudan since the crisis emerge there . that work be very important and we be find new way of amplify it . what she say about biodiversity may well be true . the White Paper run to 148 page . if she and I have our way , it would have be long , but we have to draw a line somewhere and I yield to no one on the importance of the point she make about biodiversity . she will know that there have be argument about loss and damage , and a hold position have now be secure , ahead of the COP . that be very important , but loss and damage must do two thing . it must get a broad spectrum of where the money be come from , otherwise we will just be reorient it within the international development budget and that will be rob Peter to pay Paul — there be no sense in do that . the other thing be that it must bring in a wide group of country , not just the narrow OECD one that account for aid — it must be wide than that . those two thing be require to make loss and damage work . I very much welcome this White Paper , which reiterate the importance of eliminate gender - base violence . last week I work with parliamentarian from across the Commonwealth , thank to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and my right hon . friend ' s Department , and we resolve that there be a real need for international leadership to effectively challenge what be still call cultural norm — thing such as force marriage , female genital mutilation and rape . will he join our call for eliminate gender - base violence to be at the heart of the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Samoa next year ? my right hon . friend make a very interesting point about the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Samoa next year ; I will take that away and see what we can do on the matter . Gender - base violence , for the reason she have often say , be central to what we be do . we can not understand all these matter unless we see international development through the eye of girl and woman , so she be absolutely right about that . on gender - base violence , she will be well aware of the work lead by my noble Friend Lord Ahmad in the other place , which he continue to do with great vigour and success . I welcome the White Paper , but I want to put on record very clearly that it be lukewarm and tepid . it show how much wreckage have be do in the last three year . I welcome the Minister move it forward , but we be not move forward enough . I have three short question . first , the Minister refer to the Prime Minister ask he to try to make the merger work . we all know it have be a disaster . it be in the press last week that there be no rationale or reason for it to have happen in the first place . I would like to know why there be no thought put behind restore that separate Department , because it be world - class , and the world look to it for leadership . secondly , the Minister talk about ODA be legal . it might be legal , but one third of the budget — over £ 3 . 7 billion — be be spend on domestic issue of asylum seeker , not on extreme poverty , which he just say be a priority . lastly , to reiterate the point make by the Chair of the International Development Committee , the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , loss and damage be not mention . two year ago in Scotland , we be world - lead , with the first pledge make by the Scottish Government . when I be at COP27 last year , the UK Government ask I to go and speak to partner on this . I be happy to do that when I be at COP28 in two week ' time . in term of where the money need to come from , we need to get behind the Make Polluters pay programme , which be across the world and be about the large oil and gas company that be most responsible for fossil fuel . if we have collective support from this Government and government around the world , we will find the money . on the hon . Gentleman ' s last point about loss and damage , I set out the position of the Government . some progress be make against expectation a couple of weekend ago . expand the pool from which the money come — the payer — perhaps in the way he suggest and try to find a deep pool than just the development budget be extremely important . the hon . Gentleman ' s second point be about the percentage of the development budget that go to pay the first - year cost of asylum seeker . he will know that that be absolutely part of the rule on the way in which the budget be administer . we would be ask for a change in the OECD Development Assistance Committee rule , which be very difficult to achieve , as we have to get 30 country to agree . we decide not to do that . we do get an extra £ 2 . 5 billion out of the Treasury to compensate for it , and he will have notice that the figure be spend on that have be quite sharply reduce over recent month . the hon . Gentleman talk about the merger . my view on the merger before I enter Government be fairly lurid , but surely the right thing to do now be to focus on whether we can create an entity that will deliver the global public good we all support for the 2030 . if we can , that will be build on when we have two Departments . I notice that the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , who speak for the official Opposition , be nod at those remark . I congratulate my right hon . friend . this be a comprehensive document that contain some really important strategy . I particularly pay tribute to he for the section on biodiversity , which he know I regard as enormously important for a variety of reason . climate change and the restoration of nature be all part of an essential task that the world face over the come year . my right hon . friend mention civil society , which play a really important part in all aspect of development . he know of my involvement in and support for one of Africa ' s lead conservation NGOs , which do valuable work on the ground in Africa . what route will be available for that organisation and other civil society organisation in the develop world to access the support set out in this White Paper ? what channel should they be use ? I thank my right hon . friend for his comment about the importance of nature and biodiversity , which be very prominent in the White Paper . he ask how civil society can access support . the section of the White Paper about the new platform , UKDev , which I hope he will read with interest , talk about engagement with civil society , but there be a number of programme that meet his suggestion , include the UK Aid Match programme . where good charity be use their own money , if the taxpayer put similar amount of money alongside that , we be get two for one — we be get double the result for the taxpayer ' s money . I echo the word of thank to the Minister for his assiduous engagement , which be incredibly welcome . there be a lot to welcome in this White Paper , include the focus on the sdg and the climate crisis . from our conversation , he will know that the Liberal Democrats continue to have concern about the fact that we be not immediately return to 0 . 7 % and about the restoration of the Department , because this be not just about money — on that we agree ; it be about culture . I meet an official in one of our east african embassy who tell I that , at the moment , the d in fcdo be silent . while no one would question the Minister ' s commitment to this , it must go beyond one man . what be he and his Department do to change the culture within the fcdo , so that the d be no long a whimper but a roar ? I think the d be a good deal less silent than it be . I thank the hon . Lady for what she have say . on the immediate return of the money , she be right ; that be the state policy of the Government and , I think , of the official Opposition . on restore the Department , I draw her attention to what the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) and the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , have say , which be that they have an open mind on this , and they be try to see where we get to by the time there be a general election , be they to come into government . if we can produce something that be well than the two separate Departments and deliver global public good in the 2030 , that might well be see by everyone as a step forward . the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) be right about the cultural point . to make a merger work — there be no such thing as a merger ; one side win and one side lose , as I learn many year ago in the City of London — the culture be very important . if development practitioner and expert be respect by the traditional British Foreign Office and they work together , as they have do on put this White Paper together , that be a very great strength indeed . one reason the sdg be off track be that they have not to date recognise that leave someone behind , whether out of education , a job , healthcare or otherwise , simply on account of their religion or belief mean they will be poor . discrimination and persecution be driver of poverty , affect million globally . I warmly congratulate the Minister on listen and include clear recognition of this in several place in the White Paper , but word need to be turn into action . what action be plan to ensure that religious minority be take into account in the design of development assistance programme and in the forthcoming review of the sdg ? I be very glad that my hon . friend — who be , after all , the Government ' s envoy on these matter — have already read the White Paper so assiduously . she will , as she say , have note that there be a clear commitment to do what she set out , and I have every confidence that work with she , the Government will be able to advance that important agenda . I also add my congratulation and broad support for the progress in the White Paper , but may I draw the Minister ' s attention to the position in Gaza , particularly in relation to humanitarian relief ? on top of the 13 , 000 civilian death , half of whom be child , nearly all power plant , hospital , and water desalination and sewage plant have be destroy . do the Minister agree that 20 to 30 truck of humanitarian assistance a day be a drop in the ocean compare with the 450 a day that be be deliver previously , and that what be really need be a ceasefire and a peace process result in a safe and secure palestinian and israeli state ? I think everyone be pray that a peace process will start as soon as possible . we need to get a political track , and as the hon . Lady will know , we be press for humanitarian pause to achieve what she want we to achieve . I provide a statement to the House last week , and indeed the week before ; both go on for an hour and a half and involve 70 member ask question , so I do not wish to try Mr Deputy Speaker ' s patience by address that point directly . however , in the White Paper , the hon . Lady will be able to see Britain ' s commitment to humanitarian relief . the White Paper be a great blueprint for the UK to once again be a global leader in the fight against antimicrobial resistance , but as my right hon . friend know very well , we can not do this alone . will he work with his global counterpart and use the White Paper as a platform ahead of the UN General Assembly high - level meeting on AMR , so that we can build the global consensus to tackle it head - on ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of AMR , and we certainly aspire to be a global leader in that area . as he know , I speak about AMR when I be in New York early this year , and we be guide specifically by Sally Davies , the master of Trinity College Cambridge and former chief medical officer , who be an expert on this matter . AMR be now the world ' s third big killer after stroke and heart attack , and we will be prioritise it in the way that my hon . friend suggest . there be a welcome change of tone in the White Paper — the language about partnership , for example , will not be unfamiliar to those of we who have work with the Scotland - Malawi partnership for many year . however , in all the " Britain be great " language , I can not see much recognition of the incredible work that have be do over many year by the devolved administration , particularly the Scottish Government , who have ambition far to the UK Government ' s on the empowerment of woman and girl and , indeed , loss and damage . can the Minister confirm that the work of the devolved Administrations in international development , and particularly the work of the Scottish Government , be recognise , accept and value by the UK Government , give that they count that spending towards the ODA target ? first , I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution to the White Paper , and for bring the expertise that he deploy in the International Development Committee to bear on it . we do indeed consult the devolved administration ; I myself have , I think , two very useful discussion with the Government of Scotland . as the hon . Gentleman know , I share his view that the work Scotland have do in place such as Malawi be highly effective . this outstanding White Paper focus on a locally lead approach to development because , as the Minister have say , co - operation and partnership be the way forward . as chair of the Westminster Foundation for Democracy , I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s commitment to increase grant in aid to the WFD ' s partnership for fair , more inclusive , and accountable democratic system around the world . for the benefit of my right hon . friend and the House , may I also highlight that the Cabinet Office ' s conflict , security and stability fund recently score all 103 of its successful bidder , and the WFD come top ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work he do as chair of the Westminster Foundation for Democracy . he will know that the team that put together the White Paper look carefully at what the WFD do , and recognise the unique contribution it make , support as it be across the House and in the other place . I be very glad that , follow the public accountability process — which , as my hon . friend know , be go on at the moment — we expect to be able to substantially reinforce the funding for the WFD . like my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , our foreign affair spokesperson , I welcome many aspect of the White Paper . however , as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on afghan woman and girl , I be interested in the case study in the paper that state that the Government " will invest far to support woman ' s full participation in all political dialogue " . I place on record my thank to the Foreign Affairs Select Committee for invite former Afghan MP and Deputy Speaker Fawzia Koofi to appear before it . what step be the Minister go to take to ensure that full participation ? be he speak to afghan female leader here and in Afghanistan , and how be that happen in the context of budget cut in the region ? as the hon . Lady know , next year , we will increase bilateral funding to Afghanistan to £ 151 million . we be able to do that because the budget be much more carefully target and be now properly cultivate to deliver result . on the subject of education and of the treatment of woman and girl in Afghanistan , which be absolutely abhorrent , we do everything we can through various mechanism , include the Afghanistan World Bank trust fund , to boost those important objective . as the hon . Lady would expect , we focus on try to win result with that money — which be pay by the british taxpayer — in the good way we possibly can . as this excellent paper set out , the rise in autocratisation , the rise in humanitarian need , and the row - back of woman ' s right be all terrifying . they be often link , and it be woman ' s voice that be be silence across the world . a woman ' s right to education , to employment and to contraception be basic , fundamental right . do my right hon . friend agree that if we really care for the world ' s most vulnerable woman , we should set aside our party political difference in this House , and get behind this White Paper and make sure its objective be deliver for woman ? my right hon . friend speak with great wisdom ; from what we have hear today , her final point be clearly be achieve , which be very welcome . what she say about woman ' s voice be silence and their fundamental right be fetter be , I fear , absolutely right , and the White Paper address that head - on . we be find way of stop impunity and call to account those people who abuse human right in a number of new way that target accountability , and which I know my right hon . friend — who chair the all - party parliamentary group on Sudan and South Sudan — welcome . I thank the Minister for his important statement and White Paper . he have state that humanitarian need be at their high level since 1945 , and have also rightly state that the devastating event in Israel and Gaza bring home the humanitarian cost of conflict , which be so powerfully express by my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) . he will agree that humanitarian and development co - operation be key to british foreign policy , so could he outline the Government ' s commitment to support the ongoing work of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency and the important development and humanitarian work in the middle east , particularly with UNRWA have lose so many staff in Gaza ? that ongoing work be need , both now and for the long term . the hon . Lady make an extremely good point about the increase in humanitarian need — as she rightly , say , it have increase significantly — that I set out in my statement . that be why we have find £ 1 , 000 million to allocate in a budget for tackle humanitarian need next year . if she have a chance to look at the White Paper , she will see that it include the resilience adaptation fund , which be design to ensure that when crisis take place , we can do thing such as provide for great irrigation , water retention and reservoir capacity in a drought , so that in the event that such crisis take place again — which , alas , happen all too often — their impact be not as great as before . the hon . Lady ask specifically about UNRWA . as we know , a very large number of UNRWA humanitarian worker have lose their life , along with other , in the Gazan conflict . any attack and any loss of life by a humanitarian worker be deeply to be regret . those be people who have put themselves in harm ' s way for fellow member of humanity . they be unarmed and just try to do good to their fellow citizen . on the humanitarian need overall , climate change have particularly exacerbate that , and it be of course the poor who be hit first and hard , as the White Paper emphasise . the lack of water , sanitation and hygiene facility in develop country particularly affect woman , especially during childbirth , when they be routinely prescribe prophylactic antibiotic , and a great number of woman suffer from urinary tract infection when toilet facility be absent . what discussion will the Minister have with partner at COP28 to further the wash — water , sanitation and hygiene — agenda ? I anticipate , along with my colleague , have many such discussion , and not only at COP but in other fora . my hon . friend be entirely right that the absence of water and hygiene facility hit girl in particular and stop many from go to school . he will know that education can not wait — an international fund strongly support by the british taxpayer , to which we allocate £ 80 million early this year — be able directly to help people catch up in conflict in that way . we want they to go to school and they often can not do so , for the reason he have give , and education can not wait try to alleviate that directly . I welcome the White Paper and commend the Minister for his persistence on this issue . do he agree that , in order to maintain public support for programme such as those outline in the White Paper , we need to clamp down vigorously on any misappropriation of fund — in the past that have happen in some of these nation — so that the money go to those who need it , not those who have easy access to it ? the hon . member be right to make it clear that corruption be the cancer in international development spending . that be why we always ensure that , if there be any hint of that , we intervene immediately to stop it . it be also one of the reason why we so seldom work directly through budget support , where we can not track so easily the way taxpayer ' money be be spend , but allocate very directly in a way that we — and , more importantly , the Independent Commission for Aid Impact — can properly hold to account . I , like the Minister , find this White Paper to be an enlightening and exciting read . it go a long way to set out our stall for what we want to do on international development , and I commend the civil servant and special adviser for their work on it . it identify localism , partnership and transparency as be at its core , but could the Minister just say a little more about mobilise finance through British International Investment , and whether more risk need to be take in less economically develop country ? as chair of a group support by HALO and of the conservative Friends of International Development , I also welcome the focus on conflict prevention and the opportunity to build resilience and adaptation . could the Minister please say a little more about that , and how this fund be go to work to help in those area ? I be not remotely surprised that my hon . friend have already read the whole paper — all 148 page . it be two page short than the White Paper produce in 2009 , but I beg to suggest that it be a rather well read . on BII , we have take the advice of the Select Committee , recognise that it could do more in the poor and most difficult country . BII be invest in a port in Somalia , which , as he will understand , be quite a gritty thing to do , but we will see the funding to the poor country from BII rise in the period to 2030 from about 38 % to 50 % . that be a very significant increase , and one that the Select Committee have urge we to embrace . HALO be a brilliant charity that do work far beyond just deal with high explosive , and we give it our strong support . the White Paper ' s focus on fragile and conflict - affect state be to be welcome , but the Minister will know that , due to their very nature , these can be the most difficult place to operate in . will he commit to report annually to the House so that we can monitor progress on the strategy ? conflict - affect and fragile state be indeed the most difficult place in which to operate , but they be also two of the most important type of place in which to operate . the hon . member will be interested to know that , while over half of the development budget go to the least develop country , something like 62 % go to fragile and conflict - affect state . there be no doubt that the Select Committee and ICAI will ensure that the focus he request be maintain . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and the White Paper . have have just one or two month to speak to my constituent , I know that many of they feel a real sense of dismay about the lack of global action and national leadership on these issue . the welcome return to the focus on the development goal and recognition of the importance of co - ordinate action on the cause and consequence of climate change globally will go down very well with many of my constituent . although I welcome the recognition of the challenge pose by the barrier to finance and the burden of debt mention in the White Paper and the Minister ' s remark , I fear that a lack of ambition in this area may undermine some of the goal set out today . can the Minister commit to bring forward in due course further legislative action to ensure that we tackle that burden appropriately , include on private finance , and so have the real ambition we need to see on this agenda ? ambition be not lack , but drive these thing forward take an enormous amount of time and be subject to international co - operation , as the hon . Member suggest . however , if he look at british leadership on climate resilient debt clause , for example — we introduce they and UK Export Finance , which be the export credit guarantee department of the British Government , be champion they — he will see that these clause make an enormous difference . for example , if the Government of Ghana be hit by a pandemic , they need all their liquidity to look after their own citizen , but they have to pay interest and capital on their debt . what these clause mean be that they would get a two - year window during which they can spend their liquidity on their own citizen . that be a small but vital and very impactful innovation . Britain have produce these clause , and we have do the right thing on that . the Minister be absolutely right to say that international development and climate change be inseparable , and I commend he for his work in this area . however , many of my constituent have write to I to express frustration about how little the Government be do at home to attain the sustainable develop goal , and they rightly ask how we can ask other country to do what we be not do ourselves . so what do the Minister think I should say to my constituent who be so concerned about the absence of any measure in the King ' s Speech against fossil fuel and about tackle poverty at home ? the hon . and learn Member will have see the huge commitment that Britain have make through the Green Climate Fund internationally . I think that we can be very proud of the leadership that we be give through the green climate fund , of which we be now the co - chair . on UK achievement of the sdg , she may recall that in 2019 there be an audit of how Britain be do . Britain come out very well from that audit , and we will of course have a further audit in due course . I very much welcome the Minister ' s commitment to ensure that woman and girl have the same opportunity within the labour market as man . that could potentially add trillion of pound more to global GDP in 2025 . what step will and can the Minister take to ensure that woman and girl internationally have the mean necessary to improve the society they live in and to accelerate their development , which we all wish to see ? the former Foreign Secretary unveil Britain ' s new woman and girl strategy in Sierra Leone this year . it be a very good read — if I may add it to the hon . member ' s read on international development . I be not an unalloyed fan of the merger , as he know , but when I get back into the Government I see that the Foreign Office have completely internalise the importance of put girl and woman right at the centre of everything we do in this area , and it be to be commend for that . the Minister be exactly right to say that little development happen in the absence of security . speak in 2014 , before he join the Government and during Israel ' s Operation Protective Edge , he say that a ceasefire in Gaza should be make permanent before talk move on to address wide issue in the middle east peace process . do he now agree that talk address the underlie grievance of the moderate would be part of a successful counter - insurgency campaign , part of bring about great security , and hence would foster international development in the middle east ? the quote that the hon . Gentleman find from 2014 be make in very different circumstance , but he be right to say that development will almost always fail where there be no security . indeed , as Sir Paul Collier memorably say , conflict be " development in reverse " . on the middle east and Gaza — that be not , of course , the subject of the statement , Mr Deputy Speaker — the soon we can move to a political track in the region , at the United Nations and in the international Assemblies , and start work on what a future two - state solution would look like , with a state for both Israel and Palestine , the well . that conclude the statement on the international development White Paper . I thank the Minister for yet another marathon question and answer session . Veterans Welfare Services with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish to update the House on the work that the Government be do to ensure that our welfare service for veteran be fit for the future . under this Prime Minister , what it feel like to be a veteran have fundamentally transform , with the introduction of define pathway for veteran to access support , include with housing and healthcare , back by record amount of Government funding . as we continue to pave the way forward , we know the time be right to look back and consider carefully the efficiency and effectiveness of pre - exist service , include some service under the banner of Veterans UK . that be why in March this year my right hon . friend the Minister for Defence People , Veterans and Service Families and I inform the House that we have commission an independent review into a total of seven body , include the Veterans Welfare Service , Defence Transition Services and Veterans ' Gateway , which I be pleased be publish in full in July . the welfare service review contain recommendation to improve and simplify welfare provision for veteran across a variety of channel , and it mark the first time that those service have be consider in the round , look at their role , scope and breadth . the Minister for Defence People , Veterans and Service Families and I welcome the review ' s finding as an important step in make the UK the good place in the world to be a veteran . the Government have already commit to respond formally to the review by the end of the year , but member of the House and their constituent rightly expect an update from I on what progress we have make so far . I be therefore delighted to announce that the Government accept the principle behind the vast majority of the review ' s 35 strategic and operational recommendation . thank to close collaboration between the Ministry of Defence and the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , I be pleased to update the House on how this government be take decisive step to deliver a number of the review ' s recommendation . first , the " Veterans UK " branding will be retire in 2024 , with the Government announce a replacement in due course . indeed , as the review acknowledge , staff involve in deliver welfare service for veteran sincerely care about their work , but sometimes analogue process have historically hamper the level of service provide . with initiative such as the Government digitalisation programme , back by £ 40 million of Government funding , we be confident that the experience of service user will be genuinely transform . the retirement of the " Veterans UK " branding mark a clean break from the past , and represent a vital step forward in regain trust between the service and its user . secondly , the word " Veterans " will be remove from the title of the Minister for Defence People , Veterans and Service Families — the title will be rename " Minister for Defence People and Families " . we agree with the review ' s recommendation that that will provide clarity about the responsibility for co - ordinating veteran policy across Government . indeed , although the MOD will continue to provide support — include on pension and compensation , on transition from service for veteran and their family , and beyond transition on issue result from service — the change to the ministerial title further clarify that the primary duty for co - ordinating veteran policy across Government sit with the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , at the heart of Government in the Cabinet Office , and with I as the Minister for Veterans ’ affair report directly to the Prime Minister in Cabinet . thirdly , I can announce that the OVA be currently explore option for transform Veterans ' Gateway , which have already have more than one million visit to its online guide . the House will be pleased to know that we have recently launch a refresh project for the gateway , and be in the process of bring the service into central Government , within the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , ensure that the gateway deliver streamline access to the plethora of support available to veteran . tie into that work , the Ministry of Defence and the Office for Veterans ' Affairs will jointly assess the relationship between Veterans ' Gateway and Veterans UK helpline . we will be mindful throughout of the need to simplify how veteran access support , and ensure that veteran who be unable to access service online , or who have more complex need , be still support . finally , the welfare service review will , alongside the Veterans and Advisory Pensions Committees Act 2023 , contribute to clarify the future role of the vapc in a way that support the Government ' s vision for veteran ’ welfare service . today put we yet another step close to deliver on this Government ' s ambition to make the UK the good country in the world to be a veteran . I pay particular tribute to the review team , the independent veteran adviser , and all 150 contributor to this review , for the considerable amount of work that go into produce the report in a relatively short space of time . I look forward to publish the Government ' s full response to the review later in the year , and to ensure that our welfare service for veteran and their family , service leaver and the bereaved community , be as efficient and effective as possible . this country have an unwavere duty to those who put their life on the line for our freedom . as today ' s statement demonstrate , this Government be commit and determine to discharge that duty with the honour and respect that our courageous ex - service personnel deserve , and I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minster for advance sight of the statement . labour be deeply proud of our veteran , and for the enormous contribution they have make and continue to make to our country . there be not very much in that statement , but what there be I can welcome . there seem to be two bit of rebranding , and two thing that the Minister should already be do , and that seem to be about it . I be expect the Minister to have publish the full Government response to the independent review of UK Government welfare service for veteran , instead of a statement that be just design to look busy . when can we expect that Government response ? it be due by the end of the year , but we be already in late November so there be not much time leave . as we head into the winter month , the Conservatives be still fail to deliver the support that our veteran and their family deserve . this review be long overdue , but minister have be responsible for worsen veteran ' service over the past 13 year . they have create a postcode lottery for veteran support , they have cut employment support for veteran , and they have continue to make little progress in the slow roll - out of veteran ' ID card . as temperature drop , the cost of living crisis be go to be tough on family across the country , and our veteran be no exception . People be worried about how they can afford to pay bill , and many could be make that horrific choice between heating and eating , as many do last year and the year before . this be why it be essential that they be able to access the service and support they need here and now . the veteran ’ welfare system can feel " almost impenetrable " for those seek support . it be " overwhelming and off - put " lead to a " distrust of the Ministry of Defence and Veterans UK " . those be not my word ; they be the damn conclusion of the independent review . our veteran do not need empty promise . they need action . as there be not much in today ' s statement , we be leave with more question than answer — and here be some more . when will the Government design and articulate a single strategy for veteran ’ welfare service , and will that be inclusive of family member and the bereaved ? what step be be take to prepare personnel throughout their entire military career for civilian life , not just as they come into the transition timeframe ? will the MOD commission a review of tri - service welfare support provision , with a particular focus on transition and the wide discharge welfare provision process ? paragraph 4 . 7 of the independent review state that casework management in veterans welfare service be not fit for purpose due to " a significant ( and out - date ) reliance on paper record " , and a lack of interoperability with other MOD IT system . I therefore welcome the introduction of the £ 40 million digitisation programme that have previously be announce , but will the Minister tell we what proportion of that be be spend on veteran ’ welfare service and in what timeframe ? will that end the outdated reliance on paper record that be make clear in the independent review ? paragraph 4 . 18 of the review say that welfare manager be " over - stretch " , and paragraph 4 . 19 say that they be " fundamentally … not professionally train to undertake these role " , which be part financial adviser , part trauma caseworker , and part social worker , which be " in stark contrast to … the charity sector " and have contribute to " a high turnover of staff in recent year " . what be the Minister do to address the training need and capacity shortage ? it be disappointing that the content - light King ' s Speech contain no new legislation to put the armed force covenant on to the statute book . labour have be clear that in government we would fully incorporate the armed force covenant into law . why do the Minister not agree with we on that ? why do he oppose that labour policy ? we all understand that veteran ' identity card will speed up access to service , but throughout the last year the Minister have use various language , which have change , about when he will hit the target for deliver they . this time last year , he promise that by summer 2023 all veteran should have receive a veteran ' ID card . in April , he move the goalpost , say that it would be complete " by the end of the year " . now , as we approach the end of the year , he be claim that he be deliver on the promise , but not every veteran have an ID card . when will they ? labour be deeply proud of our veteran . they deserve well than Ministers repeatedly break promise , move the goalpost and fail to deliver the welfare support that our former service personnel and their family deserve . the next Labour Government will stand side by side with veteran and their family , because we be a party commit to fulfil the important promise our society make to those who serve . the Conservatives like to talk up their support to veteran , but it be clear — very much like today ' s statement — that although there be a lot of word , there be not always a lot of substance . I will be brief , because I be afraid that whenever the hon . member rise to talk about veteran , he simply demonstrate his vast lack of knowledge in veteran ’ affair . he ask I question that he know , or he should know , be question not for I but for the Ministry of Defence . for example , how we prepare people when they be in service be nothing to do with veteran ’ affair and veteran ' service . if he want to stand up in the House and say that veteran ' service have get bad over the last two , three , five or seven year , that be fine , but everybody listen and watch know that he be simply try to make a political point and play politic with veteran . I will not waste the House ' s time by go into too many of his point . I have be consistent on veteran ' ID card . I ask he to look at this and write to I with a time when I ever say that every veteran would have their ID card by the summer of this year . that never happen , and it be important that in this House we do not say thing — inadvertently — that may not be correct . we be deliver ID card by the end of the year , which be always the promise . by January , we will be print 10 , 000 a month , and the veteran I speak to are happy with the process . the hon . Member ask plenty of question that do not relate to the statement or this area . again , I implore the opposition to move away from glib statement about veteran . they need to intellectually apply themselves to how policy can change to improve the life of veteran . there be a desert on the Opposition Benches , and that be deeply disappointing . I thank the Minister for his statement . he will recall that last year the all - party parliamentary group on veteran do a survey on Veterans UK , and I hope that survey play a small part in the statement . what be his vision for what come after Veterans UK ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for all the work that he have champion over many year in the APPG , along with all its member . he have specifically focus on Veterans UK . the ambition be to make it far clear and easy to navigate and understand the function of Veterans UK , and simultaneously to improve outcome . the quinquennial review into armed force compensation , which will report by the end of the year , tie into the full response to the veteran ’ welfare review and will go into detail about some of those issue . I would like to put on the record my sincere thank to all the staff who work at Veterans UK . I will always rally hard in their defence , because I have be there myself and see how hard they work . they genuinely care and they be commit , but the resource envelope that they operate in have not be good enough for a long time . the Government have change that , and I be proud of that , as it will change what it mean to be a veteran in the UK . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for the statement , but he can not escape from the fact that this be quite thin gruel . it amount to a rebrande exercise , and I can not think of many veteran who will be excited about what he say . there be a cost of living crisis , and what veteran want to hear from the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs be what he be do , or what lobby he be undertake , to have practical step put in place to help they right now . nothing be say about that , despite that be a matter most press for so many veteran who be find it hard to secure the dignity in retirement to which they should have a right . the Minister say that veteran must be give the recognition they deserve because they have put their life on the line on our behalf . he also say that he want to simplify welfare provision for veteran , yet we continue to see too many veteran struggle to pay for essential . I be sure he will say that that be not a matter directly for he , but I be keen to hear what lobby he be undertake — with his Cabinet colleague and the Prime Minister , to whom he report directly — on their behalf . this go to the heart of veteran ’ welfare , which be surely his business . in the 2021 census , 1 million UK veteran be age over 65 , and an estimate 146 , 000 be eligible for pension credit , but , by treat military compensation award as income , some of our poor veteran and their family be push beyond the pension credit threshold and miss out on thousand of pound of support that other civilian can access . of course , that extend beyond national support and include benefit pay out by council such as housing benefit , council tax support , discretionary housing payment and disabled facility grant . when I raise that in the Chamber yesterday , the Minister for Defence People , Veterans and Service Families tell I that compensation be calculate with an understanding of how it will interact with welfare benefit . I must tell the Minister that the MOD have not say that before , and that have not be understand heretofore by the British Legion . perhaps he could explain why compensation incur as a result of service in the line of duty be not include in mean - test benefit for civil servant but be for veteran . will he support — I get the gist of the question . when it come to issue that affect the veteran community and what be go on in that space , these be not just idea that come from Ministers or other sit around and think , " what be the most important thing for veteran ? " cost of living support be one of they , and that be why a number of fund be available . the Royal British Legion have do a terrific job on that over the winter , and the Office for Veterans ’ affair lean into the armed force covenant trust fund money as well . consistently , the no . 1 issue in veteran ’ affair over the last seven year have be the identification of military service among the service charity . that be why between the Ministry of Defence and the OVA we have put so much effort and resource into deliver on our promise on veteran ' ID card . the hon . member raise a legitimate point about the Royal British Legion ' s current campaign on separate allocation of income for armed force compensation scheme award or similar . we will look at what can be do on that , and we be meet representative of the Royal British Legion — I think before Christmas — to work out what be the art of the possible . but I be afraid that I do not agree with her assertion that life be a misery as a veteran in this country . thing have improve exponentially in the last seven to 10 year . never have opportunity or the support available be like they be now , but we continue to work hard . I always listen to the veteran community and work hard to ensure that we meet that need . from his maiden speech onwards , the Minister have relentlessly promote the cause of service veteran , and the whole House should be grateful to he for it . even long in their service be tremendously experience charity such as veteran aid in Victoria , under the inspirational leadership of Dr Hugh Milroy . to what extent be Government strategy draw on the vast experience of such organisation , which know so much about the frontline issue face by veteran who fall on hard time or even into destitution ? I pay huge tribute to the charity in this space . I know the work of Veterans aid , and Hugh do a terrific job down there . the key in all this work be collaboration . nobody will deliver this by themselves . the expertise in the charity sector be unrivalle . in Op Courage , we have deliver a dedicated mental health care pathway for veteran , which be commission centrally but deliver by different charitable partner all over the United Kingdom . it work for the Government , because we know that the service be happen ; it work for individual , because they know that a service be available for they ; and it work for the vital charity in the sector , which can have long - term contract . we be do that on homelessness : Op Fortitude have set up a network of wraparound service provision to end homelessness this Christmas . I know that there be always more to do , and I would love to see Veterans aid and to catch up with where it be with its work . the Minister have recently be show evidence that blood testing be carry out on servicemen in the ' 50 and ' 60 — testing that the MOD deny exist . his response be to say that he could not do anything and that the nuclear veteran should sue the MOD . to dismiss those veteran in that way be a dereliction of his duty as Veterans Minister , be it not ? I recognise the politicisation of the campaign on nuclear test veteran . the truth be that no one have do more than those on the Government Benches to deliver that medal , more than 70 year later , to our veteran who serve . there be no cover up ; I have work extensively with the Minister for Defence People , Veterans and Service Families to uncover record in this space . some record be take , some be not . there be no cover - up policy to discriminate against that cohort . it be simply do not exist . what would be the reason to cover it up rather than look after these people ? I have travel halfway round the world to Fiji to meet they , to look after they , to give they their medal and to try to support they . I rally against the politicisation of this veteran cohort , who will of course continue to drive down this space . we all have a responsibility to act maturely and to ensure that they receive the answer they deserve after a very long time . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . last year , I run my first half marathon to raise money for Forces in the Community , a Broxtowe charity that support veteran through all walk of life . such small organisation do life - change work and desperately need our support . will the Minister lie out what support be in place for small organisation such as Forces in the Community ? of course . the Armed Forces Covenant Fund Trust be fantastic in that regard . it be an independent body that receive at least £ 10 million a year from the Government to support vital charity and what they be do . the charity space be make up of large and small charity , and they be all equally important . they save life and work on the frontline every day . I pay tribute to my hon . friend and his fundraising , and to all colleague across the House who support veteran charity , which be a vital part of deliver this nation ' s commitment to our armed force veteran . I be sure that we be unite in this House in want to secure the good outcome for veteran . an important part of that be remember their service and ensure that we never forget the sacrifice that they make on behalf of our country . I be conscious that the Minister be sit next to the Minister for Defence People , Veterans and Service Families , who know a little more about commemoration , but he will also know that we be very privileged to still have some veteran from Operation Overlord and Operation Market Garden . on behalf of the Government , will he say what work be under way to ensure that there will be a fitting 80th anniversary tribute to they next year ? I pay tribute to the relentless way that the hon . Member provide a voice to veteran in his community and across the country . next year be an incredibly important year . while we contemporise remembrance , as we do this year in the way we change the parade and such thing , we be incredibly privileged to have people still with we who experience a conflict that none of we could ever imagine . they be a living and breathe example . the Government be determined to honour that in the correct fashion next year . I look forward to share those plan with he in due course . I have cause to raise problem with the UK ' s handling of some Stroud veteran , particularly those with complex case , and I thank the Minister for his time in that regard . I can see what an extremely difficult but necessary step the fearless Minister have take in relation to VUK in his quest to help veteran . will he talk through the transition period towards the new service , particularly to reassure anybody who be already involve with VUK , and expand on the Veterans ' gateway timeline and approach ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for champion these issue over many year . retire the brand of Vets UK may seem like a small thing to people who do not know much about veteran . in the veteran community , it be a massive moment to retire that brand and look at what the organisation do in relation to the Office for Veterans ' Affairs . we need to make sure that it do what it say on the tin for our bereaved family and deliver an improved service through the maturity of these review , which will be deliver by the end of the year . veteran ' gateway be a fantastic idea when it come in , and it have be run very well by the Royal British Legion over many year , but I have always have an ambition for it to do more . I have a vision of everything be in the palm of your hand in future , so people can go somewhere like Veterans ' gateway to access support , submit an armed force compensation scheme application or geolocate support service in the community . it be an exciting vision and we can only do that by bring it back into Government . it be now back in Government . we be work on those plan , and I will have more to say on that development in due course . veteran and their family be twice as likely to be unpaid carer or in receipt of sickness or disability benefit . some of the announcement be trail ahead of tomorrow ' s autumn statement have indicate that benefit might see a real - term cut . it have be suggest the benefit might be increase by 4 . 6 % rather than 6 . 7 % to reflect the October inflation figure rather than the usual September one . have the Minister discuss with Department for Work and Pensions or Treasury colleague how the trail change might affect veteran and their family ? I have not , and I will not comment on anything to do with tomorrow ' s autumn statement . I welcome the statement from my right hon . friend and his work on behalf of veteran across the whole United Kingdom . he take very seriously the impact on their family , particularly those who have lose love one fight for their country . a lot of good work have be do by the Ministry of Defence and the UK Government on the war widow ' s pension issue , but I have be contact by constituent who be concerned that thing have change somewhat since the original announcement in May , and a significant proportion of the few than 400 woman may not get the money they be expect from the UK Government . will he agree to take that back to the Department to look again ? I work closely with my Ministry of Defence colleague on that . I start work in 2017 and 2018 , and then in 2019 as a Minister , on some sort of recognition of war widow . I be pleased with the work of the Minister for Defence People , Veterans and Service Families and with the ex - gratia payment we have end up with . that will never replace a pension and it do not value what have be lose on behalf of the nation , but it be design to recognise that . the Government be clear that that should be available to everyone who be entitle to it , and I will work with my Ministry of Defence colleague to address the point that my hon . friend raise . it be estimate that some 60 , 000 ex - service personnel be victim of frozen pension arrangement because they have choose to live abroad . whatever the Government ' s position on frozen pension generally , surely these people could and should be treat as a special case . give the Minister ' s responsibility for co - ordinating veteran policy across Government , do he agree that they be a special case and will he represent their concern across Government ? this be an incredibly difficult issue , with which I be familiar . I have just be on a visit to Australia , where it be raise with I in person . the truth be that this be a Treasury policy area . I recognise that individual who leave the country want to see their pension uprate . that be not current policy , but I will always advocate for veteran to be a special case . I continue to make those representation every day that I be in government . I agree with the Minister that these issue really should not be politicise . I come into the House nearly 20 year ago . I grow up in an Army city , Hereford , and I now represent a constituency in Shropshire . when I come in 20 year ago , there be a lot less provision for veteran in every single aspect of what the Minister outline today . I commend the fact that the Government be support the majority of the 35 strategic and operational recommendation in the review . I put on record my thank to all the staff and volunteer at the Royal British Legion - back Battle Back Centre for wounded veteran in Lilleshall in my constituency . may I take this opportunity to say that he have an open invitation to visit ? that be very kind . I try to get around as many such centre as possible . the RBL have do an incredible job over many year with a lot of Battle back Centres . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . I become a Member of Parliament after my experience in conflict in 2006 , 2008 , 2009 and 2010 . I be here now in 2023 and veteran ' care have be transform , whichever way we look at it . on dedicated pathway for mental health and physical health , end homelessness , the criminal justice system and sector initiative into employment , there have never be a well time to be a veteran . however , we continue to press hard , because we want to make this the good country in the world to be a veteran . I be absolutely determined that we will get there . simply rebrande Veterans UK seem like a superficial move . I be not clear how just change the name recognise the deep problem that exist in that set - up . what assurance can the Minister give the House and the many veteran who contact I regularly that there will be a root - and - branch review to ensure that exist complaint be deal with and that veteran receive the service they richly deserve ? I be just look over my statement again and at no stage have I say that this be a rebrande exercise . the Veterans UK brand be be retire , absolutely , but that be not a rebrande exercise , because then we would have come forward with something else that would be exactly the same . the overarch organisation be be remove , as well as the interrelationship under that between the bereavement service , the compensation service and the welfare service that operate out of Norcross . look , if people want to take it as a rebrand , that ' s fine . I have not say that and that be not what it be go to mean for veteran , but if it fit their narrative , that ' s fine by I . I welcome the statement , but not as much as I welcome my right hon . and gallant Friend ' s role and his enthusiasm to continue to undertake it . that role do not exist under previous administration . we all know there be nothing bad than see a veteran on the street beg . recently , I come across a man call Danny at Edgware Road tube station and he be indeed beg . I write to the Minister with Danny ' s contact detail and I be eternally grateful that Danny be now get the support he deserve , but I do not believe that he should have have to beg for that . I look forward to the Government ' s response to the review to ensure that it do not take a Member of Parliament to write to a Minister in the Cabinet Office to get the support that people not only deserve but require . first , I pay tribute to my hon . friend for bring that case to we . I also pay tribute to those in my private office who work on individual case like that for veteran every single day and change life . that be what have happen in Danny ' s case . I do not want to see any veteran sleep rough because of a lack of provision . under this Government , we will end that by this Christmas through Op Fortitude , a dedicated pathway out of homelessness , with 910 support housing placement and £ 8 . 5 million . we be incredibly proud of it . on the point about this position not exist before , I welcome any political debate around veteran . there be a new shadow Minister talk about veteran today ; the other one be not here any more . there be no commitment to follow through on what we have do with the Office for Veterans ' Affairs . I have no idea why the Labour party would want to seek a fight on veteran ’ affair . we just want the country to look after they and I think Labour need to have another look at that tactic . let I say on behalf of the people right across Chesterfield that we have an absolute respect for the role play by veteran . I know that people across my constituency want veteran to get the support they need . we have an organisation in Derbyshire , stand To , which do fantastic work in provide veteran ' support service . I will be write to that organisation follow this statement . I be expect to be write to say that the Government be now in a position to provide their response to the review . from what the Minister have be able to say today , he seem keen to make the point that this not just a rebrande exercise ; Veterans UK be be stand down , but there will be a replacement . can he say any more about what will actually replace it , so I can put that in the letter that I be write to stand to ? what I try to do in this space be set the objective . we all know the problem around Veterans UK : the lack of accountability , and the challenge the staff face through the lack of resource and the lack of digitisation . we have set out where we want well outcome , for example in the compensation space . we have set those objective and what it come back with we will implement . it will all be tie into the Veterans ' gateway . we have an ambition that no one come in through the wrong front door , do not have to tell their story a number of time , and receive the care and compensation they deserve for their service , but that be a journey and not something I can implement overnight . I know colleague know this , but it be clear from have conversation with anybody in the veteran space about Veterans UK that it be not where I want it to be . that be what today be about : acknowledge those challenge and understanding why they exist . that have nothing to do with the staff , who have work incredibly hard over many year but have be traditionally under - resource by government of all colour . they now have a new resource envelope and a real opportunity to deliver professional veteran care , which be what this be all about . I thank the Minister for his statement and for his ongoing work to support veteran right across the United Kingdom . the Minister will be aware that new research from Queen ' s University Belfast have find that Northern Ireland veteran who have be expose to traumatic event and experienced barrier to care have increase level of ptsd symptom and diagnosis . what further assurance can the Minister give I that the need of veteran who serve in Northern Ireland will be support , give those finding ? I be lead to believe that the Minister will be visit Northern Ireland . he would be most welcome in my constituency to visit some of those veteran in the not too distant future . I thank the hon . Lady for her continued advocacy in this space . as everybody know , level up what it mean to be a veteran in Northern Ireland have be absolutely critical to the Government ' s work , whether through the very , very difficult legacy Bill or the Northern Ireland Veterans Support Office . the NIVSO be the first directly funded workstream of £ 500 , 000 come out of the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , which we be work with the Veterans Commissioner over there to deliver . there be key area in the veteran ' ecosystem that be deliver by devolved authority and we respect that . all we be ask be that all veteran get the standard they deserve and I be determined we will get there in Northern Ireland . I be go to Northern Ireland again on 4 and 5 December . I look forward to see she and everyone else who be always very kind to I when I come over . I thank the Minister for the update . I wonder if he would listen to this voice from the desert from east Durham . can I draw his attention to the terrific work the East Durham Veterans Trust do to provide mental health support , counselling and advice ? it be a much neglect area . indeed , the Minister ' s colleague who be no long in her place , the hon . member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) , mention the Veterans ' gateway . there be some excellent work on a telephone - base app that I have see , which be pioneer by the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers . I hope we will see a lot more of that . may I draw the Minister ' s attention to early - day motion 51 in support of a veteran ' bank holiday ? will he look into that suggestion ? in this country we be way behind in the number of bank holiday . I think it would be significant for the whole country to highlight veteran ' welfare through a new bank holiday . you will not find I argue against more time off , Mr Deputy Speaker ! I be always fight for well service in the veteran space , and I will take that idea of a veterans bank holiday away with I . when it come to the issue of mental health , the hon . Gentleman be entirely right . some small group have do extraordinary work on the frontline over many year , sit with veteran throughout the night when no one else be awake or watch , and plug they into service . we have transform mental health care service through Op Courage , spend between £ 22 million and £ 24 million a year , and there be 19 , 000 referral in its first year . there be still a massive amount of unmet need , but we be determined to drive that down so that all these group feel connected and plug into service . it be my mission to ensure that no veteran , especially when poorly , do not know where to turn , and I will not rest until we get there . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . his understanding of veteran ' issue have be nurture by his service in the Army but also by his nature , which lead he to try to help people who be less well off , and I appreciate that very much . I understand that just in the past week his Department have be able to assist people on whose behalf I have be act for some time , and I thank he for that as well . last month it be announce that the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs would be provide about half a million pound of pilot funding to level up medical and welfare service for veteran in Northern Ireland . can the Minister confirm that all those veteran — every one of they — will qualify for the funding , and that there be no criterion relate to length of service that they will have to meet in order to gain access to the right care ? there be no criterion of that kind . the qualification in this country for be a veteran be 24 hour ' service . we can disagree on whether that be a good thing or a bad thing , but it be the basis of the allocation and all the datum that we have have to collect over the last few year to understand what the veteran cohort be actually like . I be not sure what sort of exclusion the hon . Gentleman be refer to — he may wish to speak to I offline — but I have rally hard against the way in which the politic change in these thing . individual ' commitment to the nation be unwavering . there be a standard to which we will adhere when it come to look after they follow their service , irrespective of where they serve in the United Kingdom , and I pay tribute to the hon . gentleman for help we to deliver that over the year . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . during Justice question , I seek to ask a question about the comment report to have be make recently by a district judge in Walsall magistrate court . while I do not wish to question the authority of Mr Speaker , it be my understanding that the judge in question be not one of those cover by the category describe in paragraph 21 . 23 of " Erskine May " . can you advise I , therefore , on how I can receive a reply to my question ? I be grateful to the right hon . and learn Gentleman for give notice of his point of order . Mr Speaker have , I understand , review the question and be content for it to be answer . far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his perfectly proper question , and I want to reassure he that we have listen to it and the Lord Chancellor will be write to he in due course . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . it have recently be announce that owe to its perilous financial position , Derbyshire County Council have ask the Department for Transport to pause its plan for the Staveley regeneration route bypass . that would mean that £ 140 million of Government money would not be available to we in Chesterfield for a much need bypass because of the financial problem of Derbyshire County Council . obviously the decision be not make by the Department for Transport , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I wonder whether you have be notify of any plan for a statement to be make in the House about the propose change . if not , how we can ensure that the council and the Department work together to ensure that this important route still go ahead ? the hon . Gentleman be fully aware that that be not a matter for the Chair , but I can say that I have receive no indication of any statement to be make this afternoon . the hon . Gentleman ' s point be a matter of record , it have be hear , and it will be for those on the Front Bench to decide whether and how they wish to respond . medium Bill Second read [ relevant document : Fifth Report of the Welsh Affairs Committee of Session 2022 – 23 , broadcast in Wales , HC 620 , Twelfth Report of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee of Session 2022 – 23 , Draft medium bill : Radio Measures , HC 1287 ; Thirteenth Report of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee of Session 2022 – 23 , Draft medium bill : Final Report , HC 1807 ; and the Government response to both report , HC 155 . ] 2 . 24 pm I beg to move , that the Bill be read a second time . I be especially pleased to do so today , as it be World Television Day . the british medium be world renowned . they inform and educate , they challenge and entertain . Content create by our medium , be it journalistic exclusive or broadcast endeavour , attract domestic and international audience and help to drive our creative economy . however , the world in which this content be compete be change rapidly . technology have transform every facet of our life , and nowhere be that more evident than in the way we watch and consume television and listen to the radio . we have see the rise of stream giant and on - demand content , YouTube and smartphone , tablet and tiktok , and all those have combine to reshape our whole broadcasting landscape . today , that landscape be unrecognisable in the context of what follow the last major reform of the rule that govern broadcasting in 2003 . we need to support the british medium to enable they to compete and continue to serve their audience with high - quality content . we need regulation fit for the digital age , and that be what this medium Bill will give we . in keep with the Government ' s define mission , the Bill make long - term decision for a bright future for our viewer , our listener and our public service broadcaster . it be a pro - growth Bill that be design to level the play field for public service broadcaster such as the BBC , Channel 4 , STV and ITV , among other , so that they can continue to provide first - class content and reach their audience . as member will know , we have engage heavily with all part of industry , from the streamer to the independent production sector and our public service broadcaster , to get the Bill right , and if we want our broadcaster to be ready for the next wave of technology , it be imperative that we get it right . as the Minister say , the Bill mark a time of huge change in broadcasting and what have you , but the specific concern in Scotland , especially in my part of the world , be that while it mention and make provision for S4C , gaelic broadcasting seem to have be omit from it . I be sure that that be just an oversight , and that during the Bill ' s later stage we will see safeguard in place for Gaelic broadcasting and BBC Alba in particular . I recognise the great contribution make by gaelic speaker . we have agree that we will , in the first instance , bring together the BBC and Scottish Government official to discuss the co - ordination of funding decision for gaelic language production between the two organisation . we consider fund arrangement for minority language broadcasting , include program for the gaelic language , at the previous charter review , and those arrangement will be consider again at the next review . I be sure the Minister will acknowledge the immense importance of public sector broadcasting to the Welsh language . how will she ensure that the Bill reflect the significant challenge face by S4C in provide a wide range of good - quality programme for both linear tv and online consumption , and protect the viability of the Welsh medium sector ? we be of course anxious to protect S4C . as it be a public service broadcaster , many of these provision apply to S4C , which we strongly support . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for give way ; she be be very generous with her time . in recognise the importance of public service broadcasting to outstanding broadcast UK - wide but particularly in Wales , we should also recognise that this be not just about Welsh language programme ; it be also about english language programme produce in Wales . be my right and learn hon . friend not say — entirely correctly — that the Bill be not about protect public service broadcaster , but about allow they to compete on a level playing field in do what they do well ? absolutely . my right hon . friend make an excellent point , because this Bill be all about protect our public service broadcaster , whether that be the BBC , ITV , Channel 4 or S4C , and I be proud to be bring it forward . on the point about public service broadcasting , do my right hon . and learn Friend recognise the grow importance of local television and how the Bill could be improve by make sure that local television coverage be deal with as a public service broadcaster ? it be get as important as local radio station such as Swindon 105 . 5 in my constituency — say that again ! Swindon 105 . 5 — I recommend you all listen to it , and BBC Wiltshire , of course . it be important that we recognise local television as a public service broadcaster , and an amendment could be make to the Bill in that regard . I be always happy to discuss matter with my right hon . and learn Friend . this provision will help to protect radio more broadly through the smart speaker provision and there be other measure on protect . the Government understand the issue of online local news , which be very important , and Ofcom have conclude proposal in relation to its role , but there be always matter we can look at far . what be contain in this Bill to address the concern that , in the digital age , the BBC licence fee be simply unsustainable ? my hon . friend will know that this be a matter that the Government be consider — that is , the question of the licence fee . we have already start look at the issue that face the BBC in a change medium landscape . People consume their medium in a different way . last year , 400 , 000 people do not renew their licence . this be something we be look at , but it be not a question for this Bill . as the Secretary of State know , Channel 4 be base in Leeds and I thank she for her decision that it should be retain as a public service broadcaster in the public sector . the medium Bill be an opportunity to legislate for new public service broadcasting purpose for medium literacy and workforce diversity . they be not currently in the Bill , but be the Secretary of State consider those two issue in relation to the Bill ? as the hon . Member will know , we be bring forward the matter in this Bill , but he be right to state the importance of Channel 4 . we have bring forward measure to ensure that it retain its ability to be sustainable while also protect independent producer . I be talk early about how it be important to engage to get this Bill right . we have engage heavily and be very grateful to the wide number of people who have help to ensure that the Bill have the appropriate scrutiny and have land in the right place . I would like to put on record my thank to the Culture , Media and Sport Committee under the chairmanship of my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) . the Committee invest heavily in the Bill and I be grateful for its recommendation . I want to thank it for its constructive engagement with my Department and for its pre - legislative scrutiny early this year . alongside view from the industry , its report have play a crucial role in ensure that the Bill deliver for audience and listener . but it be not just the Select Committee that have call for this Bill . the Welsh Affairs Committee , lead by my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) , and the Scottish Affairs Committee have both call for its introduction . I would like to thank Baroness Stowell of Beeston for her leadership of the Communications and Digital Committee , which also call for this Bill ' s introduction and work hard on the issue in it for a number of year . I would like to thank my hon . friend the Members for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) , for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) and for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) for their thoughtful and consider engagement . I would also like to thank the previous iteration of the shadow Front Bench for its support , and I be sure that this shadow Front Bench will also provide constructive engagement . it be not just film that be central to our creative industry and our national life . we be in a golden age for the silver screen in the UK , and public service broadcaster be the main reason why . whether it be reality tv show such as " the great british Bake - off " and " I ' m a celebrity … get I out of here ! " , or drama such as " Time " , " Broadchurch " and " the Night Manager " , our public service broadcaster have prove that they can continue to go toe to toe with the stream giant , but it be clear that this Bill be need to enable our world - lead broadcaster to compete in an ever - more online world . measure in the Bill will introduce simple , more up - to - date rule on what our public service broadcaster have to broadcast and how they reach viewer , make sure that the high - quality public service content for our audience remain easy to find as viewer habit evolve . for a renowned public service broadcaster such as Channel 4 , this Bill will help to support its long - term sustainability . this include remove its publisher broadcaster restriction , which will free up Channel 4 to make more of its own content if it want to , and open new option for diversify its revenue away from advertising . alongside this , we be bring forward measure to safeguard Channel 4 ' s significant role in drive investment into the production sector . as many member will recall , I set out the core aspect of this package , which the Government have design in consultation with Channel 4 and the independent production sector , in a write statement to this House on 8 November . I hear the right hon . and learn Lady ' s previous answer and I be sure that it come from a good place , but just to be absolutely sure — what we be look for in Scotland be provision similar to those for S4C , and if they could be bolt on as thing progress , that would be gratefully welcome . one final point I would make be that gaelic broadcasting have enjoy tremendous cross - party support in Scotland , pre - devolution and post - devolution , and I think she should bear that in mind . it be probably the same in Wales with S4C , so hopefully we will get the same provision as S4C . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that issue . he will be aware that Alba be not in the same position as S4C because it be a programmer rather than a channel . in that way , it have a relationship with the BBC , and that be how its funding arrangement be determined . rise — I be go to make some progress . I be talk about Channel 4 , but it be not just Channel 4 that be go to benefit from this Bill . the Bill include measure specific to S4C , the Welsh language broadcaster . we work closely with S4C on the provision in the Bill , which will enable S4C to broaden its reach and offer its content on new platform in the UK and beyond . the Bill also update S4C ' s public service remit to include digital and online service , and implement in statute other recommendation make in the independent Williams review in 2018 . these provision be a crucial part of the Government ' s support for regional and minority language broadcasting . we know how important this kind of broadcasting be , give many people content in a language familiar to they and provide a cultural outlet for community across the UK . it be no surprise that , in its recent report on broadcasting in Wales , the Welsh Affairs Committee call on the Government to introduce a media bill to Parliament as early as possible in the next session , and I be glad that we have be able to deliver on that commitment . it be clear that online demand streaming service be now an important part of the broadcasting landscape . from Netflix to iPlayer , they provide huge value to UK audience and in many case make significant and grow contribution to the UK economy . while UK audience enjoy have instant access to the programme they love , it be also essential that when they watch they on their smart tv , they enjoy similar protection to live tv . as a member of the Welsh Affairs Committee , I would also welcome assurance that our Welsh medium broadcasting , S4C , be safeguard under the Media Bill , but more specifically , can the Secretary of State confirm that the list event regime will accurately reflect the importance place by supporter on key competition include the Six Nations rugby to ensure their status on terrestrial tv ? the hon . Member will know that sport be devolve in Scotland , and if the Welsh Government want to make any recommendation to we in relation to list event , of course we would be very happy to listen to they . rise — I will make a little progress . the Bill will provide great protection for child and vulnerable audience through a proportionate new on - demand video code , to be draft and enforce by Ofcom , bring streaming service in line with the protection that already exist for the audience of public service broadcaster . the Bill will also require great provision of subtitle , audio description and sign language . this will lead to a much improved service for million of people live with a hearing loss or visual impairment when they watch or listen to television programme on demand . I draw the House ' s attention to an expected future interest on this point that I articulate in Westminster Hall . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for the work she have do to ensure that accessibility be accommodate in this Bill , and particularly for respond to the previous work she do with I and other on subtitle and other accessibility point . I be pleased to meet my right hon . friend to discuss these important point , and I be very proud that this Bill will ensure great access so that those with impairment can enjoy the thing that those of we without impairment already enjoy . the Secretary of State mention the Scottish Affairs Committee , of which I be a member . she will know that , in our report on public broadcasting , we recommend that the Government provide urgent assurance on maintain Freeview beyond 2034 . that chime very much with her speech to the Royal Television Society , in which she say : " we want terrestrial television to remain accessible for the foreseeable future . " do she anticipate an opportunity in this Bill to ensure we have that guarantee beyond 2034 ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this important point , because we want to ensure that everybody have access to television . that be why I make those comment in my speech . we be look at this matter . there be a number of ongoing review to make sure we have evidence basis . I be happy to stay engaged with he on that subject . from Wimbledon to the FIFA World cup final , live sport be among the most important fixture on our television schedule every week . to protect british viewer ’ access to major sporting event , the Bill will modernise the list event regime . in line with the Culture , Media and Sport Committee ' s recommendation , we have act to close the streaming loophole . million of we tune into the radio every single day to spend time with our favourite presenter or our favourite music . whether it be Cambridge 105 Radio or LBC , we rely on local radio to keep we entertain and inform . few know more about this issue than my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South , and I thank he for his tireless work to champion this vital sector . but as modern technology continue to transform how , when and where people tune in , we must ensure that station across the UK have the right support in place so that they can reach their listener . I be grateful for the Secretary of State ' s kind word . one of the issue we have discuss and debate in this Chamber over the last 12 month be the BBC ' s decision to reduce local news on many of its local radio station . I be very supportive of this Bill and welcome the step to cut red tape for local commercial radio , but can she assure I and this House that there be sufficient provision to ensure that local news continue on local multiplex ? I be pleased to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency and to take part in a session on his local radio station . as he know , the BBC be operationally and editorially independent but , of course , local news be important . we have measure in this Bill to protect local news . because listener increasingly listen to radio use smart speaker , the Bill will require that major smart speaker ensure that the UK radio station that listener love remain available on request . the Bill will also remove a number of outdated and burdensome regulation that be hold back the commercial radio sector , while strengthen protection for local news and information . finally , one of my central priority as Secretary of State be to protect media freedom so that our world - lead medium can continue to thrive . the Bill have medium freedom at its core . one of its most significant measure be the removal of a long - stand threat to that freedom by repeal section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 . section 40 and the possibility of publisher have to pay the legal cost of the people who sue they , even if they win , have hang over our medium like a sword of Damocles . the Bill remove the sword for good . the Labour party , of course , be no friend of the free press . the shadow Secretary of State have , in the past , call for boycott of some of this country ' s most well - respect paper . the Labour party have accuse the Government of muddy the water of this crucial legislation by include the repeal of section 40 , but for we the water be clear . the position be clear : we will protect our free press . at Justice question early today , the Government be again laud anti - slapp legislation that protect small publisher and investigative journalist from oppressive conduct by wealthy individual and organisation . that be exactly what section 40 do , and the Minister have completely mischaracterise it . be it not inconsistency , amount to hypocrisy , to repeal that provision ? the hon . Gentleman be very knowledgeable on this point , and I be always grateful for his intervention . I be proud that , together with the Minister of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , I have bring forward provision to strengthen the anti - slapp regime via a taskforce . the Ministry of Justice have propose further legislation and the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , who be extremely knowledgeable , will know that currently it apply only to economic crime . section 40 apply across the board , and slapp be strategic lawsuit of a particular client , so repeal section 40 be necessary . I be proud to be bring forward that repeal in this Bill . I be sure that today we will hear significant contribution on this important Bill , and I look forward to the debate . we should be under no illusion about the urgent need to press ahead with reform . success today be never a guarantee of success tomorrow , and it be our job , as a Government and as a House , to enact reform that keep our broadcaster at the top of their game in the year ahead . that be what the Bill will do : level the playing field , remove threat to the medium ' s sustainability , and open up opportunity for they to maximise their potential and unlock growth . I commend this Bill to the House . as the Secretary of State know , I welcome the introduction of this important and long - overdue Bill . I start by make she an offer : I will work with she on a cross - party basis to get the Bill into law as quickly as possible , subject to the proper scrutiny that would be expect from his Majesty ' s Opposition . Britain ' s public service broadcaster must be fully equip with the tool they need to thrive in this intensified era of internet and on - demand television . that be why Labour have be call on the Government for some time to bring forward many of the measure in the Bill . and it be not just labour ; Ofcom , Select Committees of both Houses , the public service broadcaster , consumer and industry leader across the sector all back the Bill and want to see it pass into law , and some have do so for many year . far to the point I make to the Secretary of state , and far to the shadow Minister ' s excellent point about work co - operatively across the House , would she support a straightforward amendment to protect gaelic language broadcasting ? I hope the Government will do so too . I can not say whether I would support an amendment until I have see it , but despite a specific mention of " Gaelic - language content " in the briefing note on the King ' s Speech , there seem to be no mention of protect Gaelic language broadcasting in the Bill , which give I cause for concern . I be sure that the Secretary of State understand how frustrating the delay have be to everyone involve and how , unfortunately , it seem to our public service broadcaster , the creative industry and all the talented people who work in they that the Government do not care about they . much of the delay be down to the pointless war on Channel 4 : be the Government go to sell it off and do they think it be publicly fund ? Nadine Dorries , their 10th Culture Secretary in 13 year , certainly seem to think so , which slow down the Bill . not content with chip away for more than a decade at our remarkably resilient british creative industry , they attempt to take their tory wreck ball straight to one of our fine institution , cost Channel 4 and other psb time that they could have use to get on the strong footing with their international competitor that the Secretary of State have describe today . if only the Bill have come soon . sell off Channel 4 be never go to work . it be wrong for viewer and it have only do damage to our creative industry . the Government should not have be contemplate it in the first place . with all that time waste , look inward and wrangle with themselves , they hold our public service broadcaster back . the result delay to the Bill and all the consequence of that have to sit squarely with the Government . never again must our psb be treat with such disdain . it may seem like a non sequitur , but the Culture , Media and Sport Committee undertake incredibly thoughtful pre - legislative scrutiny . I be sure the Secretary of State will agree that the Committee ' s work add considerably to the quality of the legislation across the piece . psb be important to the wide creative economy because they stimulate growth , create quality job and nurture british talent across all our nation and region , so I welcome the measure in the Bill to boost that success far , particularly those ensure that psb be always carry and give prominence on smart tv , set - top box and streaming stick . there be still debate about whether " appropriate " prominence , as it be describe in the Bill , go far enough . would " significant prominence " avoid confusion ? as we set the framework and as the Bill move to Committee , we have to explore what be clear about the mandate to Ofcom actually mean . for many people , the most important part of the Bill be the recognition that psb bring we joy and their unique universality bring ten of million of we together , whether to cheer on the Lionesses , watch Elton at Glastonbury or mourn the late queen . at a time where loneliness be at an all - time peak , public service content keep we connect . it be a string thread through home in every city , town and village in this country . I welcome the important modernisation to the list event regime in the Bill — there be a lot to welcome in the Bill — include close the streamer loophole , so that tv - like service that provide live content via the internet , such as the World cup and Wimbledon , will be bring within scope in the list event legislation . however , unfortunately the Government have not take on the Culture , Media and Sport Committee ' s recommendation to include digital on - demand right in the regime , so on - demand highlight and online clip can be keep behind paywall . I know the Government be conduct a review on digital right , but the deadline for response to their consultation be last year . I urge the Secretary of State to look down the back of the Culture , Media and Sport sofa — I be very fond of sofa metaphor , I be afraid , so hon . member may hear more about sofas later — pull that review out and tell we what be in it ? if the result of the consultation be not ready in time to be include in the Bill , will the Government include an enable provision to allow digital right to be add later ? some of the point raise , include those about digital right , be make by Colin Browne of the Voice of the Listener and Viewer . I recommend that the Secretary of State and the shadow Secretary of State meet he to understand what other point he be concern about , so they can be address during the passage of the Bill ? the Father of the House be quite right to draw attention to the Voice of the Listener and Viewer — I believe that organisation be on my call list , so I will chase that up follow his kind and sensible suggestion . another broad area that I ask the Secretary of State to look at again be child and young people ' s television , which have be one of public service broadcasting ' s big contribution to the life of our country . I be sure we can all name our favourite programme , which might reveal the age of hon . member . for I , they be " Jackanory " , " Grange Hill " and " the Magic Roundabout " , but for other they might be " Byker Grove " and " the Story of Tracy Beaker " , tackle issue rarely see elsewhere in the medium . colleague be welcome to mention their own favourite tv programme . " the Wombles " . interesting . the hon . Gentleman obviously appreciate the importance of tidy up . sadly , I fear that the importance of child ' s tv have be lose in the Bill . there have be a dramatic shift in the view habit of young people , particularly child over the age of 7 , as increasingly parent no long control viewing . couple with the long - term reduction in commissioning of original UK content for child , I be concerned that the Bill do not go far enough . the Government must ensure that the next generation do not miss out on the high - quality , culturally relevant storytelling , such as " the Wombles " , for which our generation be so thankful to our public service broadcaster . I think I will develop a Wombles theme now . these programme have a powerful influence on a child ' s development . they provide role model — I be sure the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Angus Brendan MacNeil ) be an assiduous tidier up as a result of what he watch as a child — inspire ambition and encourage social inclusion . they engage participation in national conversation and develop a child ' s understanding , valuing and ownership of what it mean to be british . child ' s tv also make a significant contribution to the economy and provide quality job . it be a key part of our soft power too , promote tolerance , logic and fair play to child all over the world . the Government must consider the wide consequence for public service broadcaster if child be not consume as much content as they use to . it be unhelpful for the long - term interest of our public service broadcaster if a generation have little experience of their content . will the Secretary of State think carefully about how she can work with public service broadcaster to get more quality UK - make child ' s content and , crucially , make sure it be as accessible as possible to they ? the Bill be design to allow current public service broadcaster to fulfil their obligation by take into account their online delivery platform , but child also spend a massive proportion of their time on Disney + or on video - share platform such as YouTube . I urge the Secretary of State to speak with those platform about how they can provide more quality public service content produce here in the UK . there seem to be an excessive amount of advertising on commercial programme aim at young child , to the extent that it sometimes seem almost subliminal within the programme . do my hon . friend think that area need to be look at , because those programme be use child as a commercial pressure on their parent or guardian ? the right hon . Gentleman will be aware of work do by the Children ' s Media Foundation and I be pleased to note his point . a great concern of mine be that all child ' s television and broadcasting ought to be of the high possible quality . in our country we have that tradition of make great child ' s tv . I be also concerned about the talent pipeline that psb rely on . for the past 13 year , successive Tory government have fail to understand the importance of creative education for economic growth and job . we get announcement with no follow - up , which mean they have not take the issue at all seriously . government advert patronise creative , suggest that ballerinas should retrain in cyber . complement the aim of the Bill , Labour will back the next generation of creative talent that we know our psb need if they be to fulfil the promise offer by the Bill . we will equip the workforce with the skill , knowledge and understanding need to sustain psb and the wide creative industry , which be so necessary to fulfil the pipeline . there will be a broad and balanced education for every child , who will have access to high - quality art , culture and creativity under a future Labour Government . I recognise the unique and vital role of the independent sector , as set out in the Bill . as MP for Bristol West , the home of BBC Wildlife , some Channel 4 studio and many creative industry that supply and work for they , I know how important psb be , or can be , for drive inward investment into community across our country . I have see for myself in my patch how that can stimulate the supply chain and the resilience of the local economy , but I want more for this industry across the country from this Government . finally , I welcome the measure in the Bill to give S4C , the Welsh language broadcaster , more flexibility in the modern world , and I welcome the comment that my hon . friend have make about that . I be extremely grateful to the hon . member for give way and congratulate she on her appointment . the point that I would like to make to the Secretary of State be that , although there be a broad welcome in Wales for the reform to S4C , it be a channel that seem at the moment to be at a crisis point ; perhaps that be go too far — it seem to be in an element of turmoil . I would be very grateful if the Secretary of State would look at what be go on at S4C , start with the journalism of Martin Shipton on Nation . cymru , because there be a few issue that need to be address . I thank the hon . member for that intervention , although I think it be probably address to the Secretary of State . I agree with he on the importance of S4C , as I be sure we all do . I want S4C to have more flexibility in the modern world , but I do note , as have be raise by other colleague , that there be no specific mention of protect Gaelic broadcasting in the future . that be despite an explicit mention of it in the King ' s Speech , so I would be grateful if the Secretary of State could clarify what have change by the next stage of the Bill . I thank the Secretary of State for bring forward the measure in the Bill and urge she to listen to the comment that I have raise today , and those that my colleague and other across the House will raise , because there be a great deal of cross - party consensus . we all want the Bill to be as good as it possibly can be . I reiterate my offer to work with she to get the Bill through Parliament in the good shape possible and to do so as smoothly as possible . labour will back this Bill to back our public service broadcaster . I echo the sentiment of other . it be always a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) . in continue with the spirit of non - partisanship that she express , I , too , hope that the Bill will get through the House quickly and think that we should congratulate the Secretary of State on get this far . as she say , it be 20 year since we last have a significant medium bill of this size . Most of the big name that we think of in the medium now , apart from the public service broadcaster , would not have mean anything or , indeed , do not exist at the time . I suspect that when the 2003 Act be be prepare , the big disruptor around be Blockbuster Video — [ interruption . ] I can see a few memory be spark across the House . that be the case then ; company come and go , but the importance of the sector continue . this Bill be so important and timely for two reason . the first be the economic importance of the creative sector ; the creative industry be one of the Chancellor ' s five important growth sector — and rightly so , as they contribute something like £ 108 billion to the economy and support something like 2 million job . they be an extremely important part of the british economy and also help to spread british soft power around the world . those institution that provide great creative content be some of the thing that people around the world most admire about this country . when I be last in the United States , before the pandemic , I be astounded by how many people ask I if I have hear of " the Crown " or " Downton Abbey " . if that be not an example of the soft power that our creative industry give this country , then I know of no well . the hon . Gentleman be of course quite right , with the slight caveat that of course " the Crown " be make by Netflix — one of the global disruptor that produce great work that we watch , but also give rise to the necessity to protect our own british public service broadcaster . arguably even more important than the economic importance of our public service broadcaster be their cultural importance ; in a global world — where , indeed , people can take british story but produce they in a global context — we need a british voice or a collection of voice . at a time when our society be rive with division , we need activity and mean of expression that remind we all of what we share , so the medium , which both create and carry those illustration of our share experience , be more important than ever . the protection in the Bill be important not just for our economy , but for the flourishing of our culture , and I can think of few more important thing that a Government can address . my right hon . friend make an incredibly important point about british soft power and project british culture on the world stage . do he agree that , within that , there be also huge scope for project the variety of what modern Britain look like ? do he agree that , whether it be through programme on Disney + like " welcome to Wrexham " or through the Welsh public service broadcaster , project Welsh , Scottish and northern irish identity as part of that overall industry be an incredibly important thing in the 21st century ? partly as a fellow Welsh man , I completely agree with my right hon . friend that it be about the subtlety of british culture . there be one recognisable british culture , but within that there be many stream of different culture , and preserve each be extremely important — not just by itself but also to preserve the whole british culture . precisely because we have not just one public service broadcaster — it be not just the BBC , but people from ITV , Channel 4 , S4C and Channel 5 do great work — we get the ability to project diversity of voice within the wide british voice . that be extremely important . I be grateful to the right hon . member for give way . I have hope that there would be consensus right across the House on epistle he be give on the importance of the gaelic language , and that an amendment to make sure that the gaelic language be protect should be support across the House . if I may say so , there be a Gaelic tv station , BBC Alba Radio nan G à idheal — in contrast to what be perhaps say from the Dispatch Box . it be important that we have that parity of esteem and that we can consider the funding that be necessary to allow the station to flourish . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for make that point . as that matter be not in the Bill , I have not consider it very carefully . if I may say so , I think that it be an expression of wisdom on the part of the shadow Secretary of State when she make the point that she could not commit to support an amendment that she have not see . I think that be a good rule for everyone . I wish to concentrate briefly on five area cover by the Bill , the first of which be indeed Channel 4 . it be what be not here that I celebrate as much as what be , because the Secretary of State take an early and wise decision not to proceed with a wholesale privatisation of Channel 4 . I always think that that policy be base on two pillar that be mutually incompatible ; there be an argument that Channel 4 have no commercial future and be not viable , and a separate argument that it could be sell off and raise a huge sum of money for the Treasury . it seem to I that we could make a plausible argument for either of those proposition , but it be really impossible to make a plausible argument for both those proposition at the same time , and that seem to be what the Government be seek to do for a time . I wholeheartedly congratulate the Secretary of State on move on from that policy and find new way to make Channel 4 viable in the long term , because that be extremely important . the way that the Government have choose to do that be to remove the publisher - broadcaster restriction to allow Channel 4 to start make some of its own content . I merely observe at this stage that I hope that that will be do very cautiously , because among the virtue of Channel 4 be not just what it broadcast , but the fact that it have promote the growth of an enormous sector of production company — some very small and some that have grow to be very large — and it be that ecosystem that have allow much the successful creativity in recent decade , for more than 40 year . I should declare an interest , because I be work for " Channel 4 News " the day the station start . I be there from day one . I suspect that , particularly give that the early reception of " Channel 4 News " be — how shall I put it ? — not wholly positive , if somebody have tell we then that the programme would still be on air at the same time every night as it be in 1982 when the station start , we would all have drop down dead with shock . nevertheless , it be still there and it be still controversial , and many other excellent thing have be produce by the channel . that have allow other production company to flourish , so I hope that , as Channel 4 move cautiously towards produce some of its own programme , it recognise , and the regulator and the Government recognise , that preserve that ecosystem of independent company be hugely important . Channel 4 say that its move into in - house tv production will be gradual and will build on the exist diversity in the market ; I very much hope that it observe that and that there be not too much conflict between proceed cautiously with that and maintain the channel ' s overall viability . the second detail in the Bill that I would like to deal with be preserve the prominence of public broadcaster on the new platform that people use to watch tv . I welcome the measure in the Bill , but with some caveat . it be obviously important to ensure that UK user can easily find the public service content they value ; despite the increasingly diverse global marketplace that we have discuss , about seven in 10 UK adult want UK life and culture represent on screen , and that be the core purpose of the public service broadcaster . if I may pick up on the many gratifying favourable reference to the CMS Committee , on which I serve under the enlightened chairmanship of my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , we have suggest that psb should be give " significant " , not just " appropriate " , prominence on all platform . we think that that will be a well way to protect the long - term interest of the psb , and it can be do by introduce amendment to propose new section 362AM of the Communications Act 2003 on the Ofcom code of practice , so it be not a complicated thing to do . another detailed point I would make be that the Bill create a level playing field in the must - carry / must - offer section for commercial psb in their negotiation with the programmer about how they will be carry , but not for the BBC . an amendment to that part of the Bill cover the must - carry obligation , set out that a regulated platform should act consistently with the equivalent BBC charter and framework agreement provision , would address that small point . the next point I will concentrate on be list event , and here I echo some of the remark make early in the debate : it be very welcome that the loophole about streaming service have be close . that will be a significant step forward in the way people watch big sporting event in particular , but again I commend to Ministers a recommendation of the Select Committee that the Government should go far and include digital on - demand right as well , because that be how many people will watch big sporting event — something that bring the country together — in future . with the Tokyo Olympics in 2021 , which be obviously in a different time zone , some digital on - demand clip and highlight reach 10 time more people than the live tv coverage where an event have see some british success overnight in this country . if we look ahead to future great sporting event , the man ' s football World cup be in the USA , Mexico and Canada , and the 2028 and 2032 Olympics be in the USA and Australia respectively . those be all inconvenient time zone for most british viewer , so extend the regime to on - demand right would make a lot of difference to a lot of viewer . I echo the point make by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , the former Lord Chancellor , about local tv . those channel provide valuable service and I think they could be include in the licensed public service channel definition in the Bill . allow some guarantee prominence for local tv service in the new tv ecology would help to ensure sustainability for that sector , which be increasingly important . my final point be about radio . I be a lifelong fan of radio , and I be impressed and surprise by how the medium be flourish in this area of infinite choice , particularly when it come to music listen . for year , people have think that the existence of service such as Spotify would kill off radio , but the opposite seem to be happen : there be more radio listening than ever . that be a tribute to all those in the radio sector , both BBC and commercial service , who have do an incredible job of preserve new generation of listener . as another word of congratulation to Ministers , I be delighted that , after some doubt , part 6 on the radio sector have be include in the Bill , because there be some very important protection that be need . as online listening grow , radio station be become increasingly reliant on global technology platform that produce smart speaker to reach their listener . it be important , at this stage in the development of radio , that we stop platform ' potential abuse of their market position by charge for access to UK radio service or insert their own advert in commercial radio service , so those protection be very welcome . on that point about the growth of the radio sector , do my right hon . friend agree that one of the real success story of recent year be the emergence of a new generation of digital community station to plug the gap of the local commercial station that have become part of national group and lose some of their local rootedness ? do he far agree that Ofcom should look at release more FM licence so that those new digital community station can grow , especially in area such as mine in west Wales , where take - up of digital radio be perhaps low than elsewhere ? I do , because in an era when the big medium have become completely global , what we use to call hyper - localism be important in all medium . Radio Ashford in my constituency do what it say on the tin — it be very local . it be strictly about the town and it compete with the BBC ' s offer on Radio Kent , which be broad and , like all BBC local radio , for a large part of the day be regional rather than even county - base . the capacity to have properly local service be very important . if I may suggest a way in which those welcome protection could be strengthen even far , Ministers should consider expand they to include online - only radio content such as podcast and catch - up radio content , and indeed the system in vehicle — that be where a significant proportion of radio listening take place — which be not protect in the Bill as it stand . it be important in that context that we give consideration to the community radio station that broadcast on FM — I have a number in my constituency , include Skye FM , two Lochs Radio , Nevis Radio — which be very often hand to mouth . it be important that Government agency conduct advertising through local radio station remember the importance of those community station and their high level of reach . they need to be give their fair share in that regard . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , who make a powerful point . to conclude , the Bill be welcome . many of the individual measure be welcome and necessary . some could and should be improve , and I be sure that they will be as the Bill be scrutinise in its various stage . overall , I be delighted that the Bill be now before the House , and I wish it , and the Ministers carry it through , well . I call the SNP spokesperson . I appreciate have the opportunity to lead for the SNP on Second Reading . my hon . friend the Member for Ochil and South Perthshire ( John Nicolson ) , who usually lead on Digital , Culture , Media and Sport , have be unable to come along , so I have step into the breach , as it be , and agree to manage the Media Bill for the SNP . although the Bill be welcome and take a number of positive step forward , I be concerned about how over - complicate some of it be . the Bill amend the Communications Act 2003 , the Broadcasting Act 1996 and the Broadcasting Act 1990 . apart from amendment to corporation act and tax act , I have not see anything quite this complicated . if I be a broadcaster or work in this area , I would find it difficult to find all the information I need even to comply with the legislation because of its complicated nature . the medium Bill mostly amend those three piece of legislation , as well as a few other in small technical way — small technical amendment be absolutely standard — but it have be do in a complicated way that will make it difficult to find some of the definition . I be look , for example , for the definition of " programme " . I be direct to the Communications Act 2003 , which direct I to the Broadcasting Act 1990 , which then tell I what the definition be . I have yet to find out the definition of " person " . perhaps the Minister could furnish I with information on where I could find that definition in those three piece of legislation . I do , however , find out that when it come to choose programme and organise programming , an algorithm can be count as a " person " if someone be assist by an algorithm . I would find it very helpful if the Minister point I in the direction of the definition of " person " , which be use a significant number of time in the Bill when it talk about a person who be in charge of programming . do the word " person " also relate to an entity or a group of people if they be in charge of programming ? it would be helpful to have more information on that . I be slightly concerned about other definition and use of word . the requirement for Ofcom to work out that there be a sufficiency of something without there be any clarity on what " sufficiency " mean be slightly concern , because something that I see as sufficient may not be see as sufficient by somebody else . if there be more information on what " sufficient " mean , there would be more clarity on the change to Channel 4 as a proportion of expenditure , for example , as oppose to a proportion of programming . " Sufficiency " be not sufficiently define in the Bill . the shadow Secretary of State mention the word " appropriate " in respect of the availability of public sector broadcaster through internet service , and raise concern about whether it should be re - term as " significant " . that would probably give those broadcaster the level of prominence that we expect and want they to have , so that people can access their service in the way that they want and expect . I agree that there could be a different way of do that . I will come to a number of different issue , but let I touch on the requirement on the prominence of service . that be important , and I be glad that the Government have choose to tackle the prominence of service . the order in which public service broadcaster appear — particularly for those who use Amazon Fire Sticks , for example — be important . as those broadcaster have responsibility that other broadcaster do not , it be important that they be give a level of primacy . however , I be concerned that the App Store and the Google Play Store be not include in the measure , give the way in which such organisation — particularly the App Store — have behave . they have say , " we can carry thing such as the BBC iPlayer or the STV player only if you give we a significant slice of your revenue . " that be not acceptable . if people look up the BBC iPlayer on the App Store , it should be the top result , rather than be place far down because Apple have have an argument with the BBC about it . it be inappropriate for Apple to charge the BBC significant amount of money for a level of prominence that the BBC should have by right as a public service broadcaster . that be important not just in relation to the software in the Fire Stick , for example — or however we choose to view our video - on - demand service — but in the prominence that public service broadcaster app , such as Channel 4 on demand and BBC iPlayer , be give . the same apply to BBC Sounds in radio access . those broadcaster should not be charge significant amount for that prominence . while I be on radio , I appreciate what have be say about ensure that Alexa and Siri provide the correct radio station . I would really like Alexa or Siri to play Taylor Swift when I ask for she , rather than rage against the machine . it be not that they be try to provide I with something else ; it be that they do not understand my scottish accent . improve the listening ability of those service so that they can play the song that I want would be incredibly helpful . I like the provision on advertising . in some case , it be not Alexa or Siri make decision on advertising ; it be tunein radio — or whichever programme Alexa or Siri be play through — that be make those decision . as long as that provision apply to how we hear advertising , rather than who deal with the background stuff , I be happy enough with the measure . I agree with the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) , who have just head out of the Chamber , on the importance of local radio . in my constituency , Station House Media Unit — know as shmu — do local magazine as well as a significant amount of local radio . it feel really root in our community in a way that , as the right hon . Member say , large station that have be take over by other company do not . I appreciate the level of child ' s content we have have , particularly on the BBC , have watch CBeebies with my child . when I be young , I go to a fancy dress party dress as a Tweenie . I can not remember whether I be Bella , Milo , Fizz or Jake , but I can tell the House that I do not have to look up those name , because I remember they . they be ingrain in my soul , have watch the show with my little sister . they be significantly young than I , which be why I mention such a recent television programme . Ofcom have have to scale up massively to service the provision of the Online Safety Act 2023 . I be appreciative of that , and I have a lot of time for the growth in capacity and the number of excellent people it have bring in to do the work . can the Minister give we a level of reassurance that , for the policing of this area , the writing of the regulation and guidance that this Bill will require and the different interaction that Ofcom will be have , in particular with video - on - demand service , it will have the number of individual and capacity and resource to be able to undertake such additional layer of work ? I be aware that Ofcom be do significant portion of work around broadcast already , but I do not want it to have to stretch itself when it be already have to grow at pace . I be concerned that there be not even the number of qualified individual to take on that work , give how specialised and important it be . can the Minister reassure I that he be have conversation at least with Ofcom about its capacity when this legislation come in ? a number of my colleague have mention the Gaelic language and the issue around it . of course , those could all be solve by devolve broadcasting to the Scottish Government , but in lieu of that , I will highlight some of the disparity . the Secretary of State be perhaps get a little confused between BBC Alba and MG Alba , which be two different organisation . [ interruption . ] alba — my pronunciation be nearly there . I be an east - coaster . the two organisation be different and operate differently . we appreciate the support be give to S4C , which be a good thing , but we have a disparity , as £ 89 million of licence fee be go to S4C , whereas only £ 10 million be go to the gaelic language . there be a requirement for a quota of at least 10 hour a week of Welsh language programming , but no requirement for a similar quota for Gaelic programming . I be concern by that . the hon . Member be make a very good point about the gaelic language . I absolutely hate to say this in this place , but my constituency have a few native gaelic speaker — there be so few of they . I pray that in a few year ' time another generation will have the language . Gaelic be in a vulnerable situation , which reinforce her point . I very much appreciate the hon . member ' s point . I go to visit a gaelic nursery in Aberdeen a couple of year ago . staff there be concerned about the reduction in Gaelic programming for child , because outside the nursery the child be not necessarily get the exposure to Gaelic that they might have have if they have live in Skye or the Western Isles . they be concerned that , just because they have choose not to live in those community , the language embed in those child and their ability to access tv programme in their native first language be significantly reduce . I be concern by the disparity . I hope the Minister appreciate that we be come from a good place in try to ensure the protection of Gaelic , some level of parity and that people across Scotland can access it . I will highlight specifically what the Bill state . it state that there have to be " a sufficient quantity of audiovisual content that be in , or mainly in , a recognise regional or minority language " . later , the Bill state that " ' recognise regional or minority language ' mean Welsh , the gaelic language as speak in Scotland , Irish , Scots , Ulster Scots or Cornish . " the Bill do not define what " a sufficient quantity " be . it do not say whether it will be measure on the basis of the percentage of people who speak that language in each of the country . that wording be concern , and give that there be a quota for Welsh programming , it be disappointing that there be not a similarly recognise quota for any of the other language . my hon . friend be make some strong point , and all of we on the SNP Benches support full funding for S4C , but it be specifically worth say that there be no index - link of the funding available for MG Alba . in many respect , the situation that gaelic broadcasting be now face be even bad than people might consider , because in real term the funding available for MG Alba will , by 2027 , be 50 % of what it be in 2008 . we be face an existential threat to the survival of Gaelic broadcasting . we can think about the breadth and depth of the programming . I have programme - making in Skye , include from Chris Young of Young Films , who be know for " the Inbetweeners " . he , for example , produce the excellent " Bannan " . we need to fund such broadcasting appropriately . I agree . we do not regret or feel angry at the Welsh language programming that be provide and the support for it . as my right hon . Friend say , we be look for parity , and the index - link of funding be important . we also need to recognise that the Scottish Government be already provide significant funding for the gaelic language and to MG Alba , but there be no parity in term of the licence fee . I have a few other thing I wish to say . sadly , the Bill finally say goodbye to teletext ; it be the end of teletext as we know it . it have not be in use since 2009 , but the Bill finally remove it from legislation . I also wish to talk about football game and how broadcasting and list work . list be the particular concern . the Secretary of State say that the list system be be revamp — I be not sure exactly what word she use but that be the direction she intend . however , the list system itself — the way in which category a and category b listing be choose — be not be revamp . no change be be make to that . my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) be unwell and unable to take part in today ' s debate , but he have do a huge amount of work on try to ensure that we can access scottish football game . it be incredibly important that we can see scottish football game in Scotland . the Broadcasting Act 1996 say : " ' national interest ' include interest within England , Scotland , Wales or Northern Ireland . " it do not say , " England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland " ; it say " or Northern Ireland " . give how popular Scotland ' s football team be in Scotland , its game should be class of national importance , especially as we have finally make it to the final of a tournament . that be wonderful and we want to be able to see those game . it be not fair that viewer in Scotland have to pay to see their national team play , whereas viewer everywhere else in the UK do not have to pay for the same privilege . this issue be important . I note the point that the shadow Secretary of State make about the Culture , Media and Sport Committee ' s digital right enable provision , and I agree that if enable provision could be make on digital right for sport event , that would be an important move . I have a couple more issue to raise . the first be on - demand service and the inclusion of the 30 - day requirement . unfortunately , the Bill do not make it clear whether that mean 30 consecutive day . it be important that the word " consecutive " be add unless precedent in other legislation suggest that " 30 day " mean 30 consecutive day . why be news exclude from that provision ? the right hon . member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) speak about the economic and cultural importance of our medium , but we must consider its democratic importance in ensure that knowledge be spread . I do not understand why the Minister and the Secretary of State have choose to exclude news from this 30 - day requirement on digital provision . the other thing that could have be clear be ensure that some of the provision be accessible . I know that the BBC have work hard on this , but we be not there yet , as some of the local news that be provide be nearly impossible to find . if I want to watch Aberdeen - specific news , or even Scotland - specific news , it be hard to find it and disentangle it from more national news . accessibility be require in that regard . this legislation provide for quite a lot of delegate power . I have not manage to make my way through all of they , but use the affirmative procedure often strike the right balance . use the draft affirmative procedure for a significant amount of the delegate power in this Bill be important . I be pleased that we have the Bill . I be concern about the lack of futureproofe in some of it and about the overcomplication , as some of the definition be difficult to follow and therefore may not achieve what the Government intend . the cultural sector be incredibly important to the entirety of the UK . it be incredibly important in Scotland , and we certainly will not oppose the Media Bill as it go forward . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I be delighted to speak in this debate , not least because although the Government have be commit to a media bill for a long time , it have always be with that well - wear caveat , " when parliamentary time allow " . I be really grateful to both the Secretary of State and the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) , for their kind word about the work of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee on the pre - legislative scrutiny of the Bill . I be pleased that one of our first recommendation to be adopt by the Government be to include the Bill in this session , and I be even more delighted that it have be introduce so quickly follow the King ' s Speech . so much have change since the last piece of major medium legislation be pass 20 year ago , in the day when broadcaster decide when their programme could be watch , tv be almost entirely analogue and only about 4 % of the country have any form of access to the internet . but not everything have change . public service broadcaster remain at the heart of the UK ' s medium ecosystem , provide content that enrich our culture , our society and our democracy , and radio remain resilient , despite the environment in which it operate change beyond recognition . it fall to we to pass legislation that both recognise the immense way in which technology and audience behaviour have change and preserve the future of our value psb and radio station for year to come . I be really pleased to see that the Government have accept the majority of our Committee ' s recommendation follow our hard work on the Bill . the change make the Bill more effective , close the loophole that allow an unregulated stream service to buy the right for a list sporting event and then stick it behind a pay wall . they make it more workable , improve the drafting of how the must - offer and must - carry carriage deal between psb and platform should be negotiate . they make the Bill more proportionate , exempt news and sport from the requirement for on - demand content to be available for 30 day if it be to count towards a PSB ' s remit . they make it more futureproofed , ensure that the definition of an internet radio service can be amend to reflect change audience habit or use of technology , and they make the Bill clear , by ensure that Channel 4 ' s sustainability duty be compatible with its exist statutory obligation . there remain a few area where the Bill will benefit from further discussion as it progress , and I would like to pick up on a few of those today . the first be the issue of genre , which some member have talk about . ensure prominence for our public service broadcaster be central to the Bill , but it be the obligation on they to provide high - quality and diverse programming that enable we to make the argument for prominence so incontrovertibly . the change to the public service broadcasting remit be significant . other than news and current affair , the Bill will remove the genre in the Communications Act 2003 — for example , religious and art programming , or child ' s programming ; I will not be draw into the trap of discuss my favourite , because my dad may well be watch the debate — and replace they with an obligation to provide programming that reflect the life and concern of the UK ' s different community and cultural interest and tradition . that simplify the remit of psb and the enforcement of it for Ofcom , but at what cost ? in our inquiry , the Committee find that these change have receive far less attention than other aspect of the Bill . funnily enough , it be something that the psb themselves do not want to linger on in their evidence to we , but that be all the more reason why we need to consider whether these change be the right one . it be true that much of what people regard as public service content be now provide by a wide range of provider beyond psb and sometimes for free — for example , on Sky Arts — but not all genre be serve in that way , and we need to be sure that the Bill get the balance right . with regard to prominence , obligation on our psb must be fairly balanced with the benefit that they be go to see . the hard it be to find public service broadcasting content , the less likely that content be to be watch , so psb need prominence on smart tv and streaming stick . that can not come soon enough , but those who follow our inquiry will know that there be a debate among stakeholder as to whether we keep the exist descriptor for electronic programming guide that psb ' prominence should be " appropriate " , or change it to " significant " . that sound like a really technical argument , but in the advanced user interface of today , what prominence look like vary considerably from device to device and from platform to platform , so it be really important . what be consider appropriate prominence be far more open to interpretation than before , which be why we support change " appropriate " to " significant " . that be one of the few recommendation we make that the Government do not accept . ultimately , what really matter be ensure that public service content be always carry and be always easy to find , so that be what we need to work through as the Bill progress . we also need to consider whether the Bill ' s " must carry " obligation on platform need align with the " must offer " obligation in the BBC ' s charter and framework agreement . be we aim for a level playing field between platform and all our psb , or only the commercial one ? the House need to explore that question , as well as whether the Government should extend the new prominence regime to local tv service . those service be give prominence on electronic programme guide , on either channel 7 or channel 8 , but the Bill do not give they prominence on smart tv . we need to decide whether that be the right direction . there be also place where I would be grateful if our minister provide more detail . our Committee recommend that the new video - on - demand code should apply to all platform in the same way that the broadcasting code apply to all broadcaster . however , the Government intend to apply that code only to platform with a large UK audience . I recognise the Government ' s argument that the legislation must be proportionate : clearly , apply the code to small , niche service such as a football team ' s on - demand service could unfairly and unnecessarily penalise they , with no overall audience protection . however , we need more indication from the Government of the type of service they have in mind . the Minister will probably say that no decision have be make , but Ministers will have already consider this issue as they develop the Bill and respond to the Select Committee ' s report , so I hope he will be able to say a bit more about what service he envisage be in scope . we also need a bit more clarity on a late addition to the Bill : the introduction of a new special clause for multi - sport event that be not in the draft Bill . that clause would apply to four group a event : the summer Olympics and Paralympics and the winter Olympics and Paralympics . currently , Ofcom consent be not require when there be genuine partnership — that is , full and comprehensive right on both side of the partnership — but the Bill will change that , with each partner only entitle to " adequate live coverage " . this morning , the Select Committee have a session on woman ' s sport and meet broadcaster , include the BBC ' s director of sport , Barbara Slater . she raise real concern about the impact of that clause , especially without any detail of what " adequate " mean . if we be to avoid PSB coverage of those list event be undermine by the Bill , we need clarity . why do Ministers add that clause ? what be wrong with the current rule ? we need to make sure that we protect those moment of national importance , and that the Bill do not lead to any unintended consequence . turn to radio , there be place where we could look again at what be cover by the legislation . as member have already hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) , on - demand content from licensed radio station be not cover by the Bill , nor be any online - only station , yet some 10 million adult listen to podcast every week and some of our big broadcaster have online - only station . we all know how incredibly important radio be — it be the most trusted medium in the UK — and , in particular , how important local radio be . More than anything , the public reaction to the BBC ' s change to local radio bring that home . share content across large area risk undermine the sense of localness that have , until now , make BBC local radio really distinct . the measure to protect radio be some of the most important part of the Bill , and we need to reflect on whether they go far enough . ultimately , of course , there be only one question to ask of any piece of medium legislation : do it deliver for its audience ? first , the Bill be critical to the sustainability of our psb . while those broadcaster do not always get everything right , they provide huge value for audience : they be the broadcaster who entertain we , who teach we , and who show we our national sporting triumph — and , quite often , our defeat . secondly , the Bill be critical if viewer be to be confident that all tv - like content , whether broadcast or on demand , will be subject to the same or similar standard . thirdly , this Bill be critical to the future of radio , where station be increasingly dependent on online platform for access to listener . this Bill seek to ensure that radio remain the strong , trust medium that it be today . yes , there be more discussion to be have on the exact content of the Bill , but it do deliver for audience , which be why I be so pleased to hear that it have support from across the House and why I want to see it come into law as soon as possible . I want to start by express my party ' s broad support for this Bill , which be timely . what a change we have see since 2003 when the Communications Act be pass : it be a massive change . the new legislation be crucial for public sector broadcaster , and I therefore believe that time be of the essence . however , I be treat this debate as a bit like a tutorial in which we will have an interesting exchange of idea . on behalf of my party , I will reserve our opinion — in the light of certain reservation that I will express — and we shall be abstain on the Bill tonight . that do not in any way indicate that we do not support the thrust of the Bill , and I think that need to be understand . the first concern I would air be the removal of some regulation about local broadcasting . we have hear from all around the Chamber the importance of local broadcasting , include what it mean in platforme voice and story from across the nation and region , not least the highland , where I come from . I think this be a good point at which to unreservedly add my support to my colleague — one across the Minch , the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Angus Brendan MacNeil ) ; another to the south of I , the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) ; and the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) — in say that it be crucially important that we get it right with regard to Gaelic . as I say in an intervention , it sadden I to say this , but the situation of the language be precarious and we need to do everything possible to secure its future . I be sure the hon . Gentleman would agree that there should be some sort of legislative underpinning and support for Gaelic broadcasting . indeed , BBC Alba have ask for that and point that out . yes , the hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct . furthermore , as we know , local radio — and , as be express by the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , who be no long with we , the same be true of local television — be absolutely fundamental to the proper functioning of local democracy . I know this only too well , and in some way I regret it . let I give Members , for their light amusement , a cautionary tale . when I be first elect to be a member of Ross and Cromarty District Council a long time ago — I be once upon a time the young member of the council — my young brother be a broadcaster on Moray Firth Radio , our local radio station , which be still alive and well today . he think it would be kind to I to put I on his chat show on a Saturday morning call " the Chipboard Table " just day after I be first elect . he sit I down — this be live — and he say , " Jamie , last night we have a dram together , and you tell I that you feel your fellow councillor be quite creative in the way they complete their expense . " this lead to an indifferent start to a career in local government , but that be one of the scar I bear . luckily , it be a long time ago . for accountability and throw a light on local democracy , local radio be absolutely crucial , and notwithstanding my experience , I would not have it any other way . on the issue of quota , the removal of Ofcom ' s responsibility to monitor the delivery of content in education , science and culture may risk content in these area decline . that would concern I because , as be eloquently express by the right hon . member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) , the soft power this country exert be about be british , but it also about reflect the different facet of our nation that English - speak country find absolutely fascinating . as the Bill progress , I will be look to ensure that Ofcom retain a statutory requirement to measure the output of each of these genre — language , culture or whatever — against , let we say for now , the benchmark of what we have at the moment . I do not wish to see any decline from that whatsoever . on accessibility , when it come to linear television , there be a requirement for 90 % of programme to be provide with subtitle , as we know . it be right that there should be great access to those thing . let I give the House another personal example . on a Sunday evening , a cousin of mine who be a little old than I come and have a meal with my wife and I , and she watch the television . she be a great friend and much love . she be also pretty deaf , and for some television programme we can get the subtitle up , but for other we can not . perhaps I be not very intelligent with it , but by gosh we ' ve try , and it be hugely frustrating that she can not see the word that be be say . the same apply to people with visual impairment — we be talk about signing and other way of help . the Liberal Democrat party will look to require that at least 80 % of on - demand tv content be subtitle , with 10 % audio describe and 5 % sign . that be our position at this stage . while I find it tricky to find the subtitle , another issue be also tricky to find . one of the most important aspect of the Bill be the call for public service broadcaster prominence , ensure that the like of BBC , Channel 4 and ITV be not only easy to find on any smart tv , but be also give due prominence . this be the existential issue for our public service broadcaster , and the question of how appropriate prominence will be define be vital . the liberal Democrats would like the current call for " appropriate " prominence be strengthen to " significant " prominence , and I believe we will be table amendment to see whether we can achieve that . the hon . Member be talk about a range of different issue , which highlight the fact that there be a lot of disparate concern about the Bill . do he share my concern that the draft programme motion do not include take oral evidence for the Bill , and do he understand why the Government have do that ? I believe that be a wise point , and we would be wise to heed it . when it come to Channel 4 , I believe I be not alone in have concern about plan to relax the publisher - broadcaster status , and about the potential risk that that pose to the unique contribution that the channel make to the diversity and sustainability of the independent production sector across the nation and region . again , that take I back to my early point about the sheer diversity of the product be part of our soft power , which be important to this country . however , there be a caveat . with the increase independent production quota and Channel 4 ' s prediction that any change will take at least five year to launch , that fundamental change might not lead to any market shock in the short term . but the proof of the pudding be in the eating , and we shall see . finally , let I turn to what be perhaps a core debating point today . section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 require new outlet to pay the cost — we know what that be all about . the Liberal Democrats stand firmly against that charge . the 2013 Bill follow the Leveson inquiry and the phone hack scandal , and the propose change will put at risk the balance between free speech and public safeguarding , all the while favour news publisher . one could say that that be a standard political stance in this debate , and perhaps Conservative Members would take a different view . however , let we consider one final point , which be important in term of the notion of british justice . this change would mean that anyone without substantial financial resource or deep pocket that can match the might of the newspaper would find it impossible to pursue legitimate grievance through the legal system . we need to think about that very deeply . what can the small man possibly do against the publishing giant ? that be hugely important and I think there be a warning here . with that I will conclude my remark . I sincerely hope that my career in this place will not include any more gaffe on live radio , but you can never tell , Madam Deputy Speaker , least of all from a highland Member of Parliament . a number of hon . member have mention how long it have be since the last major piece of medium legislation , but it be worth reflect on that period of change and what it mean . when the Communications Act 2003 be pass more than 20 year ago , Amazon be a relatively small online retailer selling music , book and video game , Netflix deliver video and dvd by mail order for people to watch at home , and YouTube do not exist . if we have ask someone then what a smart device be , they would probably have guess that it be a scientific calculator . there be no smart device , and the iPhone be still some year away from exist . the idea that every one of we would carry in our pocket a device allow we to watch live television whenever we like would not have be envisage , or people would have think that to be far off . that be significant not just because technology change the media landscape but because it have a massive impact on view habit . that in many way be the real challenge face by the public service broadcaster today . the Bill be a hugely welcome step towards address some of those need , but there will continue to be an ongoing challenge . all Ofcom datum be clear that , with the exception of the pandemic period when everyone watch a lot more television , public service broadcasting be decline . the minute people spend each day watch public service broadcasting be decline year on year . broadcaster face ongoing pressure not just from that audience decline but from rise cost through inflation for television production , which be run much fast than the consumer price index . that put an inevitable squeeze on budget . public broadcaster that have the luxury of make more of their own programme while raise money through subscription and other thing be well place to deal with that audience change . nevertheless , it be there . the big challenge that the BBC face be not about it not make brilliant programme , not have fantastic writer or not nurture brilliant talent ; it be that people be voluntarily decline to pay the licence fee simply because they feel their need in gather news or watch fantastic programming can be meet elsewhere . the challenge that Channel 4 have face be that , without the ability to invest in programme from which it can make money , it rely solely on advertiser revenue , and that revenue be under challenge all the time , so it be much hard for it to be sustainable and to plan for the future . I welcome the Government ' s introduction of measure in the Bill to change Channel 4 ' s remit . I understand the concern raise by company in the independent production sector , but I think they would recognise that that sector be totally different from when Channel 4 launch . at that time , a lot more BBC and ITV production be do in - house and there be no other route to television . Channel 4 create an opportunity for independent production company to launch business , make programme and gain an audience that otherwise would not have exist . now , there be huge opportunity for independent producer . while Channel 4 be an important part of that ecosystem , it be by no mean the only one , so the good thing we can do for the independent sector be ensure that Channel 4 be in as robust health as possible so that it can commission more , because 65 % or 70 % of a big tv company be worth a lot more than 100 % of a very small one , or one that be struggle to continue to exist . those be the ongoing challenge that the psb will face , and the fight for attention will only continue . People now be more distracted not only by video - on - demand service but by video gaming and other form of audio - visual entertainment . that be the backdrop against which the Bill be be introduce . the question of the degree of PSB prominence on connect device — modern television that be internet - connect and totally integrate with people ' s on - demand viewing habit — be incredibly important . whether that level of prominence be " significant " or " appropriate " be an important debate . be it enough simply to have the television schedule there on the device , with that schedule the live schedule rank in order on the electronic programming guide as we be use to see it ? how easy be that to find ? will people be constantly shift through menu for on - demand service , be those Netflix , Amazon , Sky programming or whatever , before they find the television guide ? we see in Ofcom ' s yearly audience analysis datum from its medium nation report that those under the age of 40 do not really regard television as a live product any more , unless they be watch the news or live sport ; it be an on - demand product . if we ask student audience what they think of the tv schedule , they would find the idea of go home , turn on a television , press the no . 3 button and watch live what have be preselecte for they , in a select order , completely anathema . young audience do not expect television to be a live product . they do not expect to go to the television guide to find what they want . in fact , audience analysis show that , increasingly , when people turn the television on , the first thing they do be turn to an on - demand service like Netflix to browse what be there — that be their primary act , rather than go to a channel . whether it be easy to find the schedule and see what be be show will be key to the debate on prominence . otherwise , the psb will continue to find it hard to have a share of voice and be notice in an environment where people be increasingly distract by what they want to see . that experience itself be fractured , as a consequence of the way that on - demand service be design . they be tailor to the user , so everyone will see a different screen when they turn they on . when everyone turn to Netflix , they see something different . they even see different tile advertise the same programme , tailor base on their past viewing habit . that be great for the consumer ; it make it much easy to navigate the service and find what they be look for , but it make it much hard for they to be challenge and surprised . what be the value and role of original british content , tell unique story of people on these island ? how easy will that be to find if people do not know to look for it and have not view it before ? those be the sort of question that Ofcom will have to consider . the Bill give Ofcom the power to issue guidance , but it be important that here in this House we be on top of what Ofcom analyse and recommend , and that we feel that whatever the final wording of the Bill , it ensure that psb get a fair share of voice . I do not even think about the tv schedule as something that people look at . I never look at a tv schedule . I do not know if my Fire Stick or my PlayStation have a tv schedule . on significant prominence , I be picture the BBC iPlayer app be at the top of the app list . do the hon . Gentleman agree that Ofcom should look at both those thing : how it appear on the screen and where the public service broadcaster be in any live schedule ? the hon . Lady make an important point . it should be easy to find through app store . although they be not directly in scope of the legislation because they be not broadcast format in their own right , that question should be ask — be it easy to find ? it should be easy to find on a connected device when it be turn on , and it should be easy to locate the app . Ofcom also have to consider whether the business model that underpin connected device be fair to public service broadcaster . there be no doubt that the business model for Amazon and Google be to try to create a connected device space where all the entertainment exist and be tailor to each person . they also want to build the ad tech into that , so that they be the principal beneficiary of the ad revenue , by monetise the placement of that content as well and divert it away from broadcaster who have traditionally sell audience to make money . that be the underlying problem that public service broadcasting face today . the sale of audience to generate advertising revenue to invest in programme — the model that have fuel independent public broadcasting for 50 year — be not break , but it do not work in the way it use to ; it be much more diffuse . the revenue challenge that come from that be extremely real . that be why , on Channel 4 , although I be pleased to see the Government ' s change to the remit , we need to keep a watching brief to see whether they go far enough . we have not go as far as Channel 4 ask to go in its counter - offer to privatisation , which be the ability to go to the market to raise money from private investor to create a programming fund that would invest £ 1 billion over two year in new programming . if we simply allow Channel 4 to acquire a stake in the making of programme that it will broadcast , which will make revenue in the future , will that be enough now to meet the challenge that it will face ? give the ongoing pressure this year on decline ad revenue for tv broadcasting , we need to make sure that that will be enough . we should not assume that the measure in the Bill , which be welcome , will be the last word on that . there may be more challenge to come . I would like to add two further point . it be right that we try to create more parity between the regulation of on - demand online service and broadcast television . if a viewer turn on their connected tv device , as far as they be concern Netflix be as much television as the BBC , and there should be some parity in the way the platform be regulate , the obligation they have to their user and the notification they give about the suitability of the content . that should apply to advertising too . often the debate we have be around advertising that target child , but child be not watch live television ; they be watch it on demand . the danger at the moment be that we have a highly regulate live broadcast television environment , but an almost completely unregulated online one . we should be far more worried about the ad rule that apply on YouTube than those on ITV , because that be where the child be . it be vital that the work on the Government ' s online advertising review be complete at pace . the project have be work on for a number of year . there need to be proper enforceability of the advertising code that have stand we in good stead in the broadcast world , but do not yet work in the same way online . finally , on media ownership and medium freedom , which the Secretary of State mention in her opening remark , we should give some consideration — maybe the Bill be not the right place — to the ownership of UK news company and news asset , particularly if they be acquire by organisation base in jurisdiction overseas where maybe the regard for press freedom be not the same as it be in the UK . the Bill do not address that concern . if we have an ongoing concern about a vibrant news medium landscape , there should be some concern about the company that own medium organisation — where they be base , what their interest be and what interest they have in the way the news be report here . we do not want to see the press regulate in any way — we want to avoid that and in many way the measure in the Bill be a nod to that as well — but we want certainty about safeguard media freedom in the future . my hon . friend make a very interesting point about news medium . what do he think about the ownership of public service broadcaster ? should there be legislation in place to consider who be allow to own a public service broadcaster ? for example , ITV could be buy and sell tomorrow on the stock exchange to somebody in a different country who have very different value and view on what content might be put out on ITV . should that be in scope as well ? my hon . friend make a very interesting point . whether it be ITV or a newspaper such as the Daily Telegraph , which be currently up for sale , what be the motivation of someone acquire they ? we might assume they would not seek to censor what be go on , but would they have a different view on creative content , news , the story they want to tell and what obligation exist for they ? that be not something we have have to consider before , but in a market where such medium asset be attractive to global investor , we should not be unconcerned about the motivation of investor who might buy those company . M ò run tae , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to be call to speak in this debate . there have be much discussion about the impact of the Bill on Gaelic broadcasting and it be that that I would like to reflect on today . I think it be fair to say that in decade go by — 50 or 60 year ago — there be largely indifference to the Gaelic language right across the political divide . that , I be glad to say , have change . let I state that the gaelic language belong to absolutely everyone and it be right that we continue to look at the support we can give to the language on that cross - party basis . it be important that we retain that consensus . the reason I mention 50 or 60 year ago be because in the 1970 some fundamental change take place . in some respect , there be a renaissance for the language . we have the establishment of the Gaelic college in Skye — we have just celebrate its 50th anniversary — and there be everything that happen in a wide sense in music . there be the arrival , again on the island of Skye , of the rock bank Runrig , which give a voice to young people in the language . we think , of course , about what the West Highland Free Press do . my friend the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) reflect on the diminish number of gaelic speaker in his constituency , but it be important that we retain a sense of perspective . there be some very strong sign about not just the durability but the growth of the language . I can think specifically about gaelic education . in my own constituency , I have a number of Gaelic primary school , most recently in Portree . I be delighted that the number of child go to the gaelic school in Portree be way in excess of the number go to the english language school . there be some very strong and encouraging sign . in the light of all of that , what we do and in particular what we do in relation to the Media Bill be important . it be worth reflect that the Government have in the past say some very encouraging thing about recognise the importance of the gaelic language . accord to a White Paper publish on 28 April 2022 , " the Government recognise the hugely valuable contribution that MG Alba make to the life and wellbee of gaelic speaker across Scotland and the UK , include through its unique partnership with the BBC in the provision of BBC ALBA . such a partnership must ensure high quality , diverse gaelic language content continue to be readily available so that gaelic culture be protect in the year to come . we also recognise that certainty of future funding be important for MG ALBA be able to deliver for gaelic speaker . " I endorse those word , and I make an appeal to the Minister : that protection of Gaelic really must be include in the Bill , so that we can then have the necessary discussion about the responsibility we all have to ensure that there be appropriate support for the language . we have hear a great deal today about remote and rural area , and I think of the contribution that be make by Gaelic broadcasting in such area . I think of the production facility in Inverness , Stornoway and , indeed , Portree in my constituency , associate with the Gaelic college . we be home to some film production activity — I refer early to Chris Young , who produce " the Inbetweeners " — and I think of some of the gaelic drama that have be produce , such as " Bannan " . we often hear about programme in the UK be sell internationally , and this gaelic drama have be sell internationally , although admittedly on a shoestring . I have always be overwhelm when I have have the opportunity to be on site with the 70 or 80 people produce that masterpiece of gaelic drama . all of that show what we be capable of do throughout these island , and it show the ability of people to contribute gaelic content , but of course it have to be fund . as I mention early , we face a cataclysmic challenge because of the real - term decline in funding for MG Alba ever since its foundation in 2008 . we be at a crisis point . I welcome the funding that have go into S4C , but my goodness , if we could get even a fraction of that funding , what a difference it would make . let we think about not just the social and cultural contribution , but the economic contribution generate by the investment that we have have . MG Alba sustain about 340 full - time job , half of which be in the highland and island , and with its annual funding of £ 13 million , it produce gross value add of more than £ 17 million . we be talk about a return of £ 1 . 34 for every £ 1 of investment . just think how it would be if we could increase that , and see more of that economic contribution in our remote and rural area ! I appeal to the good sense of the Minister , because I know that he have much good sense . I appeal to he to respond positively when he wind up the debate . let we come together in this Chamber and collectively accept our responsibility for Gaelic , as we have for other language . let we make sure that this station — for MG Alba be a station — can flourish , and that BBC Radio nan G à idheal can flourish . again , m ò run tae , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to contribute to this Second Reading debate on a Bill that come at a crucial time for our creative industry and broadcaster . several broadcaster be already apply for the 10 - year licence , and we need to have a settle approach to how they can be grant . I should refer the House to my entry in the transparency register , as a former Minister , and to the interest that I have declare in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my right hon . friend the Member for North Thanet ( Sir Roger Gale ) , who be in the Chair early , be the director of BBC child ' s television in the 1970 . a number of child ' s programme have already be mention , but , for what it be worth , my favourite be " Paddington " , " pipkin " and " Mr Benn " . it have often be say by the person who create " Mr Benn " that child ' s television have to attract not only old child but adult , who would often sit watch it alongside the child . it have spark many a career , include the career of member of the other House but also those of some of the great broadcaster of today . the medium Bill reflect the change in technology and in how people consume broadcast in a variety of way . a lot more be consume on the go or on demand , and I regret that there be few community moment — water cooler moment , as they use to be call — but broadcasting still play a vital role in shape the conversation , through the fun and joy that people have in watch , as well as in expose some of the interesting challenge we face . in this broad landscape and market , I welcome the global online platform . they have help the viewer and the creative industry , but they have also bring a risk for our public service broadcaster , particularly our commercial public service broadcaster , who have responsibility that those other organisation simply do not have . it be important , if those broadcaster be to be viable and sustainable , that we recognise the context in which those platform land . there have be at least one call from the shadow Secretary of State for the use of Henry VIII power , and that be because we need to be flexible . the last time we have similar legislation be in 2003 . by the time the Bill go through , we will need to have that flexibility build in — I hope it go through at pace , because it really matter to our broadcaster and the industry that it do . as my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) say , there be certain area in which Channel 4 would have like the flexibility to go slightly far . let we build that flexibility in now and , rather than see Henry VIII power as something bad , look at what they can be use for . I must admit that in my role as a Minister , I find that one of the most flexible piece of legislation be the Environmental Protection Act 1990 . it be by have Henry VIII power that we be able to keep pace with the challenge we face , and we should welcome the opportunity to add such power to this Bill . I thank the member of both Houses who perform the pre - legislative scrutiny . that have make it a strong Bill , and it be important that the Government have largely listen . that show maturity , and it be why I think the Bill will be a success . I echo Members ' comment about ensure that we use the word " significant " and not just " appropriate " in propose new section 362AM and 362AO to the Communications Act 2003 , because we need to give clarity and send a firm message to Ofcom . at the end of the day , Ofcom be an independent regulator . it do not represent people right across the country , and it be important that Parliament have a voice in push or promote that . the Select Committee refer in its report to the use of negative statutory instrument by the Government . I ask the Government to think again slightly . have experience a variety of legislation , I know that the role of negative si be well establish and that they represent about 80 % of the legislation that we make . they be use to update minor point . however , it be not necessary to leave such element to Ofcom or to take these thing to court when Parliament can assert that role . I be really pleased about the change in Government policy that have lead to the part of the Bill that relate to Channel 4 . it be under Margaret Thatcher ' s Conservative Government in 1982 that Channel 4 be create as a way to have a public sector broadcaster that be still state own but that generate all its revenue privately rather than through the licence fee , and what a job it have do . S4C be , of course , create on the same day . I very much welcome the special status that Channel 4 will continue to have , as well as the new power that give it the freedom and flexibility to produce . I also welcome the commitment still be make to the independent sector , and I know that Channel 4 will not suddenly rush to bring everything in - house — far from it . why would it , when the way it have do thing so far have be so successful ? I pay particular tribute to its exceptional chief executive , Alex Mahon , who have be a real champion for Channel 4 and the creative industry . long may she flourish . turn to the excellent ITV , I suggest that it really need a level playing field and this kind of opportunity , particularly when it come to global platform . the extra burden put on our public service broadcaster be important to the diversity of the tv that we enjoy , and ITV continue to go from strength to strength . just like Channel 4 , it have make transformation in its filming . Channel 4 ' s portrayal of the Paralympics in 2012 have be recognise around the world as a real game changer by the Paralympic movement . similarly , ITV broadcast brave coverage of the news and be spend a lot more money on go to some of the most challenging part of the world . other broadcaster include Sky have do similar thing . when we give Ofcom these power , we must send a strong message about the robust application and enforcement of prominence for psb on global online platform , on term that enable they to thrive and deliver their remit . much have be say about local radio , and a significant number of local radio station have be create in Suffolk Coastal follow the significant reduction in BBC Suffolk ' s very local content . although I regret that reduction , it have open up an opportunity for many more broadcaster . I welcome the provision in the Bill to make it easy for local radio station to broadcast and thrive . on part 7 , there be a lesson for all of we in the light of the Leveson inquiry that a knee - jerk reaction to a prominent public inquiry be not necessarily the good way to generate new legislation . I can see why people be so upset , and continue to be upset , when the medium seem to have the freedom to trash people ' s life and reputation , but it be not the right knee - jerk reaction . it be good that we never commence section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 and be now repeal it . I would be very concerned if the repeal lead to a rush of newspaper suddenly depart from the Independent Press Standards Organisation or Impress . I know that some newspaper have choose not to use either , but we should not actively encourage that choice through the Bill . this be a good Bill , and I hope the House will let the Government work at pace . the Bill be important for the commercial viability and sustainability of psb , none of which have the benefit of the licence fee , which mean that the BBC do not particularly need to work to generate income . I should say that I work at the BBC for six to nine month before become a Member of Parliament , and it have a very special place in UK life , but it be important that we have a wide range of psb . the Bill will help to keep psb sustainable for the future . I welcome this debate , and I strongly welcome the departure from the idea of sell off and privatise Channel 4 . it have be a very good channel that continue to do a lot of innovative thing . that it can develop its own content can only be a good thing , as it show the importance of public service broadcasting . we should reflect that the Bill be go in the direction of proper regulation of the medium , while recognise the value and importance of public service broadcasting . we should compare that with the United States , which , since the second world war , have systematically defunde public service broadcasting and have end up with news value essentially dominate by Fox News and nothing else . we should value the principle of public service broadcasting . I be particularly pleased that Gaelic and Welsh - language station be not only protect but support by the Bill , as they have greatly increase the speaking of Gaelic and Welsh , enhance and develop the culture of both Scotland and Wales . many of we often criticise journalist , but we very much value the idea of a free press and a free medium , which we do not always appear to have . we should think a little more about the multiple ownership of different medium outlet across tv , newspaper , radio and so on . the Bill be also about try to keep up with change technology and a change medium landscape . there be a time when radio be one thing , television be another , social medium have not be invent and newspaper be completely separate from all of they . all of those be now essentially merge into one , in some way or another : radio interview be televise and newspaper article appear on website , often with video . that be not a bad thing — it be often a good thing — but there be a universality to the medium , and many people get their information from online source . however , we should be slightly cautious because we , in this Chamber , be all media obsessive , I suppose . we probably read newspaper and listen to current affair programme more than anybody else in our society , so it be easy to forget that a significant proportion of the population do not watch very much television , have no access to smart phone , do not know how to use a computer and be completely lose in a digital divide . those people be increasingly isolate and leave behind . the Bill do not pretend to give an answer to that . I be not sure there be a simple answer , but we should recognise that a grow proportion of the population — not huge , but significant — often lose out on all kind of information as a result . I will briefly address the question of news value . I believe there be a high degree of bias in the way that a lot of news be report in our medium , notably international reporting on global affair . if something happen in the USA , Europe or whatever war be be follow at that time , be it the horror of Gaza or Ukraine , that be news , but if something happen in much of Africa , Latin America or south Asia , it be simply not report at all . the huge conflict go on in the Democratic Republic of Congo receive almost zero coverage in any of our write or broadcast medium . the problem of , say , indigenous community in Ecuador receive no coverage either . we need to think about how we can encourage all our medium to have a more global view when they report globally . the BBC have cut back on its global coverage significantly . it can not afford to have journalist all around the world , so it put they in the well know place — Brussels , Washington and so on — and have cut back on many other place . the only global channel that currently try to report on the whole world be al - Jazeera , which be fund entirely by the Qatar Government and royal family . we need diversity in broadcasting as well as in the way in which the news be choose . that apply to many other issue as well , include the reporting of environmental affair and debate about global warming . commercial medium be drive by the need to make money to survive , so it have no great incentive to do anything other than entertainment , because that be what bring in the audience and advertising . it do not necessarily provide information and education for the population . I realise Ofcom have to do a difficult balancing act , but we should be aware that the majority of the population no long look at the two alternative most of we in the Chamber grow up with — the BBC and ITV — but at a whole plethora of different news outlet . therefore , those people have a wide variety of news issue throw at they . a number of colleague have raise issue about local journalism and local paper , which also appear heavily online . I once work in a genuinely local paper — it be print on the same site where we write the story and it be part of the community . it then become part of a big group , then another big group and then an even big group . local paper across the country be actually not local at all . they be own by a medium group in a distant place and , if they be lucky , there be one or two journalist in the town in question and they live largely by press release . my friend , the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) , quite rightly commend the West Highland Free Press for its work . I remember that it be set up because of a lack of local reporting . there be a very serious determination by those who set it up to ensure that it be a genuinely independent paper that cover a huge part of Scotland and that be able to build community strength and link with it , and I think that the paper have be very successful in do that . a long distance away and in a completely different kind of community , the Camden New Journal group , which also include the Islington Tribune and other enterprise , be , again , a wholly independent group set up by the journalist who work on the paper when the previous owner essentially walk away from it . it be independent , it be local , and it be co - operatively run . it be also very , very successful , because it concentrate completely on the news and story within the local community and try to bring they forward . have newspaper and radio station that cover all language be also very important . we have talk about Scotland and Wales , but there be also a plethora of community in this country who want to hear stuff in their own language . I remember speak in this House , probably from this very spot , in the 1980 , try to defend London Greek Radio , which be set up as an independent Greek - speak radio station . it be raid 74 time by the Post Office and all its broadcasting equipment be take away — goodness know what happen to the 74 item of broadcasting equipment . eventually the station be give a licence , and it be now a very successful greek language radio station . there be many other language radio station all across the country , which be important . it be important for people grow up in bilingual community to be able to listen to thing in their own language , and for young people to feel that sense of belong to the Greek , to the Turkish , to the Somali or to any other community , as well as be able to communicate in English . that to I be the great value of local radio station . my final point be about social medium . when I go to meeting , I often ask people how many of they ever buy a newspaper . if the audience have nobody in it over the age of 50 , no hand go up . young people simply do not buy newspaper at all — they have no relationship with they . they rely completely on social medium for their news , information and idea . we all access social medium . we be all drive in social medium by various algorithm , some of which be own by people far away , who have patent those algorithm . they follow we , they follow our interest and they decide what news we ought to have . it be hardly a free medium when we be direct to the news that somebody want we to hear . it be not simple . it be not simple to regulate on what algorithms do , but we should be extremely well aware of it . we should also be aware that it be possible to set up a radio station — unless I be wrong about this Bill — that be purely online . there be no regulation of it whatsoever , other than the basic of libel law and thing such as that . that be an area that will grow . it be an area that be increase , and some of the online radio station have very large audience indeed . some of they be very good , and some of they less so , but we must be aware of that and the need in the long term for further regulation and control of the behaviour of algorithm and how they can influence opinion — politically , socially and commercially — and everything else in our life . we should just take a moment to think of the bravery of many journalist around the world , include those who have be kill in Gaza over the past few week ; those who be in prison in Egypt , in Russia and in a number of other country ; and those who risk everything in order to try to get the news out . they need support and protection in every way possible . I would also like to put it on record that we should reflect quite seriously on the situation face one of the world ' s well - know investigative journalist — that of Julian Assange , who have now spend almost five year in a maximum security prison for reveal uncomfortable truth about Iraq and other place . journalism at its good tell we the truth . at its bad , it be propaganda for somebody else and somebody very , very powerful . I agree with some of the comment of the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , in particular his comment about the bravery of journalist cover conflict around the world today . it be very doubtful that there will be a Division on the Bill this evening . we have have something of a love - in , with contribution from all party say that they support the Bill . I do not want to shatter that consensus , but I be go to do so . although it be clear that the opposition be not go to divide the House on Second Reading , I must say to they that , have they choose to do that , I would have support they . I would have do so purely because of the strength of my feeling about clause 50 , which repeal section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 . I believe consistency in this place matter , even though it might sometimes be elusive . the truth be that section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act be part of a Conservative - draft compromise follow the Leveson inquiry . it be a compromise in which I have a hand , and I be not about to vote against it , today or at any other point . the reason I support the thrust of the Leveson proposal at the time be not despite my be a conservative , but because I be a conservative , and true conservative believe in accountability . it be true conservative who , throughout history , have face down powerful vested interest and it be true conservative who will always look out for the underdog , whatever the consequence might be . the Leveson inquiry follow decade of failure on the part of the press to engage seriously with self - regulation , and the craven failure of this House over 70 year to act on the finding of no few than seven inquiry and Royal Commissions set up during that time . it be often the case that we never quite know when something that be know to be a problem will become a big story — a run story , as we call it in the medium . it be the hacking of the phone of Milly Dowler , the murder schoolgirl , that make this House decide to act . therefore it be a conservative Prime Minister at the time who condemn the Press Complaints Commission as wholly ineffective . it be a conservative Prime Minister who set up the inquiry . it be a conservative Prime Minister who choose Lord Justice Leveson to lead that inquiry — in part because Lord Justice Leveson be recognise as somebody who respect the press and believe passionately in the freedom of the press , and could therefore be rely upon to come up with a sensible set of proposal . it be a conservative Prime Minister who write the term of reference of the Leveson inquiry and a conservative Prime Minister who say that that inquiry should make policy recommendation to the Government . when that report come back , it be a conservative Prime Minister who state on the Floor of this House that we could not just say , " let ' s have one last chance saloon for the press again . " , because we have do that . when that report land — all 1 , 800 page , in four volume — my noble Friend Lord Cameron , then Prime Minister , ask Oliver Letwin to work out a way to implement the proposal of the Leveson inquiry . there follow a series of compromise to accommodate some of the concern of the press . first , while Lord Leveson have recommend that there should be a statutory body , preferably Ofcom , that would act as the recognition body , that be see to be problematic by the press . so Oliver Letwin come up with the rather ingenious idea of establish a Royal Charter for the self - regulation of the press . the press then raise concern that a future Government might be able unilaterally to change the term of that charter simply by bring forward Orders in Council . we accept that that be a very fair concern . paradoxically , the press then ask whether Parliament could safeguard the integrity of the Royal Charter by ensure that it could be amend or remove only if there be a super - majority of both Houses of Parliament and , in addition to that , a super - majority in the Scottish Parliament . finally , there be a lot of discussion about the editor ' code and who should hold the pen . the medium feel that exist editor should always hold the pen on the editor ' code , which be contrary to what Lord Leveson have suggest . again , however , to carry the press with we — as it have say that it would work with we if we make the concession that it want — we make that final concession to ensure that the editor ' code would always be write by the newspaper industry , not by any other independent body . at various stage during those multiple concession , Oliver Letwin ask I whether I would help to broach conversation with the Opposition party with a view to form a cross - party consensus on the matter , and I do so in good faith . at this point , I pay particular tribute to the Mother of the House , the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , who be at that time the shadow Secretary of State , and to the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) , who be then the Leader of the Opposition , for the way in which they approach the issue . the easy thing for any Opposition to do be simply to oppose everything for the sake of it , but on that issue , they recognise the importance of try to arrive at a consensus in Parliament for the good of civil society . I hope that you will not mind if I pay tribute to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , in your former guise as Opposition Chief Whip . I remember attend one meeting where it be somewhat presume that I would be able to turn up on the night with 70 conservative rebel to defeat the Government . you probably see the anguish on my face at the daunting prospect of have to do such a thing . you make everybody else in the room aware that whip ' office can , when they put their mind to it , be pretty good at burn off opposition . it be true that the victim of phone hacking be quite concerned about the level of compromise that politician be make on their behalf . I remember Hugh Grant be particularly sceptical of that . we get he in and say , " trust we ; we be go to do this . this be a cross - party consensus : all party be sign up to it . it will happen . " it be disappointing that , a decade on , Hugh Grant be be prove right because of the Government ' s action through the Bill . some month after we have put in place the royal charter for the self - regulation of the press , I meet Sir Alan Moses , who be the first inaugural chairman of the Independent Press Standards Organisation , the industry ' s own regulator . I remember say to Sir Alan , " IPSO be make good progress . it be an improvement on the pcc . it wouldn ' t have to do a great deal more in order for it to be a recognise regulator . why doesn ' t IPSO simply seek recognition ? " he say , " George , I completely agree with you . however , my contract of employment forbid I from say so publicly . " how be that for the freedom of speech that we hear so much about ? Sir Alan Moses , the inaugural chairman of IPSO , be subject to a gagging order , no less , that prevent he from say what he believe to be true . let I turn to the specific of section 40 , which put in place one of the key provision of Leveson ' s recommendation : the creation of incentive for an industry regulator to seek recognition . that be often misunderstood , for the provision of section 40 be symmetrical : not only do it protect innocent people who want redress and access to a process of arbitration , but it protect publisher from people with deep pocket who go to lawyer such as Carter - Ruck or Schillings and threaten litigation — through so - call slapp — to intimidate and bully publisher and prevent they from publish thing . have we put that in place and commenced section 40 , if a russian oligarch , for instance , have say , " if you print that , I will see you in court , " and all sort of injunction come forth from various lawyer , a publisher would have be able to say , " no , you win ' t . we will see you in arbitration . " that would have protect genuine investigative journalism in a way that have never be do before . the right hon . Gentleman be make a most interesting speech . he must be aware that the law relate to libel and so on be completely misshapen , in that it be totally a rich person ' s game . anyone without resource get threaten with libel and be silence immediately . they have no recourse to legal aid and no other way of deal with the situation other than either to accept something they believe to be wrong or to make themselves bankrupt try to defend themselves . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . the truth be that the system of arbitration , back up by the cost provision under section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 , protect small , plucky journalist work for small publisher as much as it protect the weak and vulnerable who could not afford legal action . it be important to note that the arbitration system envisage would only have engage at all where there be what be call a cause of action , which be to say where people have a case in law . the arbitration system would never have become overwhelmed , since there would have be a sifting process to take out simple complaint about inaccuracy and so forth . in essence , the system would have focus predominantly on the area of defamation and privacy . we even consider what I use to term the Private Eye test , which be to say that if we have a publication that for all sort of ideological reason have never join up to anything at all — bear in mind that Private Eye never even join the Press Complaints Commission — there be an option for they to be able to demonstrate adherence to the principle set out in the royal charter while not join a body . there be also a large area of discretion for the court on an individual case . while there be a strong margin of appreciation in favour of those who sign up , it be not black and white . the clause state that where it be " reasonable in the circumstance " for a court to find a different position , it have the right to do so . I be therefore generally critical , as the House can understand , of the repeal of section 40 , but I welcome the fact that the Government have commit to the continued existence of the royal charter on the self - regulation of the press and that they have no intention of bring forward any order in Council to disband the Press Recognition Panel . it be important to recognise that Leveson do not recommend that we need to take a legal provision through an Act of Parliament to give effect to these cost provision . his recommendation be that we or the court could use the Civil Procedure Act 1997 to set civil procedure rule to create a margin of appreciation and an incentive in favour of those who join an independent regulator . while the Government legislate in this place , albeit that they then fail to commence the order , it be entirely understandable that the Civil Procedure Rule Committee and the Master of the Rolls might have feel it inappropriate for they to act in this space . now that the Government have signal their intention to vacate this space , it be entirely open to the Master of the Rolls and the Civil Procedure Rule Committee to make their own civil procedure rule in this space to give effect to the Leveson inquiry . let we not forget that that inquiry be establish under the Inquiries Act 2005 and be explicitly reference in the royal charter . it would be fair and reasonable for the court to give consideration and weight to that fact . an important duty now fall to the Press Recognition Panel . that body , independent of Government , do not need to wait for advice or permission from Government ; it be entirely open to the Press Recognition Panel to put together a detailed report set out its recommendation for what the alternative incentive might be to encourage publisher to sign up to a recognise regulator . it may come up with some useful advice for all party in this House as they consider their manifesto go forward . in conclusion , I feel that the failure to commence the full architecture of the Leveson proposal be a terrible miss opportunity for the press , and I say that as one of the few member on these Benches who first come into Parliament with a brown Press Gallery pass . I know every single one of the journalist in the Press Gallery and the news organisation they work for , and I develop a strong appreciation and respect for the individual character of each and every one of those newspaper organisation — even the one that be often critical of the party on the Government Benches — as I understand their tradition . those of we who really believe in the freedom of the press and want to see the press thrive have in our mind that if it seek recognition , it would become distinguished from social medium and other news content . a decade ago , we be already see the start of so - call " fake news " and the idea put forward by Leveson be that a recognise regulator could be use as a Kitemark show a news organisation ' s commitment to ethical journalism . that would be a positive and would restore trust in our press , which have be lose over the year . the idea be that the Broadcasting Act 1996 , cover today in much of this Bill , would affect the regulated broadcaster , but that there would be a much more flexible , self - regulatory model for the press or other online content . we could also see , even 10 year ago , that there be go to be a convergence between broadcast medium , who would increasingly have online news content in write form , and the print medium , who would increasingly be online and would have podcast and video content . therefore , a blurring would take place in the traditional distinction between broadcast and print journalism . the great beauty of the architecture we put in place with the royal charter for the self - regulation of the press be that it enable there to be multiple regulator , some of which might specialise just in online news and other that might specialise just in the print press , with everything else in between . have we implement that , we would have have a great opportunity to restore trust in the truthfulness and integrity of journalism in this country . there be a final reason why I believe it be short - sighted of the press not to do this . when the court see that over a period of time there have be intransigence on the part of the press to take standard and genuine accountability seriously , and a craven weakness in this House to act in this space at all , they will make public policy decision . it be no good complain about slapp , privacy injunction and so forth when this House have fail to do even the most basic thing to put in place some sensible protection for our civil society . so I would have oppose this Bill on those ground alone , but I recognise that it contain much else that have cross - party support . I hope that the Government will consider remove clause 50 at a later stage of our consideration of this Bill . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on the Media Bill . I wish to focus narrowly on part 4 , which set out the provision on public service broadcasting and give Ofcom power to draft and enforce a video - on - demand code . the Bill propose to do that by extend audience protection measure , for example , age rating and content warning , that be currently enforce for broadcast medium and BBC iPlayer - only to all on - demand programme service . a number of colleague have mention how the medium landscape have evolve rapidly in our lifetime . I remember the black - and - white telly in my parent ' s lounge , with the choice of just three or four channel . I remember traditional linear tv , where we would all sit around to watch a programme and we would not answer the phone or the doorbell , because if we miss something , that be it . I remember my grandparent get a VHS player before we do in the 1980 and my grandma would record " Thomas the Tank Engine " and " Postman Pat " for we , and we would binge watch it when we go to stay with she . of course , so much have change since then , and when my child be young , they do not even understand the concept of linear tv . I remember go to stay with a family member who do not have a smart tv at the time and my child do not understand how they could not watch " octonaut " right that minute . so much have change in our lifetime . of course , there be many wonderful aspect of medium programming in this country — we have some fantastic content that be the envy of the world — but there be also some not - so - wonderful aspect , and there be lot of material out there that may be entertaining for adult but we definitely do not want child to see . that be the point of the Ofcom broadcasting code , which say for broadcast tv : " 1 . 1 : material that might seriously impair the physical , mental or moral development of people under eighteen must not be broadcast . 1 . 2 : in the provision of service , broadcaster must take all reasonable step to protect people under eighteen . 1 . 3 : child must also be protect by appropriate scheduling from material that be unsuitable for they . " a healthy family medium environment rely on parent be able to keep child safe by make sure they do not accidentally come upon content that be not suitable , and on parent have control over what be suitable for their own child . it go without say that young child should not be watch violence , sex , extreme language and all those kind of thing . we accept that as a society , and that be why we have rule and system in place to help parent and to stop child see unsuitable content . our traditional on - demand medium — cinema , DVD and VHS — be regulate by the British Board of Film Classification , which be a highly respect organisation that have be go for over 100 year . we be all familiar with the little triangle tell we that a film be a u , PG , 12 and so on . our tv scheduling be regulate by the broadcasting code , which mainly rely on the watershed so that broadcaster do not put out programme before 9 pm that child should not see . on demand present a new challenge for our broadcaster , because the watershed do not apply . by definition , all the content be available all the time , and therefore parent can not rely on the fact that it be before 9 o ' clock to know that a particular programme be safe . some commercial streaming service have voluntarily adopt the BBFC ' s rating . Netflix be a good example . it have adopt the u , PG , 12 and so on rating . that be really important , because the BBFC rating be some of the clear , most transparent and most respected in the whole world . the BBFC even have an app now where parent can look for any programme or film , and it will tell they the rating and exactly why that rating be give , so that parent can be fully inform about what child be go to watch . I visit the BBFC a couple of week ago — I highly recommend that to member ; it be more than willing to give briefing — to see how it rate film , trailer and programme . it be a hugely impressive organisation , with enormous level of trust from not just the content creator but the public . it survey 10 , 000 member of the public every four year to ask they about their attitude to violence , swearing , sex , drug and so on , to feed into its rating , so that there be buy - in from the public . some service have not opt into the BBFC rating or produce a suitable rating system of their own . the most significant player in this category be Disney + , which have an opaque system of age rating that can not be trust by parent . for example , the film " Avatar " , which I think most people would say be suitable for child , have a rating of 16 + , and yet a quite sinister adaptation of " a Christmas Carol " that involve nudity , horror , child molestation , force prostitution and a depiction of child drowning have a rating of 9 + . the problem be that when parent see that kind of discrepancy , and when the rating be opaque and there be no transparency about why thing be rate in the way they be , parent just remove the password , because they think , " I want my child to be able to see ' Avatar ' " . but in remove the password or change the setting on their account , they inadvertently enable child to watch a lot of material that be not suitable for they . clearly , Disney + and other streaming service need to be subject to the same standard as broadcast medium . if material be unsuitable for child , it be unsuitable whatever the platform on which it be view , and it be the intention of the Bill to remedy that . clause 38 will require Ofcom to review audience protection measure use by provider of all on - demand tier 1 programme service , include those that do not have their headquarters in the UK . in other word , the Bill seek to ensure that what we might call the new medium — stream content — be subject to the same audience protection measure , such as age rating , content warning , parental control and age assurance measure , as traditional and linear material such as cinema , dvd and broadcast tv . so far , so good — that be a laudable and much - need aim — but my question to the Government be , why reinvent the wheel ? why task Ofcom with another review and develop another new code , when we already have a world - lead regulatory framework in the BBFC ? why not instead extend the remit of the BBFC — an internationally trust organisation — and an age - rating system understand by million who already use stream medium , so that those familiar rating logo of U , PG , 15 and so on be visible on each and every programme on every streaming platform ? indeed , 88 % of parent find the BBFC rating on Netflix extremely helpful , so it would make sense to standardise these rating across all the major streaming platform . the platform would pay the cost — that be how the BBFC be fund , so it would not require a massive expansion of the BBFC . for example , the BBFC give the code and the transparent material for rating to Netflix ; Netflix police itself , and every so often , the BBFC will check that it be fully compliant with the way it regulate itself . there would be a clear advantage to extend that universal rating system across all streaming service : it would not be reinvent the wheel , and there be also serious question mark about Ofcom ' s capacity to deliver on both the requirement in this Bill and the significantly increase requirement place on it by the passage of the Online Safety Act 2023 . I urge the Minister to consider amend the Bill to use the BBFC and its code , rather than Ofcom , to achieve the aim of clause 38 . I also urge the Minister to consider extend the remit of the Bill ' s audience protection provision beyond broadcast and stream to all UK - accessible video content , include online . I appreciate that that would be a very significant expansion of the Bill , but if its purpose be to bring audience protection regulation up to date with the current and future medium landscape , we be just skirt around the issue if we do not include online content . indeed , the principle of part 4 of the Bill be to create that parity between online and offline . nowhere be that more need than in the much less regulated online space . I say that principally because of the proliferation of unregulated hardcore pornography on the internet — pornography that would be completely illegal in the offline world , on dvd or on streaming service — that be now be view by million , include child , and cause immense societal damage . we be not talk about erotic magazine pass by teenage boy around the bike shed , but extreme , violent , hardcore , repulsive and completely illegal material : violent rape , violent assault and incest . it be the most unimaginable , degrading material — material that be illegal offline on traditional platform , and always have be . if we be rightly convinced that it matter what people watch — that it matter that child be protect from strong content , whether they be watch it on tv , stream it on demand or see it on their phone — we have to apply the same principle to pornography . a third of the internet be pornography ; Pornhub have more user than Twitter , Instagram , Netflix , Pinterest , Zoom and LinkedIn put together . it be a $ 100 million industry , and algorithm draw user into more and more extreme material . the Government ' s own research make the link between view violent pornography and violence against woman and girl , yet the average age of first view in this country be 11 . we will never turn the tide on violence against woman and girl unless we recognise the role of pornography in condition man and boy to link violence with sexual pleasure . that be why I urge the Minister to bring online pornography content within the scope of the audience protection measure in the Bill . the Online Safety Act will go some way towards help in this space : its age verification provision will make it hard for under - 18 to access that content . I very much commend the Government on accept those amendment , which have cross - party support . but that Act miss an opportunity to crack down on online porn that would be completely illegal in the offline world — material that still proliferate online and , even with the new protection , will of course be access by some child . again , the BBFC can have a role here , because it be the BBFC ' s role to regulate offline porn , such as dvd , and certain adult website . it have a very effective working relationship with the adult industry and with payment provider , so if the BBFC establish that a particular adult platform have on it a video that be illegal and should be take down , it can contact the payment provider and ask they to deny payment to that website until the video be take down . do my hon . friend agree that the BBFC be also a very established brand that be trust and understand by the public , so the public would themselves have confidence if the BBFC be give the ability to act in this space ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be exactly why I be call for the BBFC to have a much great role in this Bill , but also for that role to be extend to the regulation of pornography . the BBFC have be go for over 100 year ; other country look to it and its rating . it have buy - in from the public and from the content creator themselves , so it be perfectly place to provide the kind of regulation and expertise we need . if we really want online and offline parity when it come to audience safety — of course we do , because it do not matter where this content be view ; it will have the same effect — we must look to include pornography in the scope of the Bill . I would go so far as to say that if the Government really want to leave a legacy of child protection and reduce violence against woman and girl , nothing be more important than prevent access to hardcore pornography that be , and always have be , illegal in the offline world . I welcome the Bill ; it contain some excellent provision . obviously , I have focus narrowly on one aspect of it , but I ask Ministers to consider mandate that all stream service use the BBFC ' s age verification rating , and extend audience protection measure to online content , especially violent pornography . I be delighted to see this Bill before the House today . it have be a long time come , and its arrival be extremely welcome . from a very young age , I want to be a broadcaster . so committed be I to this goal that I write to BBC Radio Oxford at the tender age of 15 , and complain that it do not produce any programme for teenager . somewhat to my surprise , it tell I to put my money where my mouth be , and invite I to go in and make they myself . my first series cover such weighty topic as spot and school dinner ; life as a teenager be rather more naive in that long ago era . after university , I join the BBC full time in its news and current affair department , work as a reporter , presenter and producer . as the Spice Girls , in a blaze of colour , herald the launch of Channel 5 in 1997 , I perch on the newsroom desk to prove that current affair do not have to be stuffy and boring . indeed , so keen be we to be modern and relevant that I be even allow to have a cameo as a newscaster in " Shaun of the Dead " . there be no great possible pinnacle of an on - air career , I then move behind the scene to work as an adviser to ITV for several year . I recount this biography not as an application to make a late appearance on the new series of " I ' m a Celebrity " — I feel these Benches have provide enough victim of that recently — but to show that I have be lucky enough to have some experience of the subject matter , and perhaps more importantly , to illustrate the wide range of the country ' s public service broadcasting landscape . all the broadcaster I have mention — the BBC , Channel 5 and ITV — have in common that they be psb , and it be on they that I wish to devote most of my remark . public service broadcasting be not just about news and current affair , crucial though they be ; it be about reflect all part of our country , not just the metropolitan elite , not just London — and , indeed , not just England , as we have hear from our colleague in the Scottish National party . it be also about show programme that do not just have an immediate commercial rationale . as one example , I think Channel 5 ' s commitment to child ' s programming be commendable , and its recent commission of an animate series with disabled lead character for pre - school child be incredibly important . as the Government themselves have state , this Bill will " reform the legal framework for the regulation of public service broadcasting " , and there can be no doubt that this be sorely need , because the medium and entertainment landscape , as we have hear several time , have change almost beyond recognition over the past 20 year . my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) and my hon . friend the Members for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) and for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) have touch on some of the circumstance we face in 2003 , such as watch analogue tv , Netflix still post dvd to its customer and Blockbuster Video still exist on our high street . YouTube , iPhones and Twitter have not be invent , yet they be the way in which we watch much of our content these day . let I add some other cultural memory of that year . Jemini — with a J — score " nul point " at eurovision , Cilla Black quit " Blind Date " live on air and Jonny Wilkinson score a last - minute drop goal that win the Rugby world cup and the nation ' s heart . that same year , 2003 , more than 19 million viewer be glue to their screen as the " Coronation Street " serial killer Richard Hillman abduct the Platts and drive the family into the canal . it be must - watch tv the length and breadth of the country . however , those tv audience number for drama could only be dream of today . indeed , the entire tv landscape be almost unrecognisable , thank to rapid development in technology that have in turn bring about fundamental change in viewing habit . today , 75 % of household have an on - demand streaming service , and accord to Ofcom , 90 % of 18 to 24 - year - old adult bypass tv channel and head straight to streaming , on - demand and social video service when they be look for something to watch . while the like of Netflix , Prime and Disney offer a panoply of great programming , they be not bind by the requirement on our public service broadcaster — the BBC , ITV , Channel 4 and Channel 5 . the responsibility that psb bear to present socially valuable content carry a burden , and it be only right that that be reflect in the regulatory regime . key to achieve that be ensure due prominence for psb on whatever device . at its simple , there be no value in have high quality , publicly important programming if viewer can not find it quickly and easily , yet that be increasingly the risk with the market as it be today . we be all familiar with the shift away from an on - screen list of tv programme — electronic programme guide — to a set of tile along the bottom of our screen , but whereas the low number on an old EPG could easily be reserve for the psb , the tile can be set in pretty much any order . inevitably , those link to the high pay provider of content , or otherwise prioritise , be frequently the first to be see . it can take many click on the remote to get to the small psb : channel 4 and 5 . I strongly welcome the Government ' s provision on the new online prominence regime , and I agree with ITV that a " clear mandate " must be " give to Ofcom for a muscular implementation of the Bill … on term that enable psb to flourish and deliver their remit . " I would be grateful if the Minister set out in a little more detail how he envisage Ofcom implement the new regime , and say whether he support the regulator take a bold stance to ensure that global company comply with our decision in Parliament for an appropriate level of prominence for our psb . I would also be grateful for reassurance that a secondary power to designate platform will be cast as broadly as necessary to achieve the aim of Bill . for example , that could potentially include gaming console , which I understand from much young colleague be often use to access PSB content . this be not just about watch the box in the corner of the room . the requirement to give psb prominence can not become a licence to print money by the platform carry they , so I welcome the Bill ' s proposal for a must - offer , must - carry regime , with an arbitration scheme as a backstop . the other side of the coin be that the privilege of prominence carry with it a duty , and nowhere more so than at the BBC . it must do well if it be to retain its hallowed position as the most prominent and privileged of the psb , because it be fund by all of we through the licence fee . I have say before that I believe that that funding method be live on borrow time ; it be an anachronistic and frankly regressive tax . during my 12 year as a magistrate , I see the painful impact , particularly on some woman , of the draconian measure that be take against those who can not afford to pay that licence . although the future of the licence fee be not part of today ' s debate , the funding model put additional and serious duty on the BBC as a PSB . I fear that the BBC be no long the organisation that I join more than 30 year ago . we be all familiar with the grow torrent of criticism , not least of aspect of its coverage of the middle east crisis . although there be undoubtedly some phenomenally good and brave journalist in the field , there have also be some appalling and inexcusable lapse in the BBC ' s report . responsibility for that must go to the very top of the newsroom , and it must always be remember that the fact be far more important than a juicy headline . I fear that if it be not careful , BBC Verify will have to start scrutinise its own newsroom , and that be not the idea of it in the first place . leave aside the newsroom , when pensioner start pay the licence fee again , I have a large number of they in my constituency . three of they make contact with I , one of whom object , and two of whom be try to pay in an old - fashioned way that the BBC ' s agent could not cope with . that show that the licence subscription system work pretty well and be welcome . I say to my hon . friend that if we have the alternative to the licence fee , or some other kind of household impost , we would have a subscription where the BBC stop serve everyone in the country , and start serve those who choose to pay . as it be a national institution , we still face the question put by the Canadian , Graham Spry , nearly 100 year ago : " it be a choice between the state and the United States . " let we choose the state and make it a public broadcaster still . I thank the Father of the House for his intervention . he raise important point , which be why we will need to have a long and detailed debate on the future of the licence fee at another time . I choose my word relatively carefully in say that I hope the licence fee be live on borrow time , rather than say that the end must come immediately . my hon . friend raise point that will have to be address before we move to another system , but I personally feel that the current model be not sustainable in the medium to long term . it be not just I who have raise concern about the BBC . accord to the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism , trust in BBC News have plummet from 75 % in 2018 to 55 % in 2022 . that trend clearly can not continue . I have focus my remark principally on broadcaster , as that be where the majority of my experience lie , but I will turn for a moment to the print medium . I listen carefully to the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , and I be afraid to disappoint he but I agree rather more with my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) on section 40 . I be glad to see the Bill remove that sword of Damocles from newspaper . it strike I that , although it be never commence , it loom over paper and magazine as a potential form of state control that would have be unconscionable interference in the freedom of the press . while I have many quibble with both national and local newspaper about how they cover some story , I feel that the draconian measure in section 40 be an entirely disproportionate way to tackle complaint . rise — I will make one or two more point , just in case they answer my right hon . friend ' s question , but I will certainly give way in a moment . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on media freedom , it be a surprise to I that it be ever consider appropriate to oblige the publisher to pay the cost of both side in a legal claim , even if the publication win the case . I know that that stance be take by the organisation reporter without Borders . thankfully , the Bill will put that right , and I be reassure that the industry ' s own action in recent year in set up its own regulator , IPSO , and beef up internal complaint handle procedure have prove effective , without the need for further statutory intervention . obviously , the easy way for any publisher to avoid the cost provision would be to seek recognition . what be it about the Leveson recommendation that my hon . friend disagree with so much ? what in the royal charter for the self - regulation of the press do he find objectionable and impossible for a news organisation to subscribe to ? as I just outline , my principal concern be about the suggestion that a publisher would have to pay the loser ' s cost , irrespective of what those cost could be . the Government have consider the many factor in play in reach this decision . it be important to say that this be not a licence for newspaper to print whatever they wish — I hope that be understand in my local area by the Bucks Herald and the Bucks Free Press . there be undoubtedly time when the line between fact , comment and insinuation seem to be ever thin . self - regulation bring with it a responsibility to get article right first time , as well as to give sufficient opportunity for a right to reply and appropriate space for both side of the story . I hope that newspaper owner and editor will take the opportunity of the repeal of section 40 to redouble their effort to justify the trust we be put in they to work to the high standard . the medium Bill be essential to secure the long - term future of our public service broadcaster . More than that , it give confidence to our nation ' s wide creative economy . we need to ensure that the Bill get on to the statute book as smoothly and quickly as possible . I have not propose amendment or call for specific change because I recognise the urgency . the industry have work closely with the Department for many month , if not year . as a result , I believe that we have before we a Bill that be well think - out , fit for the future and fair to all . I be delighted to give it my enthusiastic support . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) . I fear that I may repeat much of what he just say . I be pleased to be speak in this debate , a week on from the King ' s Speech debate in which I spend quite a bit of time call on the Government to get on and introduce the Media Bill . for once , they listen to I — that ' s nice . the medium Bill we be debate be the first piece of medium legislation for 20 year . the medium landscape have change beyond belief in the last two decade — it be vastly different from the world we live in 20 year ago — so the Bill be vital to support broadcaster and audience in the modern age . as the medium landscape have change , it be important that we support legislation without delay to give certainty to this important sector . we should recognise that the Bill will probably govern the media landscape for the next 20 year , so it must be forward - think , outward - look and open , just as the previous legislation be . I declare my interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary medium group and the all - party parliamentary group on commercial radio . let I start by say that I welcome the Bill , which respond well to the need of the sector . because of time limitation , I will focus my remark on three specific area of the Bill . I will do something that I rarely do , and put television ahead of radio . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to simplify the exist remit for public service broadcaster . psb be what make our television landscape renowne around the world , but they face unprecedented competition for viewer , programming content and talent in an era when global streaming service such as Netflix and Amazon Prime be produce original content and become increasingly dominant in the market . it be good that we have more content producer , but even well , they be choose to make content here in the UK because of our regulatory framework . tv prominence be about ensure that UK viewer can easily find public service content that they value . we be live in an increasingly global marketplace , but there be still an appetite for programme that reflect british value . in fact , around seven in 10 UK adult want UK life and culture to be represent on screen , and a similar number agree that psb make programme design for UK audience . why be it important that we introduce legislation to protect psb ? surely , viewer will want to watch the programme that they make . until now , in return for provide public service content , the Government , through Ofcom , have allocate frequency to broadcaster . in a relatively uncomplicated world , those channel have be easy to find on electronic programme guide : ITV , and stv in Scotland , on channel 3 ; Channel 4 and Channel 5 on their respective channel . once someone have tune in their tv to the near transmitter , they press the number on their remote control and the channel be there . in a future world where the internet be use to deliver the linear tv and video on demand , the tech company and platform will decide where product and programme appear . in fact , at the moment , if Samsung or LG decide not to include the BBC iPlayer app on their tv screen , there be nothing the BBC , UK viewer or the Government could do about it . if Amazon decide to double the charge for Channel 4 ' s on - demand service to appear on its Fire Stick , there be little Channel 4 could do about it . from speak to Channel 4 , I know that when Amazon move the location of the Channel 4 app on the Fire Stick , there be a significant alteration in the viewing of Channel 4 . it matter where the app be locate on the relevant platform . if we want to make sure that british viewer can easily find BBC , ITV , Channel 4 and Channel 5 , and stv in Scotland and S4C in Wales , we need to agree the framework that will ensure that platform carry those service . I fully support that . I also urge the Government to look carefully at use the word " significant " rather than " appropriate " . that will determine where the channel be find on those platform . I wholeheartedly agree that it be not just about the schedule . as I say early , I be not aware that we have a schedule . we do not use Freeview ; we open the Fire Stick or PlayStation and look at the app . the prominence of the app be important . if someone do not have terrestrial tv or an aerial hook up , that be the only way that they be able to consume the public service broadcast content . there may be an age divide that determine whether someone look at an electronic programme guide or the Radio Times , or whether they just look for a tile . the notion that viewer want to continue to use linear tv be important . that be why it be so critical that we legislate in the right way to make sure that british viewer can find it . the change in the Bill will impact Channel 4 more than any other PSB , give its unique publisher - broadcaster licence . Channel 4 ' s status , introduce by the Conservative Government back in the 1980 , have significantly aid the development of the independent production sector in the UK over the last 40 year , which be now worth nearly £ 4 billion . the removal of the publisher - broadcaster restriction will allow for Channel 4 to produce its own content , as oppose to simply commission or acquire all of its content from third party . why do that matter ? for the first time , it will allow Channel 4 , when it produce content , to own the right for that content , which it can then sell around the world , create another stream of revenue which will allow product and programme to be fund on Channel 4 . the Government have announce plan to increase Channel 4 ' s independent production quota as part of the change . however , there will be many small production company in area such as the north - west of England , which have see a rapid growth in independent production business , who be still unsure about the full impact the change will have for they . will the Minister , in his response , expand a little more on what the change will mean for those business and give some assurance that they will still be able to thrive once Channel 4 receive its new licence and the Bill receive Royal Assent ? Channel 4 have indicate that it will maintain its exist commitment to spend 50 % of its budget for main channel commission outside London . that be really important to regional production . Ofcom have announce that it will be consult on whether change will need to be make to Channel 4 ' s regional programming make quota . be the Minister able to provide a timeline for that consultation , so we know when any change will come into effect ? I want to touch on local tv and echo some of the comment from other hon . and right hon . member . I have receive representation from the local tv network who be concerned that the current Bill do not guarantee local tv service prominence in the new tv ecology , and neither do it grant power on a par with those of local radio service . at some point , the sector will start to provide stream linear programme service . will the Government be give consideration to include local tv as part of the licensed public service channel designation in the Bill to help ensure sustainability for the sector ? it really be important that there be an understanding for this sector go forward , because it be make decision today on the future of its business plan . finally on tv , if we be look to the next 20 year , because this be the only Bill we be likely to see in the medium landscape , we should be conscious that the previous broadcasting Bill run for 20 year . on the Government ' s management of a digital terrestrial television switchover , I have be reassure in my conversation with the Minister that he want terrestrial television to remain accessible for the foreseeable future . I very much agree with he on that . when he be sum up , could he give an indication of the criterion he might want to set before broadcast tv service on Freeview be consider for switch off ? that be in place for DAB digital radio . there be a clear criterion in term of when that might happen . thing have move many , many time over the year , but it would be helpful for the digital terrestrial sector to understand what the Government might be think . before I turn to the provision on radio , may I put on record my congratulation to all those who have work in commercial radio over the past 50 year ? independent local radio , as we once know it , celebrate its 50th anniversary just a few week ago . it be 50 year ago in October since LBC and Capital Radio arrive on our airwave in the capital , 50 year since Radio Clyde in Glasgow launch and 50 year since BRMB in Birmingham launch . they be the four station in 1973 that appear on our am radio . over the 50 year , we have see a plethora of local , regional and national station arrive on AM , FM , DAB and now online via Radioplayer and smart speaker . today , commercial radio be deliver record audience . back in the early 1980 , we be all convince that video be go to kill the radio star . actually , radio be in rude health . we have regional brand , national station and hyperlocal service focus on their own town and city that be do remarkably well . we should all recognise in this House how strong commercial radio be today and how much we value the service that people who work in that sector provide for we . there be unanimous agreement across the BBC , and across commercial and community radio , that the Bill , on the whole , work for radio . it contain crucial measure that will help to safeguard the future in the face of change technology and shift in listening habit . the radio sector continue to deliver significant public value , provide trust news , entertainment and — particularly important — companionship for about 50 million listener every week . UK radio broadcaster make a substantial contribution to the creative industry , and BBC and commercial radio combine generate more than £ 1 . 5 billion in gross value add for the UK economy . I especially welcome the provision to support the future of the UK radio industry on voice - activate smart speaker platform , and the removal of outdated regulatory burden such as music format on analogue licence for commercial radio station . when there be a limited number of station in each market , it be right for the Government to regulate the number of station that could provide each particular type of service , but today , when there be a great many service , it should be for the market to decide . if country music be not work , it be possible to switch to jazz without spend too much time bother the regulator . there be , however , a few part of the Bill that I should like the Minister to clarify for the industry . part 5 deal with the safeguarding of local news and information on DAB service , and it would be helpful if the Minister could explain how those power will work in practice . for instance , how would a multiplex decide which service must carry local news ? would the multiplex owner be responsible for the enforcement against a digital sound service provider , or would that be the responsibility of Ofcom ? what would happen if a service carry local news stop broadcast ? would the obligation be transfer to another service holder , or to the multiplex owner ? as for Ofcom ' s new role in produce guideline for the regular broadcast of local news , can the Minister tell we when and how Ofcom will be consult on that process ? part 6 contain clause relate to futureproofe . will there be scope for expansion of the provision to cover on - demand and online - only radio content provide by UK broadcaster , as oppose to linear content ? finally , may I ask whether the Government will consider an amendment to protect access to radio in car , which still account for about a quarter of all radio listening , by bring non - voice activate infotainment system within the scope of the Bill ? I want to touch briefly on the proposal " for the repeal of section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 " , a decade - old provision that have never be bring into force . while I appreciate the opportunity to observe the perspective of my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , whose knowledgeable account of the forming of that legislation be extremely insightful , I be afraid I disagree with the point that he make . it do not seem right to I that publisher who be take to court could be force to pay the legal cost of a judgment if they be not a member of an approve regulator , regardless of whether they win or lose the case . I be a firm believer in the freedom of the press . I have spend time work as a journalist , and there have be time when journalist have write about my activity . there be , occasionally , time when I do not like what the press have write , and there be , occasionally , time when I believe that the press have get it wrong . healthy democracy , however , need objective journalism which be free from state involvement . the reason I do not agree with my right hon . friend be this . the Leveson report recommend a system of " voluntary independent self - regulation " , envisage " a body , establish and organise by the industry " which " must be fund by its member " . Lord Justice Leveson say that that body should include all the major player in the industry — national newspaper , and as many regional and local newspaper and magazine publisher as possible — " although I be very anxious that it remain voluntary " . what Lord Justice Leveson actually say be that the member of the body would only be recognise as a regulator if they have seek recognition from an organisation call the Press Recognition Panel . Leveson very clearly reject the model put forward by Lord Black in the other place , for the very good reason that there be no independent accountability and no body to recognise that independent regulator . I be grateful for my right hon . friend ' s comment and I recognise his knowledge in this area . he be involve at such a deep level that he have experience and expertise in this field . for I , the medium regulatory landscape have change significantly since section 40 be introduce , with the Independent Press Standards Organisation now regulate nearly 2 , 000 print and online title , include the vast majority of UK national , regional and local newspaper . I feel that that have leave we with an obsolete law on the statute book which be never enact . remove the section be a conservative party manifesto commitment in 2017 and in 2019 , so I welcome its propose repeal by the Bill . in conclude my remark , I want to offer my thank to the Minister of State , Department for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , to the Secretary of State and to official in DCMS for all their positive engagement with I , with the industry and with those in the House who have long be press for this Bill to be bring forward . I know that the Minister be just as keen as I be to see the Media Bill on the statute book , and I be grateful to he for take note of the issue that I have raise today . I look forward to his address those issue in his reply , as well as to our continued engagement over the come month so that we can pass this Bill as soon as possible . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) . I remember be warn by the whip on my very first day in this place , " do not make the mistake of think that the medium be your friend . they be not . " I can still remember that . after four year of be in this place I understand the sentiment , but actually we have a job to do . it be to represent our constituent and be accountable , and the medium equally have a job to do . as far as I be concern , we form a relationship with each other , hopefully for the benefit of our constituent . it might not always be a friendship , but in my case it be a decent , healthy working relationship none the less . in North Norfolk we be lucky , because we have some really good local medium company . we have good local tv , good local radio and good local newspaper , and I work with they all . I would like to think that we have a good relationship because I have a job to do and so do they in report on my role and what I be do in Parliament . we all know that local medium be under immense pressure and I have be very outspoken about BBC local radio cut . BBC Radio Norfolk be a beloved institution in my part and I still think that those cut be misguided and wrong . they will devalue the product , push content creator into online from radio and put pressure on our regional newspaper , which be already struggle as a result of the ever - dwindle number of people who be read print content . local medium be often far more adept at report on the story our constituent want to hear , because the regional story affect the reader directly . local news programming often aim to be the authentic voice of its viewer and their interest , with viewer often tell story directly through their own word . one of the purpose of the Media Bill be suppose to be to ensure that view migrating to new stream platform do not result in view and revenue to public service broadcasting be lose . however , while support the large broadcaster , the Bill do little to protect the right of viewer to access local news and information on their new tv set . so for I , the fundamental issue of the Bill be the definition of public service channel . under the Bill , local tv service be no long include in the definition , which mean that Ofcom will have no power to secure carriage and prominence for internet - deliver local tv stream service on smart tv set . the reality of that be that if local tv service can not replace lose viewing and revenue , they will ultimately no long be able to deliver their service . for one of my local tv station , that ' s tv , it will have a direct impact on its business . I have always support that ' s tv , along with its presenter Charlie Walden and now his successor , Ryan Wykes . both have be young , talented and keen reporter and I have greatly enjoy work with they . it be important that they flourish and be not lose , because the demise of local tv would be an irreversible loss to the medium landscape . where the Bill have get it right be in reduce the regulatory burden on commercial radio station . they , too , be stretch for advertising revenue but contribute enormously to the rich fabric of community medium . to give an example of just how popular local radio be in my region : accord to RAJAR datum from Sept 2023 , 199 , 000 people across Norfolk and north Suffolk tune into Greatest Hits Radio , include 18 , 000 in North Norfolk alone . that be more than BBC Radio Norfolk , at 125 , 000 , and more than Heart Norfolk , at 174 , 000 . that echo what my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South have just say . of all the people listen to the radio in Norfolk , around one in every five listen to Greatest Hits Radio for at least some of the time . it be vital that station like these be support and enhance so that brilliant reporter such as Tom Clabon can continue to report on the late and most important regional topic , day in and day out . I often find these journalist have a free rein and more flexibility than journalist from , say , the BBC , with its strict schedule on what they can and can not report . one concern be that increase the visibility or accessibility of public service broadcast content could have an adverse consequence in provide unfair competition to regional newspaper that , as we know , be under great pressure across the country . I be bless to have a brilliant local newspaper that cover all of my constituency — I know not all mp have that . there be almost a clamour to buy the North Norfolk News on a Thursday morning , and I pay tribute to up - and - come journalist such as Adam Barker and the local democracy reporter George Thompson , and not forget Stuart Anderson , the community editor , who be the first reporter to interview I after my election , we have work together productively ever since I be elect to inform the population of all thing in North Norfolk . as I end , I can not fail to mention protection for non - commercial community radio station . I have one of the good , Poppyland Radio , base in Northrepps village hall . a bunch of wonderfully energetic , creative and talented presenter and volunteer enable it to broadcast 24 / 7 but , like every other local medium channel , it need protection to ensure its viability . I hope consideration can be give so that , across the spectrum , it be not just the broadcasting giant that be protect but also the content creator who represent our small community . without they , the journalist of the future may never be give the opportunity to learn their trade , and then we and the community we represent would all ultimately suffer . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I apologise to the House for neglect to mention at the start of my remark that I have recently accept hospitality totalling £ 345 from Sky , a broadcaster , to see Madonna — it be unforgettable . I apologise for fail to mention that in my remark , and I wish to correct the record . I hope that be acceptable . thank you for your guidance . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order and for correct the record as quickly as possible , for which I be grateful . I be pleased to welcome the introduction of the overdue Media Bill . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it have be 20 year since the last major piece of broadcasting legislation be pass , and the medium landscape have since change dramatically . in 2003 , the word " television " and " radio " describe the device on which we consume our visual and audio content . now these format have take on a life of their own . television can be view without a physical tv , and radio can be stream online . as this technology have evolve , so have the habit of audience and the competitor enter the industry . in the television space , for example , global streaming service now challenge our public service broadcaster for the attention of audience . rather than be linear channel , they offer catalogue of content for the price of a subscription . against this backdrop , we be pleased to finally have the medium Bill before we today , in order to give our public service broadcaster and UK radio the tool they need to thrive in the digital era . just last week , I again meet stakeholder from across the industry , include from public service broadcaster , radio provider , online platform and consumer group . while not everyone agree on every detail of the Bill , what be clear from the discussion be the almost unanimous desire to get the Bill through as soon as possible . too much time have already be waste in bring forward the change that be need . around 18 month ago , Ministers first introduce the " up next " White Paper , which contain many of the crucial measure we see before we in the Bill today , include welcome commitment to modernise the public service remit , to ensure public service content be prominent and easy to find on smart tv and streaming stick , and to futureproof the list event regime , so that UK audience can enjoy important national sporting moment . however , rather than get on with provide support for the broadcasting industry , the Government choose to waste a year pursue doom plan to privatise Channel 4 instead . thank to widespread opposition , Ministers finally make a very welcome u - turn on that proposal . that be a huge relief , not least for those local economy across the country who rely on Channel 4 spending over 50 % of its commission budget in area outside London , which the hon . member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) raise some important question about . although I be pleased to welcome the Bill today and look forward to support it in its passage , it be vital that the Bill be subject to proper parliamentary scrutiny . indeed , the Bill have already make distinct progress from its draft thank to pre - legislative work by the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , which have rightly receive praise from across the House . the Chair , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , outline some of the accept change , include create exemption to the 30 - day requirement , make progress in close the stream loophole in the list event regime and add much - need protection to help facilitate a smooth end to Channel 4 ' s publisher - broadcaster restriction . however , I would like to highlight some area where clarification may be need , start with the first four part of the Bill , which primarily focus on visual medium . it be important that the Bill seek to ensure that the public service remit be not overly complex or onerous . however , the Voice of the Listener and Viewer , the Media Reform Coalition and the Culture , Media and Sport Committee have raise concern that remove explicit requirement to cover genre such as entertainment , drama , science , religion and other belief could lead to a decline in the provision of content in those area . will the Minister clarify what impact assessment the Department have carry out on how the new remit will impact the nature of public service content , particularly with respect to the removed genre ? in the light of change view pattern , it be sensible to provide psb with some flexibility to meet their remit through on demand programming , but the Broadcast 2040 + campaign and other have be clear that public service content on linear television must still be protect and maintain . if it be not , we risk exclude those who live in rural area , do not have an internet connection and an old generation that rely on be able to watch television in its traditional format . will the Minister explain how the Department will work with Ofcom to hold our psb to the high standard , and ensure that they continue to deliver quality content for as many people as possible ? further scrutiny will also be need to ensure the new video - on - demand code be not just a copy and paste of the broadcasting code , and be tailor to the need of the on - demand environment , a point touch on by the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) . it must also be clear who this code will apply to . currently , the Government have say tier one service will be subject to the code , but there be confusion over how tier one will be define . discussion will also be important to ensure the new prominence regime achieve the aim of make sure public service content be easily accessible on smart device , properly consider how good to implement prominence for the like of S4C , as raise by a number of hon . member , and take into account legacy device . on list event , we need further clarification on how the finding from the Government ' s consultation into digital right will be implement . we do not want a situation where a major sporting event take place overnight and the next day the online clip be behind a paywall , mean people in the UK be cut off from view it . let I move now to the radio - focus part of the Bill — particularly part 6 . I be aware that there have be a wide concern over the drafting and intent of the clause . thank to the occasion that I have be in this Chamber to discuss the importance of preserve BBC local radio , the Minister will be well aware by now that I believe that radio service be of vital importance to people up and down the country . I be therefore also in full support of the change that the Bill make to ensure that UK radio service be available and easy to access , without undue interruption , on device such as smart speaker . it be with that support in mind that I wish to ask the Minister how he plan to ensure that these measure be futureproofed , as I know that be something that Radiocentre and the BBC have raise , too . for example , do the Department have any plan to extend the regime where necessary , for instance , to include car entertainment system ? far , despite the rapid growth of podcast and online - only radio , these form of audio be not cover by the Bill ' s protection . do the Minister believe that that , too , should be keep under review ? although I support these measure , I know that the like of TuneIn , TechUK , and Google , which I meet last week , have share some concern over this section . again , I be pleased that the Department have take on board some of the important recommendation make by the Culture , Media and Sport Committee to ease some of those concern . however , I would still be keen to hear from the Minister on what work the Department have carry out to ensure that smart speaker platform be able to prepare internally for carry radio service through their preferred route . it be vital that radio be protect in light of change listening habit , and , in order for this regime to be successfully implement , there must be proper engagement with platform and technology stakeholder to ensure that they be able to comply . although the medium Bill be overdue and in need of some clarification and adjustment , I be very pleased to welcome it today . I look forward to work closely with Ministers and Members from across the House on ensure that we seize this once in a generation opportunity to update media regulation , and create the change need to ensure the future of our brilliant british tv and radio . may I start by thank all hon . member who have contribute to this debate ? it have be wide range and remarkably consensual with one small exception . nevertheless , there have be much support for what the Government be seek to do in this Bill from right across the House . that be perhaps in part because it have be a long time in the preparation , but I think that it be all the well for that . the Government decide to publish the Bill in draft form , and we have consult very widely since that time . we be extremely grateful to the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , under the chairmanship of my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , and to the Lords Communication and Digital Committee . we have also hold extensive discussion with broadcaster , platform and all those who have an interest include — just to reassure the Father of the House — with Colin Browne of the Voice of the Listener & Viewer , whom I meet recently . we intend to continue to engage with all those with an interest in the Bill to make absolutely sure that we have get it right . a number of hon . member , in the course of their contribution , remark on the extraordinary transformation that have occur in the medium landscape over the past few year . it be absolutely the case that thing such as epg and linear television be become less and less part of everyday behaviour , particularly for young people who access television content . it have mean that there have have to be a succession of Bills to update the legislation to take account of the change . I have to admit that I be a member of the Broadcasting Bill Standing Committee in 1996 . I lead for the Opposition in the Committee on the Communications Act 2003 , and I be delighted that I shall be take this Bill through Committee in the next few week . I particularly welcome the offer from the shadow Secretary of State to work with we in take the Bill through and I look forward to work with she and the hon . member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) in Committee as I think that there be area where we share a common objective . we be also keen to work with all member of the Committee to ensure that we get this right . as I say , there have be a remarkable transformation in the medium landscape . we be particularly grateful for the recommendation , and I want to touch on one or two make particularly by the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I have always have a high regard for that Committee , have spend 10 year chair it . as ever , the report produce by the Committee be extremely valuable and we be delighted that we be able to accept a large number of the recommendation . there be one or two recommendation on which we take a different view . in particular , one that have be raise by a number of hon . member , include my hon . friend the Members for Gosport and for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , be the distinction between " significant " and " appropriate " . a number member have recommend that we should use the word " significant prominence " , rather than " appropriate prominence " . the Government have take a different view , which can be sum up as , " Significant can indeed be appropriate , but appropriate be not necessarily significant . " S4C be an example of that . in Wales , it be very important that it should be highly visible , and therefore significant prominence in Wales be appropriate . on the other hand , it would not necessarily be appropriate for S4C to have significant prominence outside Wales . it should obviously be findable , but it have a different position outside Wales . the Government remain of the view that " appropriate " be a more fitting term than " significant " . I be very conscious of what my right hon . Friend say , but " appropriate " be so wishy - washy and it be clear that promote S4C in part of England be not what people be talk about . it be leave the decision to Ofcom and judge , as oppose to the very clear signal from Parliament that we want our public service broadcaster to be high up the list right across the country , include on the platform we discuss early . as I say , in a large number of case the appropriate position would be a significant one , but we think there need to be a degree of flexibility to take account of regional difference , and therefore that Ofcom be perhaps well place to look at each individual example and decide the appropriate level . I come to Channel 4 , which have feature a lot in the course of the debate . Channel 4 , set up by a Conservative Government , have play an extremely valuable role in the broadcasting landscape . I think it be my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe who rightly say that when Channel 4 be create , the independent production sector do not really exist at all . the indie sector be create by Channel 4 and the fact that Channel 4 , as a broadcaster , commission all its content from the indie sector . as a result , we now have one of the most successful independent production sector in the world , which to some extent do not now need the support of Channel 4 ; it be make content for all the broadcaster , in this country and beyond . nevertheless , it be the Government ' s decision that , to provide Channel 4 with a more sustainable revenue base move forward , we should allow it to acquire an in - house production capacity if it so choose . we talk to the independent production sector at length and feel it be appropriate that in those circumstance we should increase the independent production quota to 35 % , in order to provide some underpinning of the independent production sector . we hope that that will ensure the continue sustainability of the independent production sector at the same time as give a Channel 4 an additional ability to diversify its source of revenue . there have be a number of contribution from north of the border during this debate , particularly around Gaelic broadcasting . one measure in the Bill for the first time make the provision of service in the minority language across the United Kingdom part of the public service remit . that do not exist before . it be for Ofcom to decide an appropriate level of provision , but there be now a requirement that there should be such provision . I hear what the right hon . Gentleman be say , but should there not be something a bit strong and more stringent in the Bill than a decision by Ofcom far down the road , and should it not be write into law , as several member have ask ? well , I would say to the hon . Gentleman that clause 1 make clear that there should be a significant quantity of " audiovisual content that be in , or mainly in , a recognise regional or minority language " . just to correct the Minister , it do not say " significant quantity " ; it say " sufficient quantity " , but there be no definition of " sufficient " . we be concerned about the fact that that word have not be define . we want a reasonable amount of gaelic content to be available . I apologise to the hon . Lady . she be absolutely right : it do say a " sufficient quantity of audiovisual content " . that will be a matter for Ofcom to rule on . MG Alba already get support — I be grateful to the Minister , who I appreciate be try to be helpful . what we be ask for specifically be that protection in law be give to Gaelic in the way it be give to other language , such as Welsh . I hope that that can be do with cross - party consensus , which be what we have do over the course of the past few decade in this place . I share the right hon . Gentleman ' s wish to see continue provision both for the Welsh language and indeed for Gaelic . I would , however , draw a contrast . some have suggest that there should be some kind of equity in the support give to the Welsh language and to Gaelic . of course , S4C receive funding from the licence fee , but that be in recognition of the fact that there be nearly 1 million Welsh speaker in the United Kingdom . MG Alba get some support from the Scottish Government , which be welcome , but there be approach 100 , 000 people in Scotland who speak Gaelic , so there be a big contrast between the two . there be a reason there have be so few gaelic speaker over the century : act of Parliament , from the Education ( Scotland ) Act 1872 onwards — and even before . the point be that we be look for redress and hope , not for more of the same . I mean that in a good spirit ; I hope it do not come across otherwise , because I know that the Minister be not that type of person . I be try to communicate to he the urgency of the real need , express by a number of member , for that kind of support . I be afraid that all I can say to the hon . Gentleman be that the Government recognise the importance of continue support . we expect the BBC to continue provide a channel in Gaelic , in the form of BBC Alba , and we welcome the fact that MG Alba produce content through an arrangement with the BBC and with the support of the Scottish Government . we have now , for the first time , put into the public service remit the requirement to provide " a sufficient quantity of audiovisual content " . that be a significant step forward , even if it do not go quite as far as SNP Members would like . the provision cover radio have be rightly welcome and describe by my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) , who be an acknowledge expert in this area . we have work closely with the radio sector , and I think that the audio review identify the need to ensure the protection of radio service as more and more people adopt smart speaker . a number of hon . member raise local television , of which the Government remain supportive . however , at the moment , local television be not available through app , so include it in the provision for prominence be not appropriate , but we will of course keep the situation under review , should it evolve in future . the Government be consult on the future of local television . my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) raise a specific point about the regulation of video - on - demand streaming service . the Government completely share her wish to see adequate protection for child . have sufficient protection in place will be part of the new requirement on the major streaming service . she be right to praise the BBFC . I have work with the BBFC for many year , go right back to James Ferman , who for 25 year be its director . it be absolutely true that the BBFC be recognise as expert in this field . I very much welcome that a number of streamer have choose to adopt the BBFC to carry out their age rating , include Netflix and Amazon . the Government ' s objective , however , be to ensure that protection be in place , rather than necessarily to specify that it have to be do by the BBFC . it will be leave to Ofcom to oversee that , and it already have a lot of experience in this area . it enforce the broadcasting code , which also require age - appropriate broadcasting . as my hon . Friend rightly say , that be traditionally via the watershed , although that be now change with the move to on - demand tv . Ofcom also undertake other protection such as parental control and so on , so it be not just age rating . I entirely share her view that the BBFC do an excellent job , and I hope that all service will consider use it when reach decision , but the Government be not at the point of wish to mandate that at this time . I utterly appreciate what my right hon . friend be say , and I can see why the Government and Ofcom do not want to be overly prescriptive about how this regulation be do , as long as the content be well understand . will he just reflect on the fact that this set of label be well understand by the public ? everyone know what a u be , and everyone know what an 18 be . in that sense , it would be an effective vehicle to establish that people understand the content . in determine whether the requirement be meet , Ofcom will have to take into account whether the rating be easily understand by viewer . even if that be not necessarily the BBFC ' s triangle and particular age rating , it will nevertheless need to meet those requirement and ensure that viewer can easily see what be an appropriate age for that particular content . I be a viewer of Disney + along with the other service , and I agree with my hon . friend . Disney + have some content that be highly appropriate for child , but it have other content that be perhaps less so . I move on to the repeal of section 40 , which be of concern to a number of member . I very much welcome the contribution of my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , who serve with I on the Select Committee when we carry out the inquiry into phone hacking . I hope I be not be too immodest in say that the Committee be responsible for expose phone hacking , and none of the event that follow would have occur have the Select Committee not persist in our summoning of representative of News International , as it be at that time , and pursue that inquiry . it lead to the police investigation and ultimately to the establishment of the Leveson inquiry . my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) be right to set out the historical background to the establishment of the Leveson inquiry . however , the one thing that he do not cover , which I recall very well , be that the intention behind section 40 be to put pressure on one or two newspaper that might have be stand out against seek the approval of the recognise regulator . what nobody anticipate when section 40 be establish be that every single national publication would say that they be not willing to comply with that requirement . it be not just the tabloid or the red top ; it be the Guardian , the Independent and the Financial Times . no national newspaper be willing to comply with the Government ' s proposal under the royal charter , and that do change thing , because it make the system unworkable . my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) — to whom I be grateful for take over the APPG on media freedom — be right to point out that campaign organisation for press freedom such as reporter without Borders be equally critical of the Government ' s proposal on section 40 and have be campaign for its repeal . the Government reach the conclusion that the system have not work and should be repeal , and we therefore put that in the conservative party manifesto of 2017 . it be repeat in the conservative party manifesto of 2019 , and I be delighted that we will now put that commitment into effect by repeal section 40 . I have seldom agree with the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , but on this occasion , I think he make one or two extremely good point . he be absolutely right to highlight the digital divide . we be very conscious that as more and more people access tv content through streaming service and via the internet , there be a group who have not do so . several Members ask whether the Government can make a commitment to the continuation of Freeview beyond 2034 . the Government would not consider switch off digital terrestrial television unless we have reach the point where the overwhelming majority be no long use it to access tv . we be very conscious of that group in the population who still rely on traditional Freeview , and that will be in our thought . the right hon . Member be also right to pay tribute to news report from around the world and to point out that it do not get enough attention . I be delighted to be able to attend the Society of Editors ' medium freedom award recently , where Sky receive two award for its reporter Stuart Ramsay ' s report from Myanmar about the civil war rage there . that be a terrible conflict that do not get enough attention . the right hon . member be right that it be important that both psb and other provider continue to bring we report from right around the world about thing that we would otherwise be unaware of . lastly , I welcome the right hon . member ' s stress the importance of local newspaper . I have be deeply concerned about the decline of local newspaper for many year . I be delighted that the BBC ' s local democracy report service , which be establish follow the last charter , continue to support local newspaper , and we continue to look for other way to support they . this have be an excellent debate . I look forward to work with all member and the opposition as we take the Bill into Committee . I be delighted to commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Media Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Media Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 14 December 2023 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . Media Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Media Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . Media Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Media Bill , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) the charging of fee under the Act ; and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Health and Safety that the draft Justification Decision ( Scientific Age Imaging ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 13 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Immigration and Asylum that the draft Immigration ( Age Assessments ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 14 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . Petition Petition - UK Meal Card Scheme I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk . there can be no doubt that we be in the midst of a worsen cost of living crisis , and I fully support my constituent ' call for a UK meal card scheme , which would help to reduce household food bill and support local business on the high street . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to follow the lead of 35 other nation around the world and examine the introduction of a UK meal card scheme to provide a tax - free allowance for employee to spend on ready - to - eat food and non - alcoholic beverage , implement by update HMRC ' s exist tax exemption list for employee benefit and expense , with a graduate tax treatment to ensure that support be target at those on the low income . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that the UK remain in the grip of a worsen cost of living crisis , with inflation cause significant pressure on household food budget ; far that there be a need to support company who be struggle to find worker and to support individual to find and sustain work , to bolster the UK ' s labour market and boost economic growth , and note that innovation be need to tackle the challenge we face . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to follow the lead of 35 other nation around the world and examine the introduction of a UK meal card scheme to provide a tax - free allowance for employee to spend on ready - to - eat food and non - alcoholic beverage , implement by update HMRC ' s exist tax exemption list for employee benefit and expense , with a graduate tax treatment to ensure that support be target at those on the low income . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002876 ] scotland : Further Independence Referendum Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) I be go to begin where I leave off on 1 February this year when I move my Scotland ( Self - Determination ) Bill . it be important to establish how far this Government and the party of opposition have move from the principle of equity of all people of this allege Union of equal , and ultimately against the democratic will of the people of Scotland . in this place in 1889 , the equality of UK partner country be assert by none other than William Ewart Gladstone MP , when he say that " if I be to suppose a case in which Scotland unanimously , or by a clearly preponderate voice , be to make the demand on the United Parliament to be treat , not only on the same principle , but in the same manner as Ireland , I could not deny the title of Scotland to urge such a claim . " — [ Official Report , 9 April 1889 ; Vol . 335 , c . 101 - 102 . ] that principle of equity be at the heart of my private Member ' s Bill , and be again articulate in amendment ( j ) to the recent King ' s Speech , table in my name . each be consistent with the motion pass by this House that endorse the principle of the 1989 claim of right , which acknowledge " the sovereign right of the scottish people to determine the form of Government well suit to their need " . however inure this House have since become to the aspiration of the people of Scotland to live in a normal independent country , support for independence be hold steady at around 50 % without a single leaflet be drop through a letterbox . that number be rise steadily , and will continue to climb . the independence genie be not for go back into the bottle . of course , that grow support require a mechanism through which to express its effect and place beyond doubt the will of the people . my Scotland ( Self - Determination ) Bill be explicit about the condition necessary to bring that mechanism into play , and be clear that the power to legislate for a referendum require a democratic mandate from the scottish public . since 2014 , that criterion have be meet in successive general election to the Scottish Parliament , most recently in 2021 , when a majority of MSPs be elect on a manifesto commitment to deliver an independence referendum . this evening , I intend to set out how that must now happen , and how it can be put beyond the wile of intransigent London - lead party for good . one of the most invigorating aspect of the 2014 independence referendum campaign be the explosion of interest and engagement in all aspect of policy , and the healthy workplace , coffee house and pub debate across Scotland . back then , as a movement , we be unafraid to have difference of opinion and to propose various solution to decade - old problem . most importantly , we speak truth to the distortion of the Unionist Better together " no " campaign . that appetite for truth and fact be something we must rediscover . our movement must demand that if we be to make progress towards independence . the first issue we must come to term with be that another section 30 independence referendum be not go to happen for the foreseeable future . as a consequence of the Scottish Lord Advocate ' s folly in argue a poorly craft question , the UK Supreme Court make it clear that in the absence of an equitable mechanism for self - determination across these island — such as the one I have propose — any referendum on scottish independence be a matter reserve to London . in some way , the Supreme Court ' s judgment be perhaps helpful . it say in paragraph 81 — this be the reason the Court stop the referendum — that even if the referendum do not have any legal power , because the UK Government have not sign up to it , the ballot box would carry authority , which would force the UK Government to recognise that authority and therefore cause a change to the Union . by stop the referendum , the Supreme Court have now open another avenue for Scotland , which we will maybe touch on later . that , of course , be use election . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and that be a key element of my contribution to this debate . put plainly , a section 30 order to temporarily transfer those power to the Scottish Parliament be entirely in the gift of Westminster . that underscore the unavoidable truth that our Parliament be in reality part of the fabric of the british state and be increasingly be squeeze under the heel of Whitehall . secure mandate to ask for a referendum on independence only to be rebuff be now the equivalent of Monty Python ' s parrot that have cease to be . it be as stone dead as a mandate can be . the Tories have become increasingly bolder in this regard , and while they persist with their assertion that this be a voluntary Union , they refuse to set out the mean of withdraw consent . this government have also make it clear that they will plunder Scotland as a cash cow until the wind stop blow . Westminster plan to rob our resource at its leisure . there be no way , even if the First Minister be to ask , that the Prime Minster would agree to an independence referendum in his final month in office . in a Westminster Hall debate on this subject , the Minister respond this evening claim that " the benefit of be part of the United Kingdom have never be more apparent . " where be the benefit for the one in three household in Scotland live in fuel poverty ? where be the benefit for the north - east of Scotland when the Acorn carbon capture and storage project still wait for a go - ahead from the UK Government ? the Minister proclaim that Scotland have " one of the most powerful devolve Parliaments in the world . " — [ Official Report , 30 November 2022 ; Vol . 723 , c . 384WH . ] but Scotland remain powerless to stop the plunder . when the hon . Member speak about opportunity to improve the life of people in Scotland , we could of course do that through our NHS , through our education system , through our justice system and through local government . all of those issue be devolve fully to the Scottish Government and the Scottish Parliament , but they be of course ignore by the SNP and Green Government — the nationalist Government — because they be always focused on independence , rather than on the real priority of the people of Scotland . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , but I would be the last person to speak for the SNP Government in Scotland . I refer back to my party leader ' s excellent tenure as First Minister , and the meaningful difference he make to the life of the people of Scotland . this comparison with a devolve Scotland in the United Kingdom be as silly as compare the performance of Northern Ireland and Stormont in the United Kingdom with Dublin and an independent Ireland . Ireland have a € 10 billion surplus this year , rise to € 20 billion next year . the UK , with a deficit of around £ 170 billion , be unable to build small hospital on small hebridean island , whereas Ireland be fund nurse over the border . order . I be not sure who the hon . Gentleman be intervene on there . I be extend the debate . Mr Deputy Speaker , I be equally — [ interruption . ] yes , my hon . friend have put the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) in his place . anyway , the Treasury be happy to siphon off £ 11 billion in tax receipt from oil and gas this year alone , and we be send south 124 billion kWh of energy , which be enough to power Scotland ' s need fifteen time over . as my hon . friend the Member for East Lothian ( Kenny MacAskill ) set out in a Westminster Hall debate this morning , with this Union it be all pool and absolutely no sharing . I ask the Minister : where be the evidence of a share of Scotland ' s energy bounty ? as for an incoming UK Labour Government , now bedeck in Union Jackery — the Tories will like this bit — the Leader of the Opposition have make it clear that his priority be continuity with Tory economic and social policy , and he intend to continue London ' s plunder of scottish asset . do not be confuse : it be british Labour that first hide the truth of the McCrone report from the people of Scotland — a truth keep secret by successive Labour and Tory Administrations for 30 year . neither party have protect our economy or our community , so why should we trust any of they now ? they each may persist with the claim they have " no selfish strategic or economic interest " in the north of Ireland , but we know the opposite be true of Scotland , where the strategy be wholly economic and top - to - tail selfish . I be sit here as a determined , strong - willed , proud Unionist who believe that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be always well together . Northern Ireland be part of that , and I very much wish to see Scotland be part of that , so the hon . Gentleman and I will disagree . do he accept that when it come to the British Government , the amount of money that come from here to keep Scotland go can never be ignore ? he talk about the trade downwards , but the trade be also upwards and that can not be ignore when it come to the financial implication . well off together , always . the hon . Gentleman hit the nail on the head when he say that we will absolutely not agree on anything he say . in answer to that point , the Republic of Ireland be cost the UK nothing after leave , therefore if Scotland go it will save you a fortune — order . stop intervene on Mr Hanvey to intervene on the person who intervene on Mr Hanvey . you can ' t knock his enthusiasm , Mr Deputy Speaker . neither the Labour nor the conservative party have protect our economy , and any fantasy that plea for more devolution will be accommodate by Labour be pie in the sky . north of Tyne Mayor Jamie Driscoll recently accuse the Labour Opposition of censor , dilute , and strike down key recommendation contain in a report by former Prime Minister and MP for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath , Gordon Brown , on the constitution and further devolution across the UK . those forlorn attempt to prevent the " break - up of Britain " by refuse to devolve power away from London will serve only to boost the case for scottish independence . Mr Brown ' s attempt to reframe the debate to one of " change within Britain versus change by leave Britain " have be utterly dismantle by his party leader and increase the urgency for independence . all that lead we to the position where Scotland urgently need a robust strategy that not only deal with the fact of the day , but overcome that central Westminster hurdle of the denial of a democratic process . the Alba party , and our Scotland United colleague , the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Angus Brendan MacNeil ) , believe that every single Scottish and UK general election must now be use to secure majority support for independence negotiation to commence . that could , and should , include the trigger of an early Holyrood election . the hon . Member have hit the nail on the head . the referendum door be slam shut , and there be three way that the SNP Government at Holyrood could trigger a plebiscite on scottish independence . of course , the resignation of the First Minister be very awkward and difficult , but a majority of two third of msp can vote , or by use section 31a of the Scotland Act 1998 the two - third majority can be alter to a simple majority . that be not communicate properly in light of the Supreme Court , and those who do not communicate it properly should have set the record straight or at least apologised . I think they should set the record straight so that mps , msp and the wide public clearly understand that point . I thank my hon . friend for that important piece of information . it underscore that there be need for much more robust and firm action from the scottish independence movement , to push forward the case for independence . as I say recently , independence will not fall into our lap . it be something that we have to pursue with vigour and absolute determination . that approach reinstate the position of the national movement prior to devolution . as with all democratic expression , the threshold would be a simple majority of vote cast for all independence party — a threshold that be achieve on the last list vote for the Scottish Parliament . that approach be support by the expert legal opinion I obtain from highly distinguished academic and legal practitioner in international law , Professor Robert McCorquodale . he say that " the people of Scotland be distinct within the UK and have a right to self - determination . " , and subsequently that " the right to self - determination apply to the people of Scotland . " he go on to state : as the people of Scotland be a people for the purpose of the right to self - determination , they can exercise it . the choice of the mean to exercise it be for the people to decide and not for the state . " furthermore , he explain that the UK , as a signatory to multilateral international human right treaty , have " expressly accept that the right to self - determination be a human right " and " not just as an international legal principle — which be bind under international law on all state . " these be not obscure or arcane point of law ; they be precise and purposeful . I understand why the UK Government do not want to hear the fact that Professor McCorquodale set out , but I can not comprehend why other be steadfast in their refusal even to acknowledge that landmark legal opinion chart the correct lawful and democratic course to self - determination and independence . the Alba party ' s amendment to the recent King ' s Speech repeat the democratic principle contain in my Scotland ( Self - Determination ) Bill for the recognition of the right of the people of Scotland to self - determination by amend the Scotland Act 1998 . that would transfer the power to legislate for a scottish independence referendum to the Scottish Parliament . let I deal with the suppose gold standard of a section 30 order . such an order on its own be not a gold standard ; it be the process of negotiation and agreement that lead to the signing of the Edinburgh agreement that be the gold standard . let I be clear that any democratic vote in favour of self - determination be the only standard require , provide that that be the clear and unclouded purpose of any such vote — unless of course the UK Government do not want to recognise democratic election as legitimate expression of the will of the people . the hon . Member be make an excellent point . an unscheduled Holyrood election would precisely be in that category . it would make the world stop for a moment and see whether Scotland be to choose independence . that power rest with MSPs at Holyrood if they want to do that . the hon . Gentleman be make really important and valid observation . those be the key tactic that we need to adopt . whichever UK Prime Minister come next , while they may have every technical right to stifle , subdue or ignore the Scottish Parliament , the british state have no locus to limit the inalienable human right of the people of Scotland or the march of our nation . yet in this Union , that be precisely where Scotland find its democracy — deny . that fly in the face of commitment give . in Margaret Thatcher ' s memoir , she say of Scotland : " as a nation , they have an undoubted right to national self - determination " . John Major , when Prime Minister , say of Scotland that " no nation could be hold irrevocably in a Union against its will " . the commitment contain in the Smith commission ' s agreement , which be sign by all Scotland ' s main political party , say that " nothing in this report prevent Scotland become an independent country in the future should the people of Scotland so choose . " Scotland will only ever become an independent country as and when the majority of the people of Scotland choose that path , yet that require a democratic mechanism that be constitutional and satisfy international legal precedent . from Gladstone to Thatcher , no one until now have have the gall to seek to constrain the scottish people ' s democratic right to self - determination . I have make this point many time , but it bear repeat . democracy be not a single event ; it be a continually evolve process that demand opinion be test and reteste regularly . I anticipate that the Minister will reel off the usual rebuttal and crow about how we have have a referendum , but he should know this . as an option , a referendum have be put beyond reach by Westminster and Whitehall , but Scotland will adapt . each and every election from hereon in can and will provide a platform on which the people of Scotland can have their say on their consent to this Union . Consistent with Professor McCorquodale ' s opinion , that would pave the way to where " a clear majority of people represent Scotland … indicate their approval " for independence , " but it should not be do by the Scottish Parliament , as the latter be within UK domestic law . this could be do , for example , through a convention of elect and diverse representative from across Scotland with a clear majority in favour . " Scotland ' s separate constitutional tradition be well sum up by Lord Cooper , in the case of MacCormick v . Lord Advocate : " the principle of the unlimited sovereignty of Parliament be a distinctively english principle which have no counterpart in scottish constitutional law . " the UK Government face a choice : give serious consideration to bring forward legislation for an equitable mechanism for self - determination , as exist on the island of Ireland , or face that test at every election in future . in international law accord to human right declaration , the decision on Scotland be the purview of the people of Scotland , not of any London party . in the constitutional tradition of popular sovereignty in our great country , it be the people who remain sovereign , and it will be the people of Scotland who decide . yet again , the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) have decide to use valuable debating time in this place to focus on the constitution . yet again , this time could have be use to raise issue of immediate importance to Scotland ' s future . yet again , his constituent , and my constituent in the scottish border , will be disappoint . the Government ' s position on a further independence referendum be well know . rise — I want to make some progress , and I will give way another time . [ interruption . ] the hon . Member have only just sit down , and I will deal with his point in due course . People across Scotland rightly expect to see both their government work together . our relentless focus should be on the issue that matter to they , their family , and their community . Scotland ' s bright future as part of the United Kingdom be well serve by focus on tackle the cost of living , and on grow our economy so that everyone have access to the opportunity , skill , and job that they need . [ interruption . ] hon . member on the Opposition Benches shake their head , but I know that those be the priority of my own constituent in the border . it be disappointing how disconnected those member be from the priority of the constituent they represent . when it first come to power , the SNP set out to emulate the Labour party of old , and it certainly have succeed . the nationalist movement be now even more divided than the far left . the SNP and Alba compete to see who can be the most reckless in their demand . they be constantly try to get one up on each other on independence . but it do not matter who be push separation — Humza Yousaf or Alex Salmond . Scotland do not want it . unlike the divisive nationalist , we unionist on the Government Benches be all about bring people together . as hard as it might be , let I try to find a point of unity with the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath . perhaps we can agree that Scotland want to be free — free of the SNP . as a member of the Alba party , surely he can agree that we be feed up with Humza Yousaf , Michael Matheson ' s ever - change story and their endless incompetence and deceit . while Scottish Conservative mp be secure million of pound - worth of investment in our constituency through UK levelling - up funding , elect member of the hon . member ' s party want a giant independence thermometer to be construct somewhere in Scotland . I wish I be joke . the independence thermometer be the brainwave of the Alba party ' s most recent recruit from the SNP , Ash Regan MSP . personally , I would rather see taxpayer ' money spend on school and hospital , but if the hon . member insist , will he tell we where he want the independence thermometer to be locate ? have he lobby the Chancellor for fund for this ridiculous proposal ? will the thermometer be make of mercury , or be that where he get the idea from — another planet ? I thank the Minister for give way . however , I need to go back to my first request for an intervention . he be complain about use valuable time in the Chamber for a debate on the constitution , but it be his Government who be finish early ! it be his Government who have just launch a new King ' s Speech and can not fill the parliamentary programme with enough business to keep the Chamber go . I hope he will correct the record that it be not I who be impede Parliament do its business ; it be a lack of action from his own government . what a load of baloney ! this Government have an action - pack programme set out in the King ' s Speech . we have an ambitious programme for Scotland and all part of the United Kingdom . we be focus on the issue that matter to the community we represent , not on endlessly debate another independence referendum . the UK Government remain as determined , focused and commit as ever to get on with the job for the people of Scotland . that be well demonstrate by what we be do on the ground . the UK Government be deliver £ 2 . 7 billion of levelling - up investment across all part of Scotland . as hon . member on the nationalist Benches know , that investment include : £ 1 . 5 billion for 12 scottish city and regional growth deal ; £ 160 million for two investment zone in the Glasgow city region and north - east Scotland ; £ 52 million for two freeport , focus at the Inverness and Cromarty Firth and Firth of Forth region ; and £ 817 million for locally - drive plan and priority , regenerate town centre , improve vital infrastructure , support business , and spread skill and opportunity to community everywhere . I thank the Minister for give way . he mention the Unionists on the conservative Benches . I be a Unionist on the Opposition Benches , as be my party . it be clear that the poll in Scotland be indicate less of an interest in independence than there be . be that because the realisation of those in Scotland be that they see their future within this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — well together ? be it because the financial benefit of Westminster and the Government here to Scotland , and indeed to Wales and Northern Ireland , be so good they would never really want to leave ? the hon . Member make very valid point , but the key point be that support for independence and another independence referendum in Scotland be fall . the voter in Scotland , certainly in my constituency in the Scottish Borders , be get wise to the failure of the scottish SNP Government in Edinburgh , and they recognise the benefit of remain part of a strong United Kingdom . that be because the UK Government and the Scottish Government be work together on so many area to make our community well — drive economic growth , support the scottish economy and deliver for Scotland . I can give some further example . we can see it through the Scottish Seafood Industry Action Group , where the UK Government regularly engage with the Scottish Government and the scottish seafood industry to consider a range of important issue , include access to labour , energy cost and export opportunity . we see it through the fiscal framework review , where the UK and Scottish Governments reach a fair and responsible agreement . both Governments reach a compromise for the benefit of the scottish economy , while keep we on track with our fiscal objective . and we be invest more than £ 100 million in Scotland ' s innovation economy through the strength in place fund and Glasgow innovation accelerator . our close collaboration with the Scottish Government in this area be far underline by the agreement sign between UK Research and Innovation and Scottish Enterprise early this month , which aim to streamline innovation support for scottish business . level up be already make a real difference to all region of Scotland . it be bring advanced manufacturing job to the Glasgow city region , datum drive innovation job to south - east Scotland , and life science job to the highland and north - east Scotland . it be save the community on Fair Isle with a new ferry , bring Clydesdale horse back to Pollok Country Park , and revitalise town and city centre from Greenock to Aberdeen , and Cumbernauld to Elgin . it be help community to protect and restore their treasured building and facility , whether it be the last pub in Lochranza on Arran , or a permanent home for St David ' s brass band in Gorebridge . [ interruption . ] the member on the nationalist Benches shout those initiative down . this be fund from the United Kingdom Government go into community the length and breadth of Scotland — something that they seem to strongly oppose . I be disappoint by that and I know the community they represent will be disappoint by it too . before the Minister get down to the mug and glass that we provide for the cub scout , along with any other crumb from the table , let I make this point . he mention " two government " in Scotland . what inefficiency ! Norway , Ireland , Iceland and Denmark have one government each , and they be outperform Scotland in the United Kingdom . if Scotland be do so well in the United Kingdom , why do Norway , Ireland , Iceland and Denmark not want to join the UK ? it be because they know that it be not a good place to be . they look at Scotland and Wales and they see place that be do well , just as they be do well . if the campaign for scottish independence be do as badly as the Minister say , why not hold your referendum now ? you ' d win , surely , wouldn ' t you ? but you know full well that when the scottish people engage , independence will happen ! the hon . member speak of " crumb from the table " , but this be significant investment go into community across Scotland . Scotland be receive hundred of million of pound through our levelling - up agenda and a record block grant amounting to more than £ 40 billion , but SNP Members oppose and fight every bit of the investment that this United Kingdom Government be make there . I be sadden by that , and I know that the resident and community that the hon . Member and his colleague represent will also be disappoint by the hostile and negative response to investment that have be use to improve the community that we represent . together , the UK Government ' s intervention will drive innovation and long - term economic growth , restore pride in place , and help city , town and village in every part of Scotland to flourish . the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath refer to " the sovereign right of the scottish people " to determine their future , and I suppose that that reference to self - determination get to the nub of the debate that he have initiate . in 2014 , the year of the referendum on scottish independence , there be consensus between the UK Government and the Scottish Government — both Scotland ' s government — and there be consensus in civic society in Scotland and consensus across the population of Scotland , which be why both government agree to the referendum . the ultimate act of self - determination , of course , come in September 2014 , when , in record number , the people of Scotland turn out to vote to remain part of the United Kingdom . my hon . friend have give a strong defence of the Union , as he always do in his ministerial role and on behalf of his constituent . would he agree that the nationalist have have more plan for scottish independence than Michael Matheson have have excuse for his £ 11 , 000 iPad bill ? and just like that £ 11 , 000 iPad bill and their different plan , none of they be honest , none of they be convincing and none of they have the support of the scottish people . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we hear about plan for referendum endlessly from SNP Members . I just wish they have a clear plan for ferry in Scotland or a clear plan for Scotland ' s NHS and Scotland ' s school , but no — referendum , referendum , referendum be all we hear about and all they talk about . I would like to finish by remind those on the nationalist Benches yet again that our different view on the constitution should not distract both of Scotland ' s government from work together to tackle the sheer challenge of deliver growth , ease pressure on the cost of live and support the NHS . the Scottish Parliament be one of the most powerful devolve Parliaments in the world , and we believe that the devolution settlement strike the right balance . this United Kingdom Government be commit to devolution , and we be work collaboratively and constructively with the devolved administration , include the Scottish Government , to deliver well outcome for the citizen of Scotland and the entirety of the United Kingdom . question put and agree to . House adjourn .