Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Canal & River Trust Funding what recent discussion she have have with the Canal & River Trust on its funding . we have have many discussion with the Canal & River Trust over the past three year on the review of its funding , and we be provide it with more than £ 400 million of additional funding between 2027 and 2037 . when the trust be create in 2012 , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the trust sign a memorandum of understanding agree that the trust would have to move increasingly towards alternative source of funding . in Ellesmere Port , we be proud that the Canal & River Trust have make its headquarters there , but we be concerned about the implication of the funding decision , which amount to a £ 300 million cut in real term over the next decade . clearly that will cause the trust real problem , so I urge the Minister to think again about these decision and to engage with the trust about how that gap can be bridge . we all recognise the important work and benefit that the Canal & River Trust bring , but the £ 300 million cut in funding assert by the trust be not correct , because that include adjustment for inflation . government funding do not provide for that . we should also remember that an investment portfolio of over £ 1 billion be transfer to the trust , and it get the benefit of the investment and the funding that accrue from they . I call the Member of " Rosie and Jim " fame . thank you , Mr Speaker . as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group for the waterway , I share concern about the future of our canal network , but I be conscious of the fact that 15 year ago when the trust be set up , the aim be for it to be self - financing . Richard Parry , the chief executive , have discuss with I and Ministers in the past the possibility of receive a lump sum , rather than a sum over 10 year . what progress have be make on that ? I thank my hon . friend for all the valuable work he do in that capacity . that subject be still under discussion . American Bully XL what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on introduce the propose ban on American Bully XL dog . the Prime Minister make a decision about introduce the propose ban on american XL Bully dog , recognise the horrific consequence of recent dog attack and the disproportionate amount of those be undertake by such dog . we be work at pace on the legislation , and importantly on how it will be put into practice , and I hope to say more on that soon . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . as a veterinary surgeon , I strongly agree with the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and the Secretary of State that we need to ban the dangerous american XL Bully dog as soon as possible to keep people and other animal safe . do my right hon . friend agree that in parallel to this necessary urgent action , we need to undertake important work with the public on responsible dog breeding , responsible dog ownership and well training and socialising of dog as part of a holistic , long - term solution to dog attack ? my hon . friend have great credibility in this field , give his professional experience as a vet . I understand that many owner of XL Bully dog be passionate about their animal — their pet . that be why we be work at pace , but take our time to get right the definition and the transition period that we anticipate . it be important that all dog owner work to make sure that their dog behave and have appropriate training . that be why we establish a taskforce that include dog welfare charity . we expect it to respond to we by the end of the year , and we will potentially take forward some of its recommendation . as someone who have have a pet dog all my life and still do , I be conscious that some of those who own american XL Bully dog think that their dog be integral and safe , but many in the general public see they as a danger and have fear . be the Secretary of State ' s intention , as this process go forward in Westminster , to engage with the Northern Ireland Assembly and the police , in particular , to ensure that the law and the recommendation that come out of this place can be share with they ? the hon . Gentleman be right to recognise owner ' concern where they believe that they have very good dog . that be to some extent accommodate already in the legislation that have evolve since 1991 . on work with other nation , the law — the primary legislation — will apply in both England and Wales by default , but we be work with the Scottish Government and the Northern Ireland Administration on potential move to make this a UK - wide approach . I call the shadow Minister . I listen carefully to the answer the Secretary of State give to both hon . member , but I be still not reassure that she have the plan legislation in place to ban XL Bully dog effectively . be she satisfied that we have the kennel space across the UK , enough vet to make assessment , and clear rule and legislation in place to make the ban effective ? the hon . Lady ask a fair question . the legislation have evolve since 1991 , with amendment make to the primary legislation in 1997 and in the dangerous Dogs Exemption Schemes ( England and Wales ) order 2015 . in that , there be a combination of work with the police in particular and with local council and , of course , the judicial system . we have be work closely with my right hon . friend the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire to take the matter forward . I want to ensure that the legislation be right . I be expect to present two statutory instrument to make it effective , with one bring the ban into effect and the other provide the transition element and some of the fine detail that still need to be complete . resource and Waste Strategy : Extended Producer Responsibility whether she plan to publish a new timeline for key milestone on ( a ) extend producer responsibility for packaging and ( b ) other measure in the 2018 resource and waste strategy for England . in July , we announce the deferral of the producer payment under the extend producer responsibility scheme , move they to October 2025 . I must say that that be at the request of industry , which ask for more time so that it could prepare . we remain fully committed to deliver the programme to the timeline . the Government continue to deliver obligation set out in the 2018 resource and waste strategy , and we recently publish " Maximising Resources , Minimising Waste " , which be England ' s waste prevention programme . on 1 October , we also expand our ban on certain single - use plastic item . I be grateful for that comprehensive answer . no one should underestimate the critical role of recycling , but , as I be tell by the Green Alliance , it be critical that it be economically viable for the industry , which be worried about the increase cost of waste separation in the Government ' s proposal . I accept what the Minister say , but will she confirm whether her Department ' s upcoming simple recycling proposal will retain commitment for recycle to be separate at home ? detail of the simple recycling system will be announce shortly , but I can tell the House that it will mean that all local authority will collect the same material . of course , as we have always say , food waste will have to be collect separately . it will also be flexible . this have all be discuss with local authority . food system : Health and Sustainability what step she be take to support a healthy and sustainable food system . the Government ' s food strategy set out long - term measure to support a resilient , healthy and more sustainable food and farming system . in May , the Prime Minister ' s farm to fork summit build on that with a focus on how we can work together to support a thriving UK food and farming industry . the summit focus on innovation , skill and labour , and on roll out the new farming scheme to ensure fairness across the supply chain to boost export and support energy and water security , as well as to reduce red tape . every year , post - farm gate , 9 . 5 million tonne of food that could have provide more than 15 billion perfectly edible meal be waste . that also have a massive carbon footprint . give that DEFRA ' s impact assessment conclude that mandatory food waste reporting would result in " financial benefit to business and significant environmental benefit " and be back by many retailer , include Tesco , why have the Government drop their plan ? we be work closely with retailer to try to reduce food waste and will continue to do that . the hon . Member will recognise that a vast amount of food waste occur within the domestic home , and we can do more to help and support consumer to make the most of the food they purchase . we will continue to work with primary producer , retailer and consumer to reduce food waste wherever we can . sustainability be top of our agenda in the New Forest , and the national park authority be keen to discuss opportunity for it with the Minister . I have send he an invitation — will he come ? I be excited to have an opportunity to visit the New Forest . as soon as my diary allow , I will hot - foot it down there to meet my right hon . friend . I call the shadow Minister . to maintain that healthy , sustainable food system , farmer need a level playing field , so when the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) make his recent comment about the benefit of import hormone - inject beef , it send a shudder through the industry . this time last year , he be at the very top of Government , alongside the Secretary of State . give the Minister ' s long experience in Government , can he tell we how many other at the top of his Government privately harbour that view ? the gentleman at the top of Government — the Prime Minister — have be absolutely clear and explicit that we will not accept hormone - produce beef at any point in the future , nor will we accept chlorinate chicken . he have the backing and support of british farmer , and he will do everything he can to help and support they . water Companies : Water Pollution and overflow what step her Department be take to require water company to help reduce water pollution and unsatisfactory overflow . I be pleased that my hon . friend have ask that question , because no Government in history have take a more comprehensive approach to tackle water pollution . this Conservative Government be deliver more investment , strong regulation and tough enforcement to tackle every source of water pollution . under our storm overflow discharge reduction plan , £ 60 billion be target at clean up storm sewage overflow . thank to our monitoring , we know what be happen and we be able to take action . let I remind member that there be virtually no monitoring under the Labour Government . this government be set the record straight . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that answer . the Liberal Democrats pretend that we can fix storm overflow in 48 hour and Labour have an undeliverable sewage plan , so it be unsurprise that sewage be discharge more often in socialist - run Wales . can my hon . friend confirm that it be only the Conservatives ' plan for water that be credible , costed and comprehensive ? as ever , my hon . friend be right on the button . we be the only party with a costed , credible plan to tackle this issue , and we uncover it . if Labour have a plan , it would be use it in Wales . we have just hear how serious the illegal sewage discharge be in Wales . we have discover that not only have Natural Resources Wales not carry out any enforcement , but it have not issue any fine at all on this subject — nothing . and the Liberals do not have any plan . order . we will get through these question . I have to get to a certain number and I have not yet call the Chair of the Select Committee , and you be not help I . like many of my constituent , over the summer I take advantage of the relatively warm temperature in the North sea to enjoy swim off our coast . should my constituent and I worry about the quality of the water due to the practice of water company ? be it not time for Labour ' s plan for automatic fine for discharge ? ninety three per cent of bathing water around our coast be good or excellent . it be a tremendous record . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . Scarborough ' s South bay be include in the 7 % of bathing water without a blue flag . North Yorkshire Council recently convene a taskforce of local politician , the Environment Agency , Yorkshire Water and other , include academic from Durham University , to look at the problem . it become clear that it be not as simple as many people think . discharge come from further north around the bay , and pathogen be pick up not only from human effluent but from sea bird , dog and ruminant . will the Minister take a personal interest in that work , because lesson learn in Scarborough may well apply around the country ? my right hon . friend highlight that the issue be not as simple as people think . that be why our plan for water take a holistic approach to tackle all source of water pollution . it be also why we launch our £ 34 million slurry fund to help farmer reduce the pollution that they may inadvertently put into watercourse . I have never hear such codswallop in all my time in the House . I be bear by the Thames and I love the river , and I have to say to the Minister that I have see no Government in history who have put more sewage into our stream , river and ocean than her since the privatisation of water . I have a meeting about the Thames tideway tunnel yesterday . that amazing project have already increase wildlife so extraordinarily at the end by the Lee tunnel that there be kingfisher , otter and all kind of other creature there . when the tunnel be finish , it will be the big single mean of clean up the Thames that have ever be put in place . it be this Government , through a special tool of private - public funding , who be enable that . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last year , this Government oversaw record level of illegal sewage discharge into our river and waterway after they cut enforcement , and then they let the water boss reward themselves for that failure with nearly £ 10 million in bonus while hike bill for consumer . Labour believe that the polluter , and not the consumer , should pay . will the Government adopt Labour ' s plan and give the regulator the power it need to block water boss ' bonus if they keep illegally pump toxic filth into our river ? I have already say that Labour have not cost its plan , which have no credibility whatsoever . we have already change regulation and the tool that Ofwat and the EA can use . no dividend or bonus can be pay out at all if there be any environmental damage , and there be more fine than ever before . there be no fine under the Labour Government ; indeed , they be take to court by the European Commission for pollute water , and they do nothing about it . this Government introduce the monitoring , and that be why we know what be happen and why we have the big criminal investigation in the history of water under way . fishing Communities what step she be take to support fishing community . the Government be support community by open new fishery for spurdog and bluefin tuna , accelerate action to protect valuable non - quota stock through the first fishery management plan , and protect stock by well control fly - seiner , and we have bring about increase benefit through reform of the economic link . off the coast of beautiful Hastings and Rye , fisherman be suffer the impact on their fishing of a grow seal colony . due to the nature of the fishing — small boat leave their net in the water — sound system to deter seal be not appropriate . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the presence of seal do not result in the decimation of our fishing community , let alone the fish ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who be a tenacious campaigner for her fishing community . we be work alongside the Marine Management Organisation to assess non - lethal seal deterrent option to keep seal away from fishing catch , and we will publish an evidence report on target acoustic startle technology later this year . we be also consider the next step , include for net fishery , under our Clean Catch programme . the special committee on seal provide formal scientific advice to the Government on behalf of the Natural Environment Research Council on the management of seal population under the Conservation of Seals Act 1970 and the Marine ( Scotland ) Act 2010 . its report include seal population datum base on extensive regional survey and form the foundation for monitor our UK marine strategy . I wonder whether the Minister have see the video footage that be do the round of the recent incident involve the spanish longliner Antonio Maria try to ram the Shetland whitefish boat Defiant ; in fact , it put out a rope to foul its propeller . the footage be truly shocking , but the real scandal be that this be not the first time it have happen ; it be at least the third document incident in recent time . this will keep happen unless something be do to stop it , so will the Minister speak to his colleague in the Department for Transport and the Foreign Office to make sure that France , as the flag state with enforcement power in this case , take its responsibility seriously ? I have see that footage . it be truly shocking . this be a deliberate act to try to sabotage a UK fishing boat . it be outrageous behaviour . as the right hon . Gentleman identifie , enforcement be difficult , because the incident involve a spanish boat under a french flag , but give the seriousness of the event I will most certainly raise it with my ministerial colleague . community Farming Projects what step her Department be take to support community farming project . we welcome community farm in England , because they give local community a chance to become involved in the countryside . like any other farm , they may be eligible for a variety of grant enable small farm to be support more fairly . we have introduce a sustainable farming incentive management payment , and we have also extend the farming in protect landscape fund until March 2025 . the fund be open to farmer in national park and area of outstanding natural beauty , allow they to deliver project to support nature , climate , people and place . figure from a social return on investment study show that every £ 1 invest in a community farm be worth £ 9 of community benefit through food production , new skill and community resource . in my constituency , for instance , Lauriston Farm be invest in a community orchard and garden , outdoor learning and a community kitchen to help people pick up new skill and produce affordable food . do the Minister agree that in a cost of living crisis it be critically important for people to have access to such facility , and that more need to be do to help small community project to maximise their potential ? I pay tribute to those who be involve in that community project . as the hon . Lady will know , agriculture be devolve to the Scottish Government , and I hope they will use some of the £ 620 million a year that they be give to support scottish farmer . I be sure she will be a tenacious campaigner in hold the SNP Government to account . flood - risk area : Rural Communities what step her Department be take to protect rural community in flood - risk area . what step her Department be take to protect rural community in flood - risk area . the Government ' s six - year £ 5 . 2 billion flood investment programme benefit both urban and rural community . approximately 40 % of scheme and 45 % of investment be be direct at rural community , which have benefit from our frequently flood fund , our natural flood management fund and our flood and coastal innovation programme . the Minister have visit Shrewsbury a number of time at my invitation , and have hear at first hand from the River Severn Partnership , which be try to find a holistic solution to the problem of manage Britain ' s long river rather than just create flood barrier which push the problem downstream . when can give we more information and an update on the resource be afford to the partnership to support landowner and other who can be part of that solution ? I thank my hon . friend for the great work that he do with the partnership . both the Secretary of State and I have visit his constituency . there be fund available : the £ 25 million for natural flood management scheme may be of interest to farmer , and the environmental land management scheme include provision for temporary storage capacity on farm . in the autumn , storm overflow be inevitable , and my constituent be hold their breath as they wonder whether their home will be flood once again . I understand from speak to resident that it be very unclear whom they should call when that occur , so will the Minister look again at set up a national flood line that can be call at any time , and ensure that it be connect to a local flood centre that will be accountable for a response from local service ? I have visit my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I know that she have do a great deal of work on the issue of flooding . the Environment Agency work in partnership with the Met Office to provide an online " check for flood " service , which be operate today to deal with Storm Babet . member of the public can check the flood risk , find advice and guidance on how to prepare for flooding , and sign up for warning on the gov . uk site . I call the shadow Minister . I listen carefully to the Minister ' s response , and I note that she do not mention the National Infrastructure Council ' s report , commission by the Government a year ago , which state that an extra 190 , 000 home be at risk of flooding — not because of climate change , but because of the Government ' s failure to maintain exist flood defence asset . when the Government can not even get the basic right , how can anyone possibly trust they to have the answer to the ever - increase flood risk that our country face ? that be exactly the Environment Agency ' s duty , and it work very hard on the asset management side of our flood asset , which be a very large proportion of our £ 5 . 2 billion fund . Sewage discharge what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the step take by her Department to prevent sewage discharge . we have go far and fast than any Government in history to drive down sewage discharge . last month we publish our £ 60 billion plan , which set stringent target to reduce sewage discharge . those target will prioritise action at target site . what do labour do ? it do nothing when it be in power . water company need stable finance to make improvement . in December 2022 , Ofwat outline concern about the financial resilience of several water company . what have the Minister do to mitigate the risk , and what will she be do in future ? the Ofwat report on sewage discharge , publish in September , be extremely disappointing . I have write to all the water company that be highlight as lag , and I have write to all the ceo to say that I want to meet they in person . I have also write to the ceo and chair of Ofwat to ask how they will hold these water company to account . this Government introduce monitoring , so we now know the state of the problem . the water company be now engage and Ofwat have power to put financial pressure on they . give that only 4 % of sewage overflow in Scotland be monitor , do this not show that we be progress it in the right way and that the nationalisation of water company be not the way to go ? I agree with my hon . friend . Food Affordability and Inflation what recent assessment she have make of the impact of inflation on the affordability of food . in September 2023 , the consumer price index be at 12 . 2 % , down from 14 . 8 % in July . industry analysis expect that food price inflation will continue to decrease over the remainder of 2023 . the Government be provide an average of £ 3 , 300 per household to support they with the cost of live this year and next . the West Lothian food bank in my Livingston constituency do an incredible job , just like food bank across the UK , but the reality be that it should not even have to exist . folk be struggle more than ever , which be why the SNP have call on the UK Government to control supermarket price gouging , amid record profiteering , by introduce a price cap on staple such as bread and milk . will the Minister help all our constituent by get on with do that ? if the hon . Lady compare the price of a shopping basket around Europe with the price here in the UK , she will see that the free market be do a lot of work to suppress food inflation . we have a cheap food basket than they have in France and Germany . she be , in effect , advocate communism . she should look at how that work around the world . control those market do not work . I call the SNP spokesperson . prior to the Westminster crisis that have be inflict on we all by the Tory party , a loaf of wholemeal bread cost £ 1 . 01 . even after a slight drop in food price , the price be now 20 % high . we know the farmer be not benefit from these price increase . the price of milk in supermarket today be almost twice what we pay the farmer for their product . why will the Government and the Secretary of State not consider price cap to stop the supermarket profiteer and to help ensure that basic essential be not beyond the reach of many people ? we have do an enormous amount of work in this area to help to support primary producer and farmer . we will legislate in the dairy sector to help to make sure those contract be fair , and to make sure we have fairness across the supply chain . the hon . Gentleman be advocate the control of market price , which would have exactly the opposite effect of what he want to achieve . it would drive up price across the country , and we would end up in a far bad place . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . the Met Office have issue various warning . indeed , as the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , point out , we be prepare for potentially significant storm , which be why the Environment Agency have mobilise its emergency operation centre and why temporary defence be be line up in different part of the country . we continue to encourage household to register for flood alert and warning and to take action , where appropriate . Ball Corporation have invest £ 200 million to create Europe ' s large and most modern aluminium drink can manufacture plant in Burton Latimer . will the Secretary of State be kind enough to meet the company to explore her plan to support drink can producer against potentially unfair market distortion as a result of the decision to exclude glass from the deposit return scheme ? I decide not to proceed with glass in the drs because of the complication that would bring to its introduction ; I would have think his local company would benefit from that . however , I know that the chief executive recently have a constructive and useful meeting with the recycling Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , who will take away the comment from that for further consideration as we finalise our policy . I have receive a host of email from constituent , many with respiratory problem , who be rightly complain about poor air quality . the smoke in the air be cause by heather burn on the moor , which result in a spike in poor air quality to level that be four time the legal limit . will the Government finally do the right thing and bring in an outright ban on these practice , which be affect not only my constituent ' health , but the natural environment and the climate ? the hon . Lady will be aware of the action that have be take — that Ministers require Sheffield City Council to take — to accelerate measure to improve air quality . on the wide measure that she talk about , we be not seek to ban important practice , but of course thing continue to evolve . air quality be improve and she should be grateful not only to her local council but to the Government for make that happen in her constituency . dunstable down rotary club be pay for 4 , 000 tree to be plant at Chute wood , on dunstable down . will the Minister commend this action and commend other organisation to do likewise , give the crucial importance of tree plant in combat climate change ? that be worth the wait ! I will absolutely commend Dunstable down rotary club , and the work that this Government be undertake , because tree be essential . they be the larder and the shelter for our wildlife . they be vital for our ecosystem . they protect we from flooding , prevent we from overheat and be at the forefront of this Government ' s plan for the environment . that be why we be roll out local nature recovery strategy to support more good volunteering in our local authority . will the Minister give an update on work that be take place to alleviate the impact of avian influenza ? work be ongoing on avian influenza . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that we have suffer two year of catastrophic effect of that disease . Animal and Plant Health Agency vet be work round the clock with primary producer to protect their flock . I do not want to jinx myself , but at the moment we be make good progress . we will continue to work hard with the sector to protect it and ourselves from that terrible disease . as the Secretary of State know , my constituency be chalk stream central , with the headwater of the celebrated River Test , the Bourne rivulet and the River Anton , which run through Andover . what can the Government tell I to reassure my constituent that the unique ecology of chalk stream be uppermost in their mind as they work to enhance our river across the country ? as my right hon . friend know , I know that area well . I use to live in Whitchurch , which have the River Test flow through it . we be make progress with our chalk stream action plan , but he will also be aware of the amendment that the Government agree to work with Viscount Trenchard on and which be now part of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , which I hope will become an Act very soon . some of the fine seed potato be grow in the north of Scotland . right now , the seed potato farmer be worried sick , because a lot of their crop be below water . that also pose a question mark over the supply of seed for next year . I know that this matter be devolve , but as the Minister be a farmer will he put the maximum encouragement in the direction of the Scottish Government to please help the farmer ? the hon . Gentleman have do that with his question . I do not diminish the effect that the rain be have on the seed potato crop ; once seed potato be under water for more than a week it will probably be destroy . scottish seed potato be some of the fine seed produce anywhere in the world and I encourage he to seek contact with the Scottish Government to get they to help . Kirklees Council be look to invest in its food waste recycling strategy , in line with the Environment Act 2021 , but it be still wait for full clarification and detail that support that legislation . will the Minister advise as to when that will be send to council ? that clarification will be come very soon and within it the new simple recycling approach will include mandatory collection of food waste . publicly own Scottish Water have invest £ 668 million since 2010 in improvement and commit another half a billion pound between 2021 and 2027 . that be why Scottish Water have have its product — the water around Scotland — classify as be in " good ecological condition " . why do english bill payer pay the most and get the manky water ? the hon . Gentleman be wrong about that . there be a lot of chatter about water ; we should never undermine the cleanliness of the drinking water that people enjoy . the interministerial group be work on different way of measure ecological status across the United Kingdom and we be look to see what we might do about that . we make the change in 2016 , which other part of the United Kingdom do not , and we continue to work together as responsible government . I remind the hon . Gentleman , only 4 % of storm overflow in Scotland be monitor — they would be well off get on with that . Attorney General the Attorney General be ask — what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of the Crown Prosecution Service ' s write response to complaint . although progress have be make , the CPS acknowledge that there be more to do to ensure that every complaint get a high - quality response in a timely manner . I will be discuss this very issue with the Director of Public Prosecutions at our next meeting . I be sure the Solicitor General will be aware that the CPS Inspectorate recently conduct an investigation into the response to complaint from victim of crime . it find that almost half be below standard and only a third be " adequate " . do victim of crime not deserve well ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her serious and important question . it be of the utmost importance that victim be well support by all part of the justice system . improvement need to be make . it might be worth point out that in the Inspectorate ' s report , the complainant be look at , from victim , defendant , witness , the police and other . there be clearly some way to go , but the CPS have accept each and every one of the recommendation . russia : International accountability what recent step she have take to establish international accountability for Russia ' s action against Ukraine ; and if she will make a statement . what recent step she have take to establish international accountability for Russia ' s action against Ukraine . we be support my counterpart in Ukraine , Andriy Kostin , and Ukraine ' s judiciary with an ongoing package of practical assistance . they have open over 100 , 000 file into alleged russian war crime . there be a grow body of evidence that serious crime have be commit . together , we will ensure that allegation of war crime be investigate robustly and independently . while the House be naturally focus on what have happen in the middle east and the Hamas attack against Israel , the war in Ukraine continue . what assessment have my right hon . Friend make of the abduction of young child from Ukraine to Russia ? force deportation of child be particularly abhorrent . in July , the Foreign Secretary announce 40 new sanction against russian official who have be involve in the force deportation of ukrainian child and the spreading of hate - fill propaganda . we continue to work closely with the Ukrainians . I be see Andriy Kostin in person again next week , and we remain involved at all level , from the International Criminal Court to local prosecution . in the context of Russia ' s aggression against Ukraine , what step be the Attorney General take at international judicial level to ensure the rule of law be uphold ? at the end of last month , I be honour to appear personally before the International Court of Justice in the Hague . I make the UK ' s submission in the case against Russia concern the genocide convention . it be an important moment for the international rule of law . I fear this will be a long process , but we will pay our full part . I thank the Attorney General for her response and understanding of our request . unfortunately , one thing that be not mention much about Ukraine be that when east Donbas be invade and Crimea be take over , many baptist pastor go missing . they be abduct , kidnap and kill , and nobody have be hold accountable . will the Attorney General intervene in that situation and help to give accountability to those family who have lose love one ? the hon . Gentleman always speak so passionately , particularly on behalf of those involve in help other with their religious belief , make sure that they be not persecute around the world . I have hear what he have say . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Attorney General have rightly say that international accountability for Russia ' s action in Ukraine be very important . she will also be aware that some deep concern have be express that Russia may be exploit the very volatile and fragile situation in Israel and Palestine , with its reportedly close link with Hamas and accusation of facilitate international terrorism . do she share those concern , and what effort do she think the international community can take to counter that ? the UK have a strong track record of support international law , and we ask that our friend and partner do the same . it be clear to we that all party should abide by international law . it be very much bring home to I in that room in the Hague that Russia and Ukraine have not be in many room together during the past 18 month , but a courtroom bring they to the same place , and that show the power of international law . Crown Prosecution Service : access to Justice what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Crown Prosecution Service in ensure access to justice for victim of crime . what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Crown Prosecution Service in ensure access to justice for victim of crime . the Government be commit to ensure that victim be treat fairly and compassionately . we know that join - up work across the criminal justice system work , and we know that support victim make a real difference . that be why we be spend four time as much on victim support as be the case in 2010 . there be victim of crime in our country who have have to wait year for their case to come to court , who have bravely give testimony to ensure that the criminal who rob or attack they be convict , and who , this week , will have to watch those criminal be bail rather than jail , because the prison be too full to pass sentence against they . what message would the Attorney General like to send to those victim ? the message that I want to send to victim today be that they be very important to this Government . we want they to come forward and we want to investigate and prosecute the crime of which they be the victim as well and as expeditiously as we can . I listen to what the Lord Chancellor have to say on Monday and I be impressed that he be put those prison place in the right part of the system , focus on those serve time for long , more violent and more worrying offence , with those at the other end of the prison system — those on that revolving wheel of go in and out of prison — be treat in a different way . we want and he want — it be clear to I that he feel this very strongly — to reduce crime , and he be make sure that the whole of the criminal justice system and the prison system work to achieve that aim . shockingly , accord to the late figure , more than 6 , 400 Crown court case have be wait more than two year to be hear . that be up more than two third on last year alone . what do the Attorney General have to say to the victim , who , to their despair , have find that their life have be put on hold while they be wait for justice ? and what do she say to those who can no long cope with any more delay even if that mean have to let their case collapse ? I be happy to say that the hon . Gentleman and I share a local Crown prosecution area in Thames and Chiltern where the local victim attrition rate be well below the national average . it be run at about 13 % . any attrition be too high , and we want to make sure that we support victim to enable they to continue to bring their case . that be why we have put in place about 800 independent sexual violence adviser to help those victim feel supported and able to go to trial . a couple of week ago , we have a series of very distressing break - in to small owner - manager business in Leighton Buzzard High Street . I know that the owner and Bedfordshire police be disappoint in the response of the CPS . would it be possible to get the CPS together with those business owner to try to improve thing in the future ? I be sorry to hear about those distressing case . of course , either the Solicitor General or I would be delighted to meet our hon . friend to discuss this far . I call the shadow Attorney General . last month , I have the pleasure of host the brilliant Women ' s Budget Group in Parliament for the launch of its report on gender gap in access to civil justice . across the board , from employment and benefit to domestic violence and housing , the report find too many woman reach crisis point before they get the help that they need , as well as increase number get no help at all and have to represent themselves in court . will the Attorney General raise those finding with the Justice Secretary and look at how the Government can address the disproportionate impact on woman of our country ' s legal aid desert ? the right hon . Lady make an important point . I read with interest some of the work that she have be do with other for whom I have enormous respect in this important area . I know that she be very capable of raise those matter herself with the Justice Secretary , but I reassure she that the access of everybody to justice be very much at the top of my agenda and his . violence against Women and girl : prosecution rate what step she be take to increase prosecution rate for case relate to violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to increase prosecution rate for case relate to violence against woman and girl . we be committed to tackle violence against woman and girl , and have introduce new specific offence to target those crime . we be steadily increase the number of rape prosecution . we be work on new way to recognise the relationship between rape , domestic abuse and stalking . close work across the system be the key to effective prosecution . at Labour ' s recent conference in Liverpool , my right hon . friend the shadow Attorney General highlight the shocking statistic that it be 200 time more likely for a woman to be a victim of stalk in this country than it be for her stalker to go to jail . do the Attorney General agree that it be time that we start treat stalk with the seriousness that it deserve , include give victim of online stalk a right to know the identity of their stalker ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important issue , and I reassure he that the Government be absolutely committed to help stalk victim to bring their case to prosecution . the Lord Chancellor have make that something of a mission during his time in the House ; I remember my many year with he on the Justice Committee when he talk of little else . we be work in the CPS on new way of ensure that the complicated relationship between rape , domestic abuse and stalking be properly consider across the system . prosecution rate for violence against woman and girl remain low , and that simply be not good enough . next month , we will mark White Ribbon Day , when man show their commitment to end violence against woman and girl . what discussion have the Attorney General have with colleague across Government about White Ribbon Day , and what more can be do to increase prosecution rate and eradicate violence against woman and girl once and for all ? a great deal of work be go on across Government to tackle violence against woman and girl , and I be pleased to tell the hon . Lady that a great deal of really good work be happen in her area in Wales . when I visit the Cardiff office early this summer we have some very productive discussion about the implementation of the new CPS charge model . I encourage she to meet Jenny Hopkins , who be the chief Crown prosecutor for her specific area , to hear more about how that hard work have bring some really positive result . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . just before the recess , the then Director of Public Prosecutions give evidence to the Justice Committee and highlight the specific area of work be do to improve the victim experience in relation to rape and serious sexual offence . while there be more to do , would the Attorney General accept that there have be real progress from the position even , say , 10 year ago ? what be the late position in relation to the key target that be set from the end - to - end rape review ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and for remind I that I should pay tribute to the outgoing DPP , Max Hill , for his five year of excellent work on our behalf prosecute crime . I be sure that all of we across the House would like to wish he well in the next stage of his career . on my hon . friend ' s specific question , the rape review set challenge target . we have work very hard across Government — the Home Office , AGs and the Ministry of Justice — on three of those target in particular , and we be exceed they considerably . we be in a much well place . many more case of rape be be prosecute and rapist be be convict . we need to continue to build on that progress — we will not rest on our laurel — but there have be real improvement . if anybody be a victim of rape , I encourage they to come forward . we will support they , and we will prosecute . solicitor : civil Society what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Justice on the contribution of solicitor to civil society . as my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor agree , solicitor and , indeed , all legal professional play a vital role in uphold the rule of law . as Solicitor General , I take this opportunity to thank Government Legal Service lawyer for their exceptional work every day , often under pressure , on some of the most high - profile case in the country . that be all very well , but the Justice Minister denounce lawyer for parade their politic , while the Home Secretary believe that there be a racket of " lefty lawyer " undermine the law . do the Attorney General not agree that , instead of deflect blame from the serial ineptitude of a break Home Office decimate by her colleague , she should stand up for the profession as impartial arbiter of the rule of law ? the Attorney General and I often meet legal leader across the profession both to celebrate their achievement and to hear their concern . it be right to say that lawyer act in the good interest of their client should never be criticise for so do . but it be also right to say , as the Lord Chancellor have also say , that it be the strong tradition of lawyer in this country that they simply act for their client without fear or favour and do not necessarily associate themselves with the cause . I agree 100 % with the Lord Chancellor . what assessment have the Solicitor General make of the strength of the legal profession in rural area ? Mr Speaker , you have hear about the " law tour " that the Attorney General and I recently enter into . we meet some lawyer in Welshpool and hear from high street solicitor about the importance of their practice , not only in Wales but on the Welsh border . my hon . friend should look out for more detail about the law tour . Serious Fraud Office Director what assessment she have make of the implication for her policy of the appointment of the new director of the Serious Fraud Office . the Attorney General and I meet the new director , Nick Ephgrave , yesterday and discuss the SFO ' s priority , include continue to deliver its day - to - day mission and drive forward last improvement to its operation . I have be contact by constituent who have be victim of financial scam carry out by large organise criminal gang , which often target the more vulnerable in our community . what step be the Solicitor General take to end the scourge of these fraud and scam , and will it be a priority for the new director of the SFO ? I can tell my hon . friend that the SFO announce a criminal investigation just last week into a suspect fraud at Safe Hands Plans , a funeral plan provider with 46 , 000 plan holder before its collapse last year . my hon . friend have raise this very point during an early debate , and I be grateful to he for that . I be sure that he will agree that the announcement of the SFO ' s investigation be a significant and welcome step . will the new head of the SFO take the job very seriously and look again at some of the big fraudster and at the penalty ? will the Solicitor General ask the new director why Bernie Ecclestone do not go to prison for massive fraud against the tax system ? the hon . Gentleman give I the opportunity to pay tribute to the new director . he be the right candidate for the job . he bring a wealth of experience . he will listen to what the hon . Gentleman say and to what we all say in this Chamber . he have expertise in lead large , complex and multidisciplinary law enforcement organisation , and we look forward to support he in his work . his Majesty ' s Crown Prosecution Service inspectorate inspect not only the CPS , but the SFO , so it be remiss of I early not to pay tribute to the inspectorate and to the chief inspector for his work . I call the shadow Minister . I join the Solicitor General in welcome Nick Ephgrave as he take on one of the most difficult job in law enforcement . his arrival in post be announce by the SFO abandon the three long - run and expensive prosecution of Rio Tinto , Eurasian Natural Resources , and the Alpha and Green Park group . that follow a chain of fail case , from G4S and Serco to Unaoil . with permanent staff vacancy of around 25 % , and a case load that have fall by half in recent year , why should the new director think that this lame duck Government will make the SFO a hawk in the world of financial crime ? I will ignore the snide comment at the end but I will address the substance of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , which he be right to ask . it be also right to say that it be always disappointing when case be closed , but criminal investigation that no long meet the public interest test , as he well know , simply can not continue . that be the code that Crown prosecutor take , and he will understand why that be the case . it be right to trumpet the SFO ' s achievement ; it be also right to challenge it . I know that staff recruitment and retention will be one of the priority for the new director . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . during Question Time , the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs say that air quality in our country be improve . there be no evidence for that statement and , although I do not believe that she mean to , she mislead the House . if there be no evidence , we will never know whether she do or do not . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the business for next week ? the business for the week commence 23 October be as follow : Monday 23 October — Second reading of the Renters ( Reform ) Bill . Tuesday 24 October — Motion to approve the draft Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( Removal of Prisoners for deportation ) Order 2023 , follow by consideration of a Lords message to the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , follow by a debate on the fourth report of the Procedure Committee , on correct the record . Wednesday 25 October — consideration of a Lords message to the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Non - Domestic Rating Bill , follow by , if necessary , consideration of a Lords message to the Procurement Bill [ Lords ] , follow by , if necessary , consideration of a Lords message to the Energy Bill [ Lords ] , follow by Report stage of the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill , follow by , if necessary , consideration of any further Lords message . Thursday 26 October — if necessary , consideration of Lords message , follow by a general debate on menopause . the subject for this debate have be determine by the Backbench Business Committee , follow by , if necessary , consideration of Lords message . Friday 27 October — the House will not be sit . the House will be prorogue when Royal Assent to all act have be signify . may I first take a moment to remember our former colleague Sir David Amess , who be brutally murder two year ago while carry out his duty ? his memory and legacy still shine brightly . as we continue to witness the horror of the event unfold in Israel and Gaza , and the emotion that they raise here at home , Hate Crime Awareness Week be a timely reminder that we stand united against hate . the whole House speak with one voice against antisemitism and Islamophobia . as member , we know that event in the middle east be directly and indirectly impact on our constituent . we stand in solidarity . we condemn unequivocally the heartless terrorist action of Hamas . Israel have the right to defend itself , rescue hostage and protect its border . international law must be uphold at all time . the life of innocent civilian must be safeguard , and every possible assistance must be make available to those who need help . there must be immediate humanitarian access to Gaza for aid , food , water , medicine , fuel and electricity . we welcome development today , but it be urgent and it need to be sustain . Hamas be not the palestinian people , and the palestinian people be not Hamas . we will continue to be strong advocate for justice , human right and international law , and to keep alive the prospect of peace base on a two - state solution . will the Prime Minister update the House follow his visit this week ? I be afraid that I return again to a running theme : the disrespect and disregard that the Government have for Parliament . Mr Speaker , I know that we be both appal that the Prime Minister choose the very first day of recess to announce a major shift in Government net zero policy from Downing Street , while the Leader of the House sit in the front row and cheer . it be no wonder he be duck parliamentary scrutiny , with his fiction of seven bin and meat taxis , and his substance be meet with alarm by industry and investor . it be not a one - off but a pattern , no matter how many time you pull they up on it , Mr Speaker . again this week the Justice Secretary announce first to the press that he be abolish short prison sentence — something the ministerial code forbid . and of course , we have have the great northern train robbery , deny for week and finally announce at Conservative party conference . despite mp have spend 1 , 300 hour of legislative time on High Speed 2 Bills , we have have no say on it . only this Prime Minister could cancel major rail infrastructure to Manchester while in Manchester . this shoddy back - of - the - fag - packet new transport plan , affect many constituency , have not withstand exposure to reality . Most of the " new " scheme be already announce , previously cancel or complete year ago . other be simply illustrative . Euston station remain a pipe dream , and Network North now reach Cornwall . it turn out that spreadsheet guy can not even read a spreadsheet . it be not so much a relaunch as a crash landing — in a private jet , of course . the contempt that this Government have for Parliament be a disgrace , and we have a Leader of the House who clap along . Parliament need answer . what will now happen to the HS2 hybrid Bill , which be necessary to deliver the central section of Northern Powerhouse Rail and safeguard the land for it ? when and how be the decision to scrap it make ? the Secretary of State for Transport be under the illusion that he make it the day before — pull the other one ! — yet the video share from their party conference be clearly make day early in Downing Street . when be this take , and should a party conference video be make in Downing Street at all ? there be another pattern here . Conservative HQ have release video of Conservative Members and a Cabinet Minister announce Government project . can the Leader of the House assure we that Conservative Members be not be give advance notice of government announcement , and if they be , will she confirm that this breach the ministerial code ? finally , I want to congratulate the Leader of the House on achieve meme status for her conference speech . it be — how can I put this ? — a call to arm to stand up and fight . well , it certainly involve lot of arm , anyway . so why do she not stand up and fight for Parliament ; stand up and fight for member to hear Government policy first , or for colleague not to be hoodwink when big decision be take ? why do she not stand up and fight for trust to be restore in politic ? the truth be that she be more interested in stand up and fight for her own leadership ambition . as a fan of boat , she should know that a new captain be not save this sink ship . it be time for they all to get off . first , I thank the hon . Lady and join she in remember our late colleague , Sir David Amess . his legacy live on , not just in city status for Southend ; the many charity and project that he foster be go from strength to strength , and they be a daily reminder of the work he do and the effect and impact he have . I add my voice to those of many in this Chamber who have express their horror , sadness and sympathy with all those catch up in the situation in Israel and Gaza . my thought be particularly with those who have lose love one in the most barbaric terrorist attack , and with those take hostage and their family who await news of they . at time like these , we in this place may feel that we can not directly help , but we all can . we can all make judgment base on fact , promote those fact and debunk deliberate disinformation campaign , keep informed and wide - eyed about the reality of the situation , and reassure community here in the UK . on behalf of all colleague , I thank the armed force , the Royal Fleet Auxiliary , our diplomat and humanitarian expert , and the police for all that they be do to protect and secure people ' s safety in the middle east and at home . I join the hon . Lady in say that all of we in this place be unite against hate . she will know that the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary be currently in the region , and I be sure that they will want to update the House . I be sure that many colleague will want up - to - date information , particularly about some of the situation that have happen in Gaza and the fact behind those situation . as such , I can also tell the hon . Lady that my office have be in touch with the House of Commons Library to ensure that what information be available be give in a timely way to member of the House . the hon . Lady criticise I very robustly about my role as this House ' s representative in Government . I hope to be able to reassure the House of my record on that front . first , I hope that Mr Speaker would support I in say that I have always follow up any criticism that this House have make of any Government Department — more , I think , than anyone else who have hold the role . my noble friend Lord True and I have also introduce training programme for Government Departments to ensure that they know what their obligation to this House be . her complaint against I might have have more effect have the letter she write to I complain about this issue not be receive by myself only after it have be brief to the Daily Mirror , which be where I find out about it . I do cheer our announcement on net zero , unlike the Labour party , whose path to net zero would include immense burden on work people . we have choose a different path to alleviate that burden . the hon . Lady invite I to contrast our party ' record on infrastructure , and particularly rail . I remind she that in the 13 year we have be in power , we have electrify 1 , 220 mile of track . in the same time period , Labour manage just 70 mile . I be not go to apologise for stand up and fight for this country ; even prior to take this role , I think my record have be one of stand up and fight for this House . hon . member will know that , in the first year of the pandemic , I spend every single day on the phone , to all member of this House , in my role as Paymaster General , update they on what be happen . I take my responsibility to this House very seriously indeed . I will always stand up and fight for this House and for my country . I will not be lie down with just stop oil and damage our energy security . I will not be potentially lie down with the Liberal Democrats — I note the hon . Lady ' s encourage word about proportional representation . I will not be lie down with the SNP , which the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) will be pleased to hear , and contemplate assist that party on a second referendum . those be the fact , and I can understand why Labour do not like they . that be perhaps why it have choose to ban some news programming available on Freeview to anyone operate in the Senedd . further business may be announce in the usual way , or by his Majesty the King on 7 November . I associate myself with the word about our late colleague Sir David Amess . I be privileged to serve with he on the all - party parliamentary group on the Holy See , of which he be a dedicated chairman . in consider future business , may I draw the Leader of the House ' s attention to the collapse of a company in my constituency , Initiative Property Management , which manage a large number of residential block in my constituency and more widely ? since the collapse , many resident have see building work on their block cease , and have be unable to access ten of thousand of pound of their own money in management fee . while the matter be now be investigate by Dorset police — and I do not invite my right hon . friend to comment on that — may I suggest that there may be a regulatory gap here ? it appear that management company of this style do not fall under the regulatory framework of the Financial Conduct Authority . I invite the Leader of the House to make Government colleague aware of the fact , and perhaps ask they to take a look at it . first , I thank my right hon . friend for all the work he be do at what must be a very worrying time for his constituent who be affect . he will know that the Government be currently consider the recommendation in the final report from my noble friend Lord Best ' s working group on the regulation of property agent . of course , the Financial Conduct Authority currently have a limited role , and although we be not seek to expand its role , we want to ensure that it can be a more innovative , assertive and adaptive regulator . I call the SNP spokesperson . I associate myself with all the remark about Sir David . the Leader of the House have previously comment on how much she enjoy our exchange at business question , as do I . it be the weekly forum where I challenge she on our deep and profound difference in policy and priority , and there will be plenty of opportunity in the next few week and month to tackle she on her Government ' s shortcoming . however , today , like so many people , my thought be with the civilian population in Gaza and Israel . People across all nation of the UK share this House ' s revulsion and fear of what we see unfold — revulsion at the barbarism of Hamas and fear of what the future hold for innocent child , woman and man in both Gaza and Israel . a huge number of mp have constituent who be worried sick about friend or relative who be catch up in these event , and of course community across the UK will be anxious about what we be witness and its potential impact . as the House will know , Scotland ' s First Minister , Humza Yousaf , and his wife and family be directly affect in the most terrible way , and my thought be also with they today . the UK Government have several role to fulfil in this crisis , and there be an urgent need for action , as we all know . in the first instance , they must direct their effort to the enormous humanitarian aid need in southern Gaza — medical supply , water , food , basic power . twenty truck be a start , but there be apparently 100 stand by and they must get through . however , they need to travel safely through , so call for an immediate ceasefire to facilitate the provision of aid in Gaza and to give evacuee a safe passage out be vital , as be the release of all the hostage — one ' s heart break to think of they — and the use of every possible diplomatic effort to stop an escalation into a wide regional conflict . the Government should join First Minister Humza Yousaf in call for a worldwide refugee scheme similar to that establish for syrian , afghan and ukrainian refugee . in the long term , they should use all their power to keep the two - state solution alive and keep a dialogue for peace open . they must rise to many challenge , and we wish the Prime Minister well in his endeavour today . will the Leader of the House confirm that he will deliver a statement about the outcome on his return ? of course , we will return to the business of scrutinise the Government ' s action in the usual way when politic return to some sort of normality , hopefully very soon . I thank the hon . Lady for dwell on that particular matter , because I think that be the prime concern for all member of the House this weekend . I join she , as I be sure all colleague will want to , in her sentiment about the plight of the First Minister ' s family and in wish that that have a good outcome . the hon . Lady will know that additional humanitarian support be be provide by the Government to the region , which be build on many year of provide support . we be one of the major contributor to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , and we have do a huge amount of work in Lebanon to support the refugee programme there . so we bring not just the financial offer , but decade of expertise in work in the region and with our network . of course we want hostility to end , but I would just say to the hon . Lady that we be deal with a terrorist organisation , and negotiate ceasefire with terrorist organisation be a very difficult thing to do . the hon . Lady be right to highlight the plight of hostage , and one way we can all help be by keep a focus on those individual and their family in the come day — I hope not week — and on their return . this be another area where the UK have a lot of expertise to offer . Israel will not have have a lot of expertise in hostage negotiation . not just the Government but our non - governmental organisation have huge experience of work with organisation such as the International Committee of the Red Cross and interlocutor in try to get hostage extract . I know that all we can do to help will be on offer . she be also right to point to the fact that the barbaric terrorist attack that kick off this chain of event be in part design to wreck any chance of peace , in particular the progress that be be make between Israel , Saudi Arabia and other in normalising relation . I thank she for the opportunity to send a message from all of we in this House that this be our focus and concern . an incredibly impressive Stroud constituent call Sally - Anne come to see I last week about the contaminate blood scandal . her father be a haemophiliac and be sadly affect by what we now know be a national and international scandal ; family have spend decade seek answer and compensation . Sally - Anne have turn her pain and her worry for her father into action , and she be do a phd to look at the wide impact on family , and at the McFarlane Trust work . I know that the Leader of the House be incredibly respect on this issue , and she have fight for victim of the infected blood scandal for many year . will she clarify how I can well use time in this House to push those issue for the wide family affect , and say whether a debate or other action will assist ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work she be do to support her constituent , and to ensure that those affect and infect by that appalling scandal get justice swiftly . if she secure a debate on this issue , it would be most welcome and well attend by many across the House . I have say this before , but we should recognise that even though we be talk about a small number of individual as a percentage of the population , this issue be relevant to everyone in this country . what happen to those individual could have happen to anyone in this country , and how we respond to that be important . that be why I be pleased that this Government have set up the inquiry , why I set up a compensation study to run concurrently with the inquiry , and why we must ensure that we press forward with get those people some recompense for all they have suffer . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I be grateful , Mr Speaker . may I ask you and the Leader of the House to help we by help to facilitate the re - establishment of the Backbench Business Committee as soon as possible after the King ' s Speech in the new parliamentary session ? I will be write to the Leader of the House with a list of as yet unaired debate from this session which might be hold prior to the re - establishment of the Committee in the new Session . we have application for debate in this Chamber and in Westminster Hall on subject such as protection for child with allergy , heritage pub , float offshore wind generation , knife crime , and several other . I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on rail in the north . yesterday I have a meeting with the Rail Industry Association ' s northern section , and we be reflect on what the chair of the National Infrastructure Commission say yesterday in urge the Government not to sell off too quickly land acquisition for High - Speed 2 on cancel northern route . those land acquisition may well facilitate other scheme in the northern region , and we hope that the Government would not sell those asset off too quickly . finally , as part of the crisis in Israel , Palestine and Gaza , a number of family in my constituency have be affect . prior to the horrific Hamas attack be the jewish festival of Sukkot . a number of family from my Orthodox Haredi jewish community be in Israel celebrate Sukkot and then become strand and could not get home . some have have to pay eye - watering sum to travel home by alternative mean , because lot of flight be cancel . will the Leader of the House help I and those who have have to pay out sometimes whole - life saving to get their family of six or seven back home from Israel ? I thank the hon . gentleman for a helpful advert for future potential business for his Committee . we have have conversation about this matter before , and I be keen to ensure that the Committee be re - establish quickly so that it can get on with its important work . he raise an important point , with which I agree , that it be important that thing have a proper masterplan , so I will write to make sure that the Secretaries of State for Transport and for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have hear what he have say today . the hon . Gentleman will know that in case where people be unable to return because they can not afford to get out of a situation , there be scheme in place , run by the Foreign Office , under which people may be loan finance . many insurance product will not cover terrorist event , so I will make sure that the relevant Department have hear his concern on that front . my right hon . friend the Leader of the House will be aware that in Lancashire we have secure £ 2 billion at least for a brand - new hospital to replace the much - love but age Royal Preston , which have cold , dark corridor and a flat roof that can occasionally leak . with a number of site in South Ribble under consideration , it be down to the wonderful Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust , Lancashire County Council and local borough authority to get on with that site selection . I hope , like I , that she would love to see they get on with that . with Chorley hospital ' s future secure as one of only eight elective surgical hub in the country , do my right hon . friend agree that this Government be commit to deliver a once - in - a - generation investment in healthcare in South Ribble ? can we have a debate in Government time about the importance of these investment for local community ? first , I congratulate my hon . friend and thank she for all the work she have do to secure the £ 2 billion - worth of funding for her hospital , and also for manage to secure one of those critical elective hub . that be an achievement of which she should be proud . she be right that we be committed to the big programme in a generation of hospital building . we be also prioritise the delivery of 160 community diagnostic centre , which be so important to ensure that people be get healthcare in a timely way . I be sure if she want to apply for a debate on those topic , it would be well attend . the Warburton toll bridge be a vital route , link Greater Manchester and Cheshire across the Manchester ship canal . a recent consultation of local community on a propose eightfold increase to the toll charge be meet with unanimous opposition , include from Partington and Carrington in my constituency . despite that , the Secretary of State for Transport have approve the associated transport and work order . can we have a debate in Government time on the step that should be available to member to challenge such decision and , importantly , how we can strengthen the voice of local community , such as Partington and Carrington , to ensure they be hear fully in decision of this nature in the future ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this important matter . he will know that I will not be able to comment on particular scheme , but I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Transport have hear about that scheme . it be important that local voice be listen to when such matter be put in place . I question the relationship between the work order that the Secretary of State have sign and the fee , but I will certainly look into this matter for the hon . Gentleman . if he would like to give I some further information , I will be happy to write on his behalf . I wonder whether we could have a debate in Government time about liberal Democrat council — something we could spend hour on . the Government have very kindly give Mid Devon £ 660 , 000 for new housing , and I be grateful to Ministers for that , but the problem be that it have be give to a council that be inept . it have a development that be go wrong now . the leader of the council , who double up as a perfume - pack guy call Eau de Toilette and be the member who deal with scrutiny , be appalling . can we please have time to discuss give money to council that be not able to spend it properly ? we need Government control to ensure the money be spend wisely . I be sorry to hear of another ongoing concern for my hon . friend ' s constituent . it be important that , when money be distribute , it be give to body that will get on and do what be need . sometimes , local authority be not the good body to do that , which be why , when I be look after the coastal community fund , I always keep open the option for local community group , charity and organisation that would qualify to be monitor officer for such fund to administer they . I shall ensure that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have hear his concern . will the Leader of the House consider arrange for a statement or an early debate on the danger of gambling and the gambling industry ' s impact on child and young people ? there be increase evidence that these big gambling concern be use social medium to get child engage in gambling at an early age , as well as many vulnerable people . may we have a debate on the power and influence of this massive , wealthy industry ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . he will know that there have be a focus on all aspect of gambling , include online and offline gambling and the level of stake spend by individual . if he be to apply for a debate , there would be much to discuss and it would be well attend . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport have hear what he say . could we have a debate on medium reporting of the conflict between Israel and Hamas so that we can hold to account those medium outlet that choose to rush to blame Israel for the hospital tragedy without a sound evidential basis ? accurate reporting be crucial . fail to deliver that make the situation bad , could cost life and could fuel hatred and antisemitism here in the UK . I thank my right hon . friend for raise that important point . there be two issue . one be the Ofcom code and certain broadcaster ' adherence to it . the guidance for that code say : " broadcaster should have regard to the list of proscribe terror group or organisation in the UK " , which be incredibly important . it be also critical that reporter , sometimes station in very stressful environment , report fact as fact and that those thing that be not fact — thing that have not be verify or be line to take from terrorist organisation — should not be treat as fact . the BBC do focus on these thing to a very large degree , but we know that sometimes it do not get thing right , as we see recently with its code of conduct surround the Gary Lineker situation . I be sure that it will want to kick the tyre on this and ensure that anyone listen to a BBC outlet be be give the good possible information . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I echo what have be say this morning about the terrible conflict in Israel and Palestine and repeat what my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) say : peace be now more difficult than war , so the global community have to come together and press for peace . many of my constituent have write to I in dismay about seasonal variation in train fare . for example , during recess , Great Western be charge £ 46 for a peak return from Bath to London on 17 November . for the same journey on 30 November , the cost have shoot up to £ 94 — more than double . may we have a statement from the rail Minister on why such large variation in price be allow and what the Government can do to make train price more transparent ? the hon . Lady raise a concern matter that will make life difficult for her constituent , who be try to budget and anticipate their outgoing . I will certainly ensure that the Transport Secretary have hear her concern , and I will ask that his Department advise she on what action she can take . the Grimsby Telegraph be carry a report of a local man who , for the last 25 year , have be collect fly - tip rubbish from various site around the town . after 25 year , he have now be tell that he need a licence to take the rubbish to the tip . that be just one example of so many petty regulation that discourage community - minded people from assist in the local area . could we have a debate so that member from across the House can identify those petty regulation and sweep they away ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point and for afford we the opportunity to thank his constituent , who appear to be provide a much - need community service that his local authority be not . we want people who want to step up , take responsibility and help their community to be able to do so . he be right to call out ridiculous behaviour that prevent that from happen . I be sure there be other example and , if he be to have a debate , we could expose some of they . could we please have a statement from the Paymaster General in the light of Sir Brian Langstaff move his final report on the infected blood inquiry to next March , due to the number of individual and organisation that will be criticise in it , and in the light of the fact that the Government have rightly give £ 600 , 000 in compensation to the victim of the Horizon scandal without wait for the final report ? it would be very timely to have a report because we know that the Government be work to the November deadline . we keep be tell that work be " at pace " , so it should be ready for next month in any event . I thank the right hon . Lady for raise this matter and for all her work through the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , which she have chair for many year . it be not lose on anyone that those individual have wait far too long for redress in this appalling situation . I know that the Paymaster General feel that way , too , and I will ensure that he have hear her request for he to update the House . at its conference this weekend , an SNP MP say he be " sick and tired " of Scottish Conservatives speak in Parliament about the a9 . the Leader of the House will know that that be a crucial road between Perth and Inverness and up to Wick which the SNP promise would be fully dualle . that be not happen . can we have a debate in this House to discuss that crucial infrastructure project ? perhaps the hon . member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) will attend and stand up for his constituent , rather than sit down and support the SNP Government ' s failure to dual that road and the A96 through my constituency . I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . I happen to see what I would describe as a spittle - fleck monologue , criticise member of the general public in Scotland for dare to voice their disappointment at the quality of the a9 and other road infrastructure . my advice to the hon . member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) be that if he do not want the public to continually complain about thing , he might dual those road , as that project have be long overdue . the public should have decent road for the taxis they pay . order . I presume that the hon . Gentleman inform the hon . member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) of his question ? yes I do , Madam Deputy Speaker , and he respond to thank I . it be useful for I to know that you have do that . when a government announce that they have identify a problem face the public and simultaneously announce that they have identify the only possible solution , I be always a little sceptical . twenty year ago , the Labour Government announce that diesel vehicle be good for the environment ; today , as we know , they be vilify and effectively be tax off the road . we be now tell that electric vehicle be our only salvation , despite grow concern about their safety and real question about the true environmental cost of manufacturing and dispose of their lithium battery . may we have a debate on the cost and benefit of electric vehicle ? the hon . Gentleman will know how to apply for a debate in the usual way . he have recently apply for debate and I think he have a debate on another topic later this week . the House be always happy to facilitate that . he be absolutely right : we want to ensure that information be take from a wide range of source . historically , there have be scandal ; we have the EU emission scandal relate to diesel vehicle . it be very important that information be out there and people can scrutinise it . I encourage all member to make use of the House of Commons Library , which be a tremendous repository of information , but also to take their information from a wide variety of source . it be understandable that , after suffer the bad terrorist atrocity in its history and the large loss of jewish life since the holocaust , the state of Israel will now seek to eliminate the threat of Hamas and all the other terrorist organisation . Mr Speaker enable a statement on Monday and then an urgent question . rather than a statement , would it not be well for the House to have a debate , in Government time and on a Government motion , so that it can express its support for the state of Israel and we can come to a ready conclusion to send a strong signal ? do the Leader of the House agree that there can be no equivalence between the Hamas terrorist , who kill , maim and torture civilian and try to eliminate as many Jews as they possibly can , and the Israel Defence Forces , which seek to target terrorist and minimise civilian casualty ? I think that many member of this House would want further opportunity to discuss this very important matter , so I suggest to my hon . friend that he pursue the idea of a debate . there have be discussion over the last week of proportionality , and the term " collective punishment " have be use on the Floor of the House . it be incredibly important that we recognise that the International Committee of the Red Cross principle of proportionality do not mean an eye for an eye , as some have suggest . that would be perverse . we do not suggest via that very important principle that , if the Israel Defence Forces raid Gaza and behead a precise number of infant or burn a precise number of family or rape a precise number of woman and girl , that would be okay — of course not . that be not what proportionality mean . the principle of proportionality seek to limit damage cause by military operation by require that the effect of the mean and method of warfare must not be disproportionate to the military advantage seek . what Israel be try to do be end Hamas , a terror organisation that be a block to peace . the IDF be a train military force that be subject to the rule of armed conflict and international law . its soldier be train in these ethical matter . its target doctrine and analysis of it be in the public domain and subject to scrutiny . I do not think that Hamas produce joint service publication , but if it do , they would say the opposite . it be there to cause damage and suffering to israeli civilian and it have no regard , either , to the value of palestinian life , whose suffering appear to be acceptable collateral damage to its cause . it be very important that all of we in this House understand those critical principle , and I be sure that the Library will be able to assist hon . member . I be pleased to hear the Leader of the House be so unequivocal about Hate Crime Awareness Week . in that vein , can we have a debate on respectful language in politic , particularly when we be discuss vulnerable group and minority ? the dog - whistle transphobic language and comment from some at the top of her party during its conference be abhorrent . they shame we all . I know that that do not apply to all her colleague , because I be work actively with some of they on these appalling issue . the Leader of the House and I have have some discussion and I have hear her support for the trans community , but do she understand that our trans sibling be face unprecedented level of abuse , and that they be scared ? what they need be kindness and humanity , not senior politician use they as a punchline . I thank the hon . Lady for afford I the opportunity , as a member of this Government , to reassert that we want to ensure that everyone in our society , particularly those who be most vulnerable and most misunderstood as a group , be protect and support and feel safe . that be part of the reason why the Government undertake the large survey in the world of LGBT people and their experience of day - to - day life , and from that survey produce an action plan many of whose element have already be deliver . this be a priority for the Government . we have a trans MP on our Benches , and we have Members of Parliament whose child or other family member be tran people . the shambolic leadership of Labour - run Kirklees Council have take the council to the brink of bankruptcy . its member be blame everyone but themselves , and local leisure centre , include Colne Valley leisure centre in Slaithwaite , be now under threat of closure . may we have a debate on how fail council can be hold to account for their financial ineptitude so that people do not suffer the loss of vital local service such as leisure centre ? I be extremely sorry to hear about the situation that my hon . friend ' s constituent be have to endure , and I can sense his frustration at the fact that many of the service they enjoy be now in jeopardy . he will know how to apply for a debate on this matter , but I would say to his constituent that they will have an opportunity to hold to account the people who be put those service in jeopardy at next year ' s local election . may I ask a question about business in the new Session ? the Government ask the Culture , Media and Sport Committee to scrutinise and report on the draft Media Bill and be also keen for we to scrutinise the fan - lead review of football governance and the White Paper " a sustainable future — reform club football governance " , but we hear from within Government that there be some pushback on the inclusion of those item in the King ' s Speech because they be not divisive enough at this stage , when the Government want to divide rather than unite . can the Leader of the House assure we that that be not the case , and that the medium Bill and the proposal for an independent football regulator will be include in the new legislative programme ? the hon . Gentleman , who be a very experienced parliamentarian , will know that , because of the rule apply to the King ' s Speech , I can not give that assurance from the Dispatch Box at this time . however , I want to place on record my thank to he and his colleague for the work that they have do on these important matter . as he will know , the Government be commit to both of they and , as a supporter of Portsmouth football club , I be particularly committed to the second . he will not have long to wait for the answer to his question . give that Bernie Ecclestone be now pay £ 652 million in back taxis , may I , through the Leader of the House , make an autumn statement representation and propose that we use that huge sum to ensure that all the GP surgery and other health facility that be commit to in planning application for large - scale housing estate and have not yet appear will now be build ? as my hon . friend know , we be go to change local authority plan guidance to raise the profile of primary care facility when planner be consider how developer contribution and fund from new housing development be allocate . he have bring this important matter to our attention many time , and I will be happy to write again on his behalf and make a formal representation ahead of the Chancellor ' s autumn statement on 22 November . this year ' s wear red day for Show Racism the Red Card be tomorrow . I can not think of a more apt day in the light of recent circumstance . will the Leader of the House join I in encourage all member and folk across the four nation of the UK to take part in this important day and reinforce this year ' s theme of " change heart , change mind , change life " ? on behalf of the whole House , I thank the hon . Lady for publicise this important day . for the benefit of Hansard , there be many nod in agreement with what she say . we should all ensure that we take part . I thank all member for their wonderful tribute to my incredible predecessor Sir David Amess . last Sunday be , of course , a sad day for Southend , and I know their comment will be appreciate by Lady Amess , the family and all Southend resident as we remember Sir David ' s incredible dedication and courage not only in campaign for city status , animal and the Music Man , but in his commitment to woman ' s health . in that vein , I invite the brilliant Southend breast cancer charity Lady McAdden to Parliament on Tuesday . Lady McAdden provide the only one - to - one , nurse - lead awareness appointment in the country , and it remind I that , with breast cancer success rate now at nearly 99 % when detect early and locally , it be shocking that 30 % of woman still do not attend their routine mammogram . will the Leader of the House congratulate Lady McAdden on its work and encourage all woman to attend their mammogram ? may we have a debate on the future of breast cancer screening ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work she be do to carry on Sir David ' s legacy , particularly with the wonderful Music Man project , with which so many member will be familiar . it go from strength to strength , and it be wonderful to see how it have develop . my hon . Friend also deserve credit for the work she have do to raise awareness of the importance of attend screening . we know that early detection hugely increase the chance of defeat cancer , which be why we have invest so much in new diagnostic centre but , of course , people need to be encourage to attend . I thank my hon . friend for the event she put on early this week . it be disappointing that prop be not allow in the Chamber , as I understand the event be on knitted bosom day , and there be knit bosom available for member to wear . it be a shame that my hon . friend be prevent from wear they in the Chamber today . I join the Leader of the House in her utter condemnation of Hamas ' s brutal attack on Israel . it be not what Hannah Arendt once call " the banality of evil " ; it be the calculation of evil . that be why it be right that we defend Israel ' s right to self - defence . like the shadow Leader of the House and colleague across the House , I be acutely concerned that 2 . 2 million Palestinians now face humanitarian disaster . the Prime Minister be right to say in his statement : " we must ensure that humanitarian support urgently reach civilian in Gaza . " — [ Official Report , 16 October 2023 ; Vol . 738 , c . 24 . ] what be the good way for we to debate the strategy next week ? it seem to many of we in this House that an urgent , negotiate cessation of hostility , bind on all side , will be require to ensure that we meet the Prime Minister ' s objective . we know that the United States and Egypt be work hard to secure that , so it would be good for we to understand how the UK Government be help to achieve that objective . I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this very important matter , and I congratulate he on his recent election as Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I repeat what I say early : it be incredibly difficult to negotiate a ceasefire with a terrorist organisation but , of course , we want to ensure that innocent civilian be protect and be give the support they need . the UK have a vital role to play in that , not just through diplomatic channel , but through the expertise that Government and our non - governmental organisation have . I be very conscious of the fact that Parliament be about to be prorogue and that Members will want to be keep inform when the House be not sit , and I shall certainly bear that in mind . he will know how to apply for a debate in the usual way and that Ministers will want to keep the House inform . More than 18 month ago , the National Trust remove a much - love and vital bridge in Stiffkey that connect the mainland to the marsh at this popular visitor spot on the North Norfolk coast . after much to - ing and fro - ing , it be agree that on the basis of safety — to ensure that people be not cut off by rise tide — it would be replace with a new bridge by the National Trust . however , the evidence for the removal of the bridge be still shroud in mystery today . despite ask , I , like resident and National Trust member , have be deny sight of the structural surveyor ' report , although we be tell that it exist . will the Leader of the House find time for a parliamentary debate on the openness and transparency of membership organisation such as the National Trust and whether an organisation design to protect heritage for the nation should be do the opposite by prohibit people from access the very space they want to enjoy ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important point . organisation such as the National Trust will be subject to particular obligation , not least those place on they by the Charity Commission . I can think of no reason why such a report should be withhold , particularly from the member of the National Trust . I will certainly write to the relevant Department to ensure that it have hear his comment today and ask that an official from that Department give my hon . friend ' s office advice about how he can rectify the situation . may we have a statement from the Transport Secretary to explain to the House the proposal that the search and rescue helicopter station in Shetland in my constituency should have its response time increase from 15 minute to one hour ? the blue - light service of town and city would never be treat like that , so why should islander be treat differently ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise what sound like a concern matter . I shall certainly make sure that the Secretary of State have hear what he have say this morning . I think this be a timely matter , so if the right hon . Gentleman keep I post , I shall ensure that the Department be in touch with his office . may I associate myself with the comment about Sir David Amess ? I have certainly be think about his family and friend this week . will the Leader of the House agree to an early debate on the serious financial situation confront local authority across the country , include Kirklees Council , which cover my constituency ? area such as mine in West Yorkshire have see deep cut in funding than other . indeed , the Prime Minister actually boast that when he be Chancellor he shift resource to place such as Tunbridge Wells , say that " we inherit a bunch of formula from the Labour party that shove all the funding into deprived urban area … that need to be undo . " if the funding formula be the same today as it be when Labour leave office , Kirklees Council would be in surplus . instead , it be have to make extremely difficult decision about the future of valuable local resource , such as Batley sport and tennis centre , Cleckheaton town hall and Claremont House care home in Heckmondwike . I hope that the Leader of the House will agree that this be a matter of urgent concern . without a fair settlement , we will be store up enormous problem for the future , which will impact on the health and wellbeing of many of my constituent and those of other hon . member across the House . first , let I say that the hon . Lady will understand more than anyone in this place the comment about Sir David Amess and those sad event . I thank the Jo Cox Foundation , one of the many legacy her sister leave , for all the work it be do on this matter and the tribute it have pay in recent day to Sir David . the hon . Lady be the second Member today to raise the grave situation at Kirklees Council , which will lead to the potential loss of much - love public service — I know that leisure service be a particularly great concern there . the Government have always maintain strong funding for local government . in time of great stress , particularly in recent year , we have increase that massively . what we have not do be allow council over the past 13 year to raise council tax by enormous sum . in the timeframe we have be in government , council have raise council tax by about 36 % , whereas the last Labour Government , over the same period , raise it by 104 % . we always have to bear it in mind that there be no such thing as government money — it be taxpayer ' money . we need to protect people , particularly those on fix income , from unlimited increase in the taxis they pay . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I have be contact in my capacity as chair of the Public and Commercial Services Union parliamentary group on behalf of low - pay , outsourced facility management staff across 10 different government site . as a result of a retendering process , I be advise that those worker will shift from Mitie to either ISS or OCS Group . that mean worker will face seven week without a wage because of change pay date . I be sure the Leader of the House will understand the impact that will have on universal credit , for example , so can we have a debate in Government time about the outsourcing of facility management worker ? in the light of prorogation , will the Leader of the House contact Cabinet Office colleague so that we can pause the arrangement and there can be a meeting with the trade union , ensure those worker be not leave in financial hardship ? the hon . Gentleman be right that we do not have a date for the next Cabinet Office question because of the prorogation of Parliament , so I will make sure that the Minister for the Cabinet Office have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . I associate myself with the remark make by the shadow Leader of the House , my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) . many constituent in Cardiff South and Penarth have express their horror and shock at the loss of innocent life in Israel and Gaza , their revulsion at Hamas , but also the importance of international law and humanitarian access and principle be uphold . we have see a shocking rise in antisemitism and Islamophobic incident in recent day and week . it be National Hate Crime Awareness Week and we hear about Show Racism the Red Card yesterday , so can we have a debate in Government time on the importance of tackle hate crime on the basis of race and religion , particularly the important work that faith community be do to respond to those issue and to increase cohesion ? we have have terrible example of these issue in the past in my own community , but the response of faith community have always be amazing . could we have a chance to praise that work and to share good practice ? I thank the hon . gentleman for add his voice to the many who have speak about their concern and about the desire to ensure all community be secure , protect and feel confident go about their daily life . he be right that we need to point to good practice and the tremendous number of organisation who be do wonderful work across community , ensure people be bring together and stand against those individual who seek to divide and spread hate . if he be to apply for a debate , I be sure it would be well attend . as we approach Remembrance Sunday , we can all agree that veteran and their family who have experience pain and loss as a result of their service in the armed force be rightly compensate . yet under current arrangement , 150 , 000 armed force veteran and their family , 12 , 000 of whom be in Scotland , find their welfare benefit be mean test as their compensation payment be treat as income . will the Leader of the House make a statement set out her support for the British Legion ' s credit their service campaign , which ask that no member of the armed force community have their compensation treat as income when undergo mean test for welfare benefit , as be already the case with civil service award ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . the UK Government take these matter extremely seriously , which be why we have compensate member of the armed force who be resident in Scotland and who be serve for the additional tax that they have to pay under the SNP Government . large part of welfare policy be devolve to the Scottish Government , but give that we be about to prorogue Parliament , I shall make sure that colleague at the Department for Work and Pensions and the Ministry of Defence have hear the hon . Lady ' s remark . the next Department for Work and Pensions question be schedule for 30 October , but defence question be yet to be schedule , so I will write to both Departments on her behalf . we have all be horrify and devastate by the Hamas attack on innocent israeli civilian and by the suffering of innocent palestinian civilian face an unfold humanitarian crisis . we urgently need the release of the israeli hostage and we need the opening of viable and sufficient humanitarian and medical relief corridor . like a number of member , I have constituent strand in Gaza . they be in a terrible situation and it can be very difficult for we to know how to get help to they . I trust that we will get regular update on the situation next week . can they include specifically any update on how we can well engage with the Government and other agency to get help for our constituent ? far to what the Leader of the House say early , will she make arrangement for regular virtual update as appropriate while we be in prorogation ? I be sorry to hear about the situation that some of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent be face . those who have work with Foreign Office consular service will know that they be incredibly diligent and work very hard to ensure that people be keep inform about thing , and also that case can be resolve . I will certainly undertake to ensure that , before Parliament be prorogue , all member of this House have very clear information about where they can get update . I be very conscious that some member may not yet be aware if a constituent be in this situation , and we want to ensure that that constituent can get help and assistance immediately it be need . I undertake that that will happen , and I have already have a number of conversation with colleague in Government about how we can ensure that that be do . I wish to return to the infected blood scandal and the reality that victim be still wait for compensation despite have be infect as long ago as the 1970 and 1980 . sadly , it be also estimate that every four day a victim die without receive justice . the Scottish Government have set up the scottish infect blood scheme . Ireland have be pay out since 1995 . give the fact that there be further delay in the infected blood inquiry , as other member have raise , can the Leader of the House confirm that the Government will do the right thing and bring forward a compensation framework before there be a risk of a general election kicking everything even far into the long grass ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this important matter . I just want to make sure that people be not misunderstand what he have say . the scheme that he mention be not compensation scheme . I be the Paymaster General who bring in parity across the four nation for support scheme , so this be not compensation for the injustice that people have suffer ; it be ongoing support for what they need . there be now parity across the four nation , and I be very pleased that we secure an agreement that , if there be any change to support scheme , they be do together with that parity across the four nation of the United Kingdom — that be a very important principle . what we also want to ensure happen be that people be compensate for the layer upon layer of injustice that they have suffer . I refer the hon . gentleman to the answer that I give a moment ago to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who chair the all - party group on Haemophilia and Contaminated blood , and I will make sure that the Paymaster General have hear that this House would like an update . will the Leader of the House ask ministerial colleague to report to the House on breach of international law during the war in Gaza ? target , displacement and collective punishment of civilian be war crime whoever commit they . this country have a proud record of uphold international law and bring to justice those who break it . should we not continue to do that whether in Gaza , Ukraine or other conflict ? I take these matter very seriously . indeed , when I be International Development Secretary it be because of the regard that nation have for international humanitarian law that I be unable to unblock Hodeidah port and get aid into Yemen . these be very important principle and we must ensure that they be uphold . we as a nation must ensure that people understand that we place they at the heart of everything that we do . what I would say to the hon . Gentleman , though , be that we need to be lead by the fact in this case , and say that Israel be collectively punish Palestinians be quite wrong . in an early answer I give quite detailed information about the framework that israeli defence force adhere to and the training that they undergo . he can look up previous conflict and information that have be put out about how the israeli defence force conduct themselves , the care that be take when undergo target board and the scrutiny that be apply to that , and the legal framework cover those thing . Hamas do not have the equivalent , and it be important that the language that we use in this place be correct and factual . there be extremely serious consequence in this country and across the middle east region of promote information that be not correct . that be incredibly important . I know that the House of Commons Library will take its responsibility seriously . this be a legitimate action that Israel be take to defend its own security and defeat a terrorist organisation . we and other nation have stress that that must be do accord to international law and the principle that I set out early . the hon . Member have the Government ' s assurance that we will not waver from that view . over the recess , I meet representative of Dementia UK , a fantastic charity that be provide research , support and much need hope for people suffer from this dreadful condition . it be currently work to provide more of its specialist admiral nurse in primary care setting , include in my city of Edinburgh , where there be 8 , 500 people currently cope with dementia . I be unable to put the question directly at question this week , but could we please have a statement on the progress that the Government be make on dementia care under the major condition strategy and their Dame Barbara Windsor mission , particularly with an emphasis on training and support for specialist dementia nurse ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that incredibly important point and highlight the work that that organisation do on research and , critically , care . she will know that it have be a priority for the Government under successive administration to ensure that we be have the current breakthrough on new drug , with the second drug that be able to combat this terrible disease , and that we have the good possible care across the UK . I shall ensure that the Secretary of State have hear of her desire to have an update on these very important mission . my constituent Callum from Coatbridge be a firefighter base in a station on the outskirt of Glasgow . with the support of his watch commander , he recently apply to the Government ' s access to work scheme for the additional support that he be rightly entitle to , but after month of wait he have still hear nothing . I be sure that the Leader of the House , like I , support the aim of the access to work scheme to help people to remain in the workplace , so can we have a debate on the Floor of the House to ensure that people who be desperate to work be not be impact once again by the intransigence of the Government ? I be sorry to hear about the difficulty that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent have have in access the scheme . the hon . Gentleman will know that through the health and work plan , of which access to work be a large part , we have manage to get an additional 1 million people with disability into work . it have be a priority for the Government . if the Scottish Government be concern that we be not move fast enough , they could have take up the offer of administer welfare and disability benefit and scheme themselves when that be offer by the UK Government , but they do not . the access to work scheme be vital . if he give I the correspondence that he have have with the Department and the detail of the case , I will follow it up this afternoon , because his constituent need to get access to that money , and I will do everything that I can to help he to ensure that that happen . the three earthquake in Afghanistan last week kill at least 2 , 445 people and leave thousand of family homeless . despite that , the situation have receive little international attention , but with the ongoing war in Ukraine and the conflict and murder in Israel , we understand why . we also know that humanitarian aid often do not reach minority or rural community , particularly in Afghanistan . the Leader of the House always respond positively — we all appreciate that — so will she ask the relevant Minister to highlight the UK response to the disaster and the step take to ensure that humanitarian aid reach all those in need , who be not forget by we in this House ? on the behalf of the whole House , I thank the hon . gentleman for shine a spotlight on the plight of individual who may not have receive either medium coverage or debate in this place . he enable we to get on record the fact that just because that have not happen , do not mean they be not at the forefront of our mind . what have happen in Afghanistan be a terrible tragedy , and I know that the Development Minister have be focus on ensure that we do all we can to alleviate suffering . it have be one of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s large bilateral aid programme this financial year and will remain so , I think , for some time . I will ensure that the Minister be alive to the fact that this House would appreciate an update , and if that can not happen on the Floor of the House due to Parliament be prorogue , I shall ensure that the Commons Library have the update information . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . unfortunately , the Chair of the Liaison Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , be not able to be here , nor be the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , who be on a Select Committee visit to Canada . the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee publish a report on the private rented sector , with a reply expect by April this year . the Secretary of State promise that that reply would be with we before the Second reading of the Renters ( Reform ) Bill . the Leader of the House have obviously announce the business for Monday , which include that Second Reading , but we still have not have any reply from the Government to the Select Committee ' s recommendation , include proposal for change to the Bill . that will not help the House when it be consider the second Reading . I thank the hon . gentleman for give I notice of his point of order , but if question relate to business , they should be raise during business question , because it be not fair on the Leader of the House if people prolong business question with point of order . I believe that the Leader of the House be happy to respond , but I want to make it clear that the hon . Gentleman perhaps should have raise this matter during business question itself . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say on behalf of his colleague , and I will make sure that it be hear by the Department . I will follow that up this afternoon . I thank the Leader of the House for respond to the point of order , and we will now move on . Backbench Business Birth Trauma I beg to move , that this House note that many woman across the UK experience birth trauma ; and call on the Government to take step to support woman experience birth trauma . I be honour to lead the first debate in the history of the UK Parliament on birth trauma , which coincide with Baby Loss Awareness Week . today , I be call on the Government to do more to help mother who have suffer birth trauma . I start by thank the many brave woman from across the UK who contact I , after I share my own story , to share their personal experience of birth trauma ahead of today ' s debate . I have be overwhelm by the response to my new campaign on this issue . I be take the time to read and respond to every single one of you , and review they have be a harrowing experience . thank you for be so courageous in share your story with I . you be the reason I be here today , to be your advocate in Parliament . I know that a number of mum be here to watch the debate today , and I welcome they to the House . I thank a number of organisation , include the Birth Trauma Association and MASIC , for all their support . my campaign begin several month ago , when , follow my return from maternity leave , I decide to share my own story of birth trauma . this be the first time I have ever speak about it in Parliament , and it be probably the most personal speech I will ever give as an MP . last year , I have a very traumatic birth at my local hospital in Staffordshire . I have expect to have that first hour with my beautiful daughter , and imagine she magically crawl up my chest to start breastfeed . instead , after 40 difficult hour of labour , I begin bleed very heavily after delivery . I be separate from my baby and rush into the emergency room for surgery . I remember the trolley bump into the wall , the medical staff take I into theatre , and be slide on to the operating table . I spend over two hour awake , without a general anaesthetic . I could hear they talk about I , and obviously it be not look good . it be the most terrifying experience of my life . I thank my hon . friend for address what be just about the most difficult subject for any woman to have to cover . I absolutely and heartily applaud her determination to raise the issue so that other mum who have have such a terrible experience can also take some comfort from it . she be do an immensely brave thing and have the support of Members right across the House . I thank she . I thank my right hon . friend for her intervention and for her excellent work on the start for life programme to ensure that child under five get the help that they need . it be the most terrifying experience of my life — I genuinely think that I be go to die — so I put on the record my immense thank to the fantastic NHS team at Royal Stoke University Hospital , who carry out my surgery , and to the midwife who be with I during labour . I thank in particular my surgeon Nitish , my midwive Michelle and Stacey , my health visitor Chris , my mental health advocate Judith , and Nicole at the perineal clinic . however , the entire experience have also completely open my eye to challenge in post - natal care in this country . I remember be wheel into the recovery ward after surgery , where I encounter a nurse who have not read her note and assume that I have have a c - section . I be then move to a side room , where I be hook up to a catheter and a drip , and be lie in bed next to my baby , who be scream in her cot . I could not pick she up . I press the call button for help , and a lady come in and say , " not my baby ; not my problem , " and leave I there . that be unacceptable behaviour , especially when you be extremely vulnerable . I have subsequently meet the hospital trust chief executive and the chief nurse , and I appreciate their apology and commitment to provide quality , safe care to woman in Stafford go forward . I spend nearly a week in hospital . one of my main reflection be the lack of aftercare for mother . there be so much focus on the baby that we sometimes seem to forget that the mum have have a traumatic experience and need care , too . I have never hear of birth injury before . I later discover that during childbirth I have suffer from what be know as a third - degree tear , when the baby stretch the vagina and rip the muscle in the back passage call the anal sphincter , which it be vital to repair . it be important to say that , although many woman will have no issue in childbirth , some will , like I , be unlucky and have a third or fourth - degree tear , which occur in about three in 100 vaginal birth . I now know that around 20 , 000 woman a year in the UK suffer from birth injury . the consequence of an untreated obstetric tear can include urinary and faecal incontinence , as well as ongoing pain , so it be clear that we must do more to help those woman . on my return from maternity leave , I contact those at the Birth Trauma Association , who be here with we today , and ask they to bring some mum to visit I in Parliament . I discover that there be huge disparity across the UK in care for mother who have experience birth trauma . I be genuinely shock at some of the story those mum share with I . for example , Gill Castle suffer from a fourth - degree tear and now have a stoma bag , and she have to give up her job as a police officer . she have since become an amazing campaigner on birth injury , and I congratulate she on just become the first person with a stoma bag to solo swim the english channel . it be so upsetting to hear their story follow that meeting , include sad example of baby who have die and example of medical negligence . that be why I decide to launch a new all - party parliamentary group on birth trauma with my Labour co - chair , the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) , who I be delighted be here today support the debate . our APPG be cross - party , and we be so pleased that many colleague from across the House have join we to provide support . I welcome NHS England ' s commitment to address these issue and the fact that it have now set out a three - year delivery plan for maternity and neonatal service , publish in March , but it be clear that we still need to do more to improve post - natal care . birth trauma be cause by traumatic event or complication in birth . it be a term that can apply to those who experience symptom of psychological distress after childbirth or physical injury sustain during delivery . those can include surgical procedure such as a sudden emergency require a caesarean section or a long and very painful labour in a severe state of pain for many hour . I thank the hon . Lady for her courage in share her personal story with everyone in the Chamber and those far afield . one of my staff member have an emergency c - section . it start before she be under anaesthetic , and she be unaware it be come . the trauma of it be very real , and it be clear that she should have be offer help to come to term with it . she leave hospital with a beautiful baby , yes , but she also leave with a scar and a memory of traumatic event that she could not process because she do not know what be happen , and it all come upon she very quickly . do the hon . Lady agree that in such scenario , counselling and help should be offer at the beginning and should be accessible for all ? I thank the hon . member , and I absolutely agree . if he will bear with I for a few more minute , I will get on to that later in my speech . I be talk about example of birth trauma , which can also include a premature or very ill baby , have a difficult forceps birth , or a post - partum haemorrhage with severe loss of blood . woman have tell I that they feel fearful that they or their baby might die . the traumatic event can be exacerbate by unkind or even neglectful care , or when woman who feel physically or emotionally damage after a traumatic birth be expect to look after their baby without any help . research show that 4 % to 5 % of woman will develop post - traumatic stress disorder after birth , which translate into about 30 , 000 woman a year in the UK . the diagnosis of ptsd do not just relate to mother but can also include father who have be present at their partner ' s birth . many of they have tell I that they be keep in the dark about what be happen to their partner and baby . symptom of PTSD can include flashback or nightmare ; negative alteration in mood such as guilt , sadness or self - blame ; and a feeling of be constantly anxious and on high alert . birth trauma be obviously compound by the stress of look after a newborn baby , include month of sleep deprivation . mother have write to I to say that medical procedure that remind they of birth , such as a cervical smear test , can induce feeling of terror . other become so fearful of their baby come to harm that they refuse to leave the house or let anyone else hold their baby . in many case , their relationship with their partner have deteriorate because the woman have become so distressed . woman have tell I that they find it impossible to return to work due to flashback or because they have physical injury that make it impossible to do their job . psychological , as well as physical , birth trauma also occur when the mother be separate from her baby immediately after birth , which be what happen to I , and when they be poorly treat by healthcare professional . I be extremely lucky that I be treat by a specialist perinatal mental health team call the Lotus Service in Staffordshire , which include trauma - focus cognitive behavioural therapy and eye movement desensitisation and reprocessing , know as EMDR , in addition to attend a specialist perineal clinic for my tear . I welcome the fact that NHS England be set up regional perinatal mental health service , but I be afraid that it be still patchy , and many woman still face long waiting list for therapy . in 2014 , few than 15 % of locality provide specialist perinatal mental health service for woman with complex or severe condition at the full level recommend by National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guidance , and I be afraid to say that 40 % provide no service at all . clearly , we must end the postcode lottery that mother in the UK currently face . it be unacceptable to I that a mother can receive a different level of care just because of where she live , so today I call on the Government to ensure that perinatal mental health service be available to all mum across the UK . I turn now to post - partum psychosis , which be a serious mental health illness that can affect mother after they have have their baby . tragically , it affect around one in 500 mother after give birth . post - partum psychosis be very different from what be sometimes call the baby blue , which be more about mild mood change post - birth : this be a serious mental illness that be treat as a medical emergency . symptom can range from hallucination to manic mood and delusion , and it can sometimes take up to a year to recover . in my constituency of Stafford , we be privileged to have an amazing parent and baby unit at St George ' s Hospital , which I recently visit . it be a specialist facility that aim to provide in - patient mental health service for woman experience psychological and emotional difficulty specifically relate to the latter stage of childbirth and early motherhood . next , I want to highlight the recent report into maternity care at Morecambe Bay , Shrewsbury and Telford , East Kent and Nottingham , which have all identify problem in birth that arise from inadequate care . sadly , those report identify problem such as understaffing , poor team work or a culture of blame , which all contribute to the very sad and avoidable death and injury of mother and baby . we also know that a difficult birth be much less likely to lead to a woman develop trauma symptom if the staff treat she with kindness and dignity , make sure that consent be obtain for procedure , respect her wish for pain relief , and display sympathy when she be clearly distressed . I have spend the past few month meet with expert in the field , include the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists , the Birth Trauma Association , the MASIC Foundation and the Maternal Mental Health Alliance . follow this , I partner with Mumsnet — the online forum for mother — to conduct a national birth trauma survey , give the lack of datum . our survey receive 1 , 042 response . the key result show that 53 % experience physical trauma ; 71 % experience psychological or emotional trauma ; 72 % say that it take more than a year to resolve ; 84 % who experience tear say that they do not receive information about birth injury ahead of time ; and 32 % experienced note not be pass on between shift . these result be shocking , and we share they recently at our first meeting of the all - party parliamentary group on birth trauma . I be very grateful that Dr Ranee Thakar , president of the royal college , come to that meeting to talk to we about her initiative , include on obstetric anal sphincter injury — know as OASI — which , as I have already mention from my personal experience , be third and fourth - degree tear . long - term consequence can include chronic pain , sexual dysfunction , and difficulty or inability to control the bladder , bowel or passing of wind , and can significantly affect mental health and people ' s ability to carry out everyday activity . we need to break the taboo by talk about this , and that be what I be try to do today . childbirth have be identify as a key risk factor for the development of pelvic floor dysfunction later in life , with one in 12 woman have a pelvic organ prolapse . to reduce the likelihood of birth injury , UK expert lead by the royal college create the OASI care bundle , which have already be roll out in 19 new maternity unit since 2019 . that care bundle have be significant in reduce birth injury by 20 % , so today I call on the Government to roll it out across NHS England to all hospital trust . I also put on record my thank to Mr Speaker for extend my proxy vote after my maternity leave , in order for I to recover from my own birth injury . this new system of remote voting will make a huge difference to mps who be new mother or have have to undergo major surgery , as I do . sadly , ahead of today ' s debate I have be inundate with hundred of email and letter from mother who have experience birth trauma . I thank each of those , and in some case the partner , who have take the time to write . I know how difficult and painful it be to talk about this . with their consent , I will briefly share some story that I believe powerfully highlight the issue . one mother , who give birth in Leicester General Hospital , write : " I deliver my son naturally and without intervention , but I do suffer a third - degree tear . this wasn ' t really explain to I at the time , other than to tell I that I need stitch . it be only afterwards , when I receive a copy of the consent form , that I realise exactly what the surgery have be for . " another mother write : " Labour be progress well , then I start to … tear , so an episiotomy be perform . but I have tear all the way to the back , I be take into theatre for repair … which take nearly 2 hour . I lose about 1 litre of blood … currently I experience pain and bleeding after bowel movement , pain during sex " and , as we can imagine , a " smear test several month ago be agonising " . she say she have be " experience nightmare , awful intrusive thought and panic attack , all concern leave or be separate from my son " , and she be refer to her gp for post - traumatic stress disorder . a mum call Stacy say : " I be tell I ' d either need forceps or a c section so would be take to theatre . I couldn ' t read the form I be so out of it and I remember my signature slide down the page " . another write : " I suffer birth trauma , feeding issue , bad medical advice , poor mental advice , long term sleep deprivation " , and even PTSD be trigger in her husband . sadly , there have also be example of inequality in treatment among ethnic minority group . one mother explain that " the nurse do not spot my haemorrhage due to the colour of my skin . there need to be more diversity training , as the medical professional fail to recognise symptom in non - white patient " . finally , an NHS doctor who serve as an obstetrician write to I to say : " occasionally it be dad who be traumatise . watch your partner experience a major obstetric haemorrhage and literally be leave hold the baby whilst she be be wheel away from you into the operate theatre be … a distressing experience and as time go by the dad be sometimes leave wonder if they might be bring up the baby as a single parent . everyone be busy with their wife in theatre and no one come to speak to they for quite some time " . unfortunately , none of these be isolate incidence — they occur all too frequently — so the Government must take action to improve the experience of woman who have traumatic birth . I welcome the fact that the Department of Health and Social Care publish its 10 - year woman ' s health strategy for England last year . I also welcome the appointment of Professor Dame Lesley Regan as the Government ' s first ever woman ' s health ambassador for England , and I look forward to meet she in a few week ' time . however , on review the Government ' s strategy , I be surprised to find the mention of birth trauma only once in the entire document , which be in the context of a call for evidence for the public inquiry . give that the public in their response to the Government ' s strategy include a request for birth trauma , it be now essential that this be deliver in any future update to the woman ' s health strategy . so today I be call on the Government to add birth trauma to the woman ' s health strategy in a meaningful way . lastly , I want to touch on staffing . we know that our brilliant NHS workforce be essential to ensure safe and more equitable maternity service . this have be recognise in both the Ockenden and the East Kent report . we know that safe staffing level be essential to the provision of safe maternity care , and we also know that workforce recruitment remain a priority concern . I note that NHS England ' s long - term workforce plan have set out commitment to support our maternity and neonatal workforce , but unfortunately staff gap remain , with an 11 % vacancy rate . in conclusion , it be so clear to I that so much more need to be do to support woman who experience traumatic birth . today I call on the Government to add birth trauma to the woman ' s health strategy ; recruit more midwife ; ensure perinatal mental health service be available across the UK ; provide appropriate and mandatory training for midwife with a focus on both mental and physical health ; ensure that the post - natal six - week check with their gp be provide to all mother , and will include separate question on both the mother ' s physical health and her mental health in relation to the baby ; improve our continuity of care so there be well communication between secondary and primary health care , include explicit pathway for woman in need of support ; provide post - birth service nationally , such as birth reflection , to give mother a safe space to speak about their experience in childbirth ; roll out the obstetric anal sphincter injury care bundle to all hospital trust in England to reduce the risk of injury in childbirth ; provide well support for partner and father ; and , finally , have well education for woman on their birth choice and on risk in order to ensure informed consent . let I thank all the birth trauma organisation and the mother who have contribute to this campaign . I really hope that the Government will listen to my plea today , and ensure that woman who suffer from birth trauma will now receive additional support . I congratulate the hon . Lady on her opening speech , which I be sure be very difficult to make but be extremely brave . I will certainly pass on her thank to Mr Speaker regard her proxy vote . first , I wish to thank my lovely hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) for secure this debate , for set up the all - party parliamentary group for birth trauma , for her brilliant speech and bravery , and for generally allow I to ride chaotically on her incredibly organise coattail . what be birth trauma ? the Birth Trauma Association describe it as " a broad term apply to those who experience symptom of psychological distress after childbirth . it include those whose symptom qualify for a diagnosis of post - traumatic stress disorder . " that term certainly apply to the many woman who take part in our recent Mumsnet birth trauma survey , which include some statistic that should be of concern to all health professional , and some shocking story of woman ' s experience . it also certainly apply to those woman in east Kent whose experience contribute to the damn Kirkup review , which be release a year ago in October 2022 . woman who have every right to expect safe and professional care during their pregnancy and labour be badly let down by our health trust , often with life - change consequence . the poor , sub - standard maternity care receive by many family over an 11 - year period make for extremely harrowing reading , and I take this opportunity to thank Dr Kirkup and his team for their painstaking work , and for their sensitive and caring approach to the woman and family over the course of their investigation . I know that they continue to make themselves available to anyone who may need they , which be in stark contrast to the scandalous way in which those family be often treat at the height of their trauma , and as they struggle to come to term with what they have be through . no matter what analysis of each individual case of birth trauma or the finding of report conclude , one basic requirement should be unchanged in the hospital experience of every single patient : care . kindness , good manner , information , listen to woman — those be not thing that should be alter or affect in any way by medical circumstance or emergency . be such thing not in fact even more vital when a panicked or distressed family be face with a traumatic situation ? the way that my hon . friend be speak to after her unexpectedly difficult birth — I should not need to stand in this place and explain that it be unacceptable . for my constituent in East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust , which be chronically short - staffed and plague by low morale and a lack of equipment , those factor definitely contribute to some of those terrible experience . basic patient care standard should always apply , and essential staff , no matter how lowly their place in the chain of command , must always be afford respect by those in authority so that they feel support and , crucially , be able to raise concern without the real fear of repercussion . during the Kirkup inquiry , much of my team ' s work be speak to staff who wish to be contributor but be extremely afraid of speak out . one midwife go to great length to remain anonymous , even buy a burner phone in order to call I in my office . she be very upset and nervous but help I a great deal by provide background information . why should a whistle - blower have to be so afraid when her testimony could help to improve standard and practice in our NHS ? the Minister recently attend a discussion with some of the family and mother who contribute to the Kirkup review in my constituency . I know they feel that she listen and have direct contact , which be so important to they . their experience should make every Member here , and every member of East Kent Hospitals University Foundation Trust , determine to improve every aspect of maternal care in our region . in his " read the signal " report , the overriding and most important point that Dr Kirkup stress be simply , " listen to woman . " yet those I be still in contact with , although grateful for the acknowledgement and involvement of the Minister and our trust ' s new ceo , Tracey Fletcher , still do not yet have faith that service have improve dramatically . whenever family or my staff member use maternity service in East Kent , I tell they to ensure that their relationship to their MP be mention . that should not be something I have to do in order to feel that they might be safe and look after . I want to make time to read out direct comment from some of the mother and family involve in that inquiry , and especially from my former constituent , Helen Gittos . I thank she for her tenacity , her courage , and for continue to raise issue with I on behalf of those affect . I will end by read out Helen ' s thought , email to I late last night , as I think that her voice in this debate be far more important than mine . she say : " some of the strong comment tonight have come from those family who be care for very disabled child . it be Amie Taylor who say this , ' personally , I would love they to understand that this have have a profound effect on we all in more way than seem to have be acknowledge by the Trust , or maybe even the report , from somebody who have a baby with a brain injury follow sub - standard care . we be face with ongoing medical issue and the strain mentally , physically , emotionally , financially , and what may be the other side of this , hasn ' t be acknowledge . the impact this have have on our career , family dynamic , social life — every element of our life be affect . ptsd , anxiety , depression . I be pretty sure all the family have experience in one degree or another of this . ' " my constituent , Tracie Reynolds , lose her daughter Trinity in New Cross Hospital in Wolverhampton 20 year ago , and she have be campaign on maternity service and indeed have meet the Minister . let I put on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) and the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) for bring forward this debate . I know so many mother who have struggle , and I want to place on record the thank of my constituent , Tracie , in memory of Trinity and all the baby who sadly be not here . my hon . friend and the hon . Lady have do an immense service to so many people by bring forward this debate . I thank the hon . Lady very much . Helen go on to say : " staff in the Trust and woman with very recent experience say that there have be no real change . one woman say on the Facebook Support Group tonight ' have have my 6th baby at William Harvey Hospital this August I can say very little have change 1 year on ' . what we have see so far be action plan but not action — exactly the kind of checklist , tick - box exercise Bill Kirkup say doesn ' t work . I and other do not think the core message of read the Signals have be understand — let alone act upon . clinical leadership be absent . new Head of Midwifery and her Deputy seem excellent but the doctor be just not present — they be not write the action plan , not attend the read the Signals Oversight Group meeting , just really absent . how can the Government say that they accept the finding of the report when NHS Resolution — who act on their behalf — be not accept the finding ? " the Minister and I hear that when we speak directly with those family . Helen continue : " how can the Trust say that they be concerned about patient safety when lawyer act on their behalf continue to behave appallingly at inquest ? in the case of Archie Batten they try to argue he be stillborn and therefore there should be no inquest . in the case of Maya Siek in September , they argue there be no need for it to be an article 2 inquest . " that come up time and again , as the Minister know . those woman want the law to be change so that stillborn birth have to have an inquest . Helen say : " one family involve in this say on the Facebook group tonight : ' personally , I would love they to understand that this have have a profound effect on we all in more way than seem to have be acknowledge by the Trust , or maybe even the report " . I early mention that her child have a brain injury . Helen continue : " another simply say this : ' this last year have cause so much turmoil for so many I hope that come out somewhere . ' I think that really capture the experience of so many people involve — and that turmoil have be partly because people ' s experience of engagement with the Trust continue to be so problematic . but I think the Kirkup report provide we with a plan . and that rather than get side - track into an expensive , time - consume public enquiry , we should all put our collective effort into enact its recommendation . if we do , thing would get well . " I thank the House for its indulgence ; this be a really upsetting debate . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) on how she introduce this debate and her bravery and courage in articulate her own case and also those of many other in the Chamber today and watch at home . my hon . friend mention some of the figure that come out of the Mumsnet survey into birth trauma , and one of the most stark for I be that 79 % of woman have experience birth trauma . at what should be and often be the happy time in our life as parent , to go through that trauma be unacceptable . for so many to do that be incredible . another issue that I think be important be the number who feel they be not listen to , which come up time and time again . one say : " I know 100 % I be not listen to , because my husband be there beg for they to listen , and he be refuse point - blank and tell to go away , because I be just ' freak out because I be hormonal and pregnant ' . " that kind of care be unacceptable . the fact that so many woman at that vulnerable stage feel that they be not listen to be shameful . I be particularly remind of that when I see and hear the spontaneous applause and ovation follow my hon . friend ' s speech . I now feel that the woman in the Gallery and the mum be be listen to . they be be listen to in our Chamber today . it be a shame that this be the first time this matter have be debate in our Parliament , but the work of my hon . friend and the hon . member for Canterbury together across party have ensure we can have a debate today . that mean , I hope , that more and more woman will feel listened to on this important subject . I will speak about birth trauma from a local constituency point of view and in the context of the downgrading of our maternity hospital at Dr Gray ' s in Elgin . I have raise it many time . it be certainly not the level of trauma that my hon . friend the Member for Stafford have experience and articulate , but it be a trauma that too many of my constituent go through . I will articulate some of their case . in 2018 , Dr Gray ' s maternity unit be give a temporary 12 - month downgrade . here we be in October 2023 , and I be still as the MP for Moray raise concern that we do not have a full consultant - lead maternity unit back up and run . it mean that any woman who be not on a green pathway have to travel to either Aberdeen or Inverness in the most try of circumstance to give birth . I will briefly mention our own experience . we have two lovely boy : Alistair and James . Alistair be bear in Dr Gray ' s . he be on a green pathway and everything be fine . the care at Dr Gray ' s be exceptional . our second son , James , be bear in 2021 , and he and my wife be on a green pathway right up until the moment she go into labour . we go in to see the midwife in Elgin just as the labour be start , and she just be not comfortable ; there be something I pick up , and I be not be tell everything . they just be not 100 % happy , so they say , " go up to Dr Gray ' s and just see how thing be progress . " I know if anything go wrong , we would be go to Aberdeen , because I have be deal with far too many of these case as the MP . I always feel that , luckily , I would not experience that , because Krystle have be on the green pathway with both Alistair and James . thing clearly be not right , and we be tell at one point that James ' s heart rate be dip . as soon as you hear that as a parent , you start to worry . I be not medically train , but when tell that the heart rate of a baby who be about to be bear be dip , and that there be worry about contraction , parent immediately start to worry . we be reassure by the team in Dr Gray ' s , but then we be tell that we would have to transfer , which be my nightmare . I have be raise question about this issue in Holyrood with Scottish Government Ministers , who respond very well , and I have raise it here . the journey from Elgin to Aberdeen be 70 mile on a not particularly good road . I remember be tell that we would do an emergency transfer : Krystle would be put in an ambulance and I would go in the car through to Aberdeen . I do not get particularly emotional , but that walk with my wife on a trolley from the maternity suite in Dr Gray ' s , where I hope our second son would be bear , through the hospital to an ambulance be one of the bad I have ever experience in my life , because I know those be the last few minute I would be with my wife before she be put in the back of an ambulance to travel separately from I to Aberdeen . she get strap in . I can not imagine what it be like have contraction strap on your back in the back of an ambulance , face a 90 - minute journey through to a hospital to give birth , know that the child inside have problem with a dip heart rate . but I have to leave she ; I could not be with she at her most vulnerable time . she be put in the back of the ambulance , and I be tell to go straight away , because the ambulance obviously have blue light and could get to Aberdeen far quick than I . I leave with the door close , get in the car and I keep look in my rear - view mirror , think , " where ' s the ambulance ? " I pass Lhanbryde , Mosstodloch and Fochabers and there be still no ambulance . then it start to hit I , " what if they have to pull over ? what if something have go wrong in the back of the ambulance ? " we be warn about that , and I have be raise that on behalf of constituent . the ambulance never come . I be go up the Dramlachs between Fochabers and Keith , and I suddenly see the blue light in my rear - view mirror , and I have never be happy in my life , because I know at least she be still progress through to Aberdeen . to cut the story short , we get to Aberdeen . I could not find the maternity suite . it be a big hospital . Dr Gray ' s be easy to navigate ; Aberdeen be not . our son be bear safely and healthily , but that be a journey that no mother in labour should ever have to make , and no father or family member should have to follow the ambulance . my hon . Friend say that often father be keep in the dark . I have never feel more in the dark than during my 90 - minute drive to Aberdeen on my own , worried about what would happen to my wife and child . this have be go on for far too long . a temporary downgrade for 12 month be bad enough ; for it still to be happen in 2023 be shameful and unacceptable , and I will always stand up in this place and at Holyrood to call for Dr Gray ' s to have a full consultant - lead maternity unit . the last case I want to articulate be that of another constituent who give birth this year . I will read out her birth story , because it go to the heart of birth trauma . there be element around surgery and what my hon . friend so bravely articulate that be unacceptable , but the birth trauma in this case be equally unacceptable and have have a long - term impact on my constituent . she write on the local Facebook page for the campaign group , keep MUM , which do outstanding work . it be the group that get the maternity unit establish at Dr Gray ' s many decade ago . Marj Adams lead that campaign , and she be now , with her daughter , lead the Keep MUM campaign to get it reinstate . it have an excellent Facebook page that share these story . the mum say : " I be lucky enough to have my first baby at Dr Gray ' s in 2020 , two year after the unit be downgrade . although the fear of transfer be high at all time , the actual experience of be able to labour at home for as long as possible and make my way into the hospital when I feel ready which be five minute ' away from my house be amazing . I have my second baby in 2023 and , due to last minute complication , I be tell I have to give birth in Aberdeen . on the morning that my contraction start , I phone Dr Gray ' s and be advise to make my way through to Aberdeen asap as it be my second pregnancy and , because of this , they wouldn ' t turn I away . we drive through , I be contract the whole way there , which be horrible . when I arrive at Aberdeen and be examine in triage , I be tell I be only 2 cm so would need to go home as ' woman labour the good at home ' . I explain that I be from Elgin and this wasn ' t possible as it ' s a 4 - hour round trip and this be my second pregnancy and I progress quickly with my first pregnancy . they then advise that we would need to book a hotel as we couldn ' t stay at the hospital as they don ' t have space . " so a mum in labour who have be tell by Dr Gray ' s to go to Aberdeen and that she would not be turn away , be be turn away . she continue : " so we frantically try to find a room to book and manage to get one just down the road from the hospital , but check - in for the room wasn ' t until 3 pm , and by this point it be only 12 pm . we ask if we could stay a few more hour at the hospital and we be tell ' no ' . I be then contract heavily in the hotel car park , my water have go and be leak everywhere and I be cry my eye out feel so scared and uncomfortable . I phone the hospital back around 2 pm and explain that the contraction be a lot strong and close together and ask if I could come back in , but they say they didn ' t have space for I so I could only come back in at 3 pm . so I wait for another hour and , by the time I get to triage and be examine , I be 7 - 8 cm . my baby be bear 30 minute later . " the mum finish by say : " the whole experience be awful and feel inhumane . I have several panic attack throughout and afterwards and I still feel panicked when I think about it now . " she could not give birth close to home as she wish . she have to drive through a horrendous journey from Moray to Aberdeen . she be turn away by a hospital . her water break in a hotel car park where she be seek refuge before she go into labour , and her baby be bear just 30 minute after finally be admit to the hospital . the hospital and NHS Grampian have rightly apologise for the appalling way in which they treat my constituent , this mother . the trauma that she go through and the fact that it still affect she show that today ' s debate be important ; in it , we can articulate in this place the concern of our constituent . I have be proud to be part of the debate and to listen to outstanding contribution from colleague . I hope that mum here in Westminster and watch from home feel reassure that their parliamentarian across the House will stand up for they to ensure that these birth trauma can be minimise and hopefully be completely rule out in future . it should and must always be the happy time of our life to bring new people into this world . it be a shame that too many people continue to suffer from birth trauma . let we do everything we can to reduce it . I thank the hon . member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) and for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) for bring forward the debate . the hon . member for Stafford give an excellent speech ; it be brave but also extremely thorough . give that a similar debate will follow shortly , I will restrict my comment to one specific area : my experience of have a baby . that be nearly 15 year ago , which be quite a long time ago , and I be pleased to report that my baby be now a healthy young man who be already significantly big than I . but my experience of his birth , and specifically the attitude to the use of a caesarean section both generally in society and in the medical profession cause I concern . I be induce at 12 day overdue at about 9 on a Friday morning , and my baby be deliver by emergency caesarean just before 10 on Saturday night , which I think we can all appreciate be quite a long time later . various professional look after I during that time . they be invariably caring , humorous and competent . they have a good laugh at my birth plan and chuck it away and , when they have give up all hope of what they describe as a " natural delivery " , I be wheel across the corridor to a theatre and have the necessary procedure . that all go very well . I be very tired but happy and luckily my baby be make his view on the situation know at enormous volume . I be send home after just a few day ' stay in hospital . it be after I get home that thing start to feel different for I . People keep express sympathy . the final straw be when a health visitor ask if I feel like a failure for have have a c - section . the answer really be , " not until somebody suggest that maybe I should . " the medical evidence be clear that , if a vaginal delivery be possible , it be usually a superior option . I be not here to deny that , but I do think that we should take a look at attitude to woman who have have or need a c - section because that be medically the good option for they . I have a degree in history and choose to specialise where possible in medieval and early modern social and economic issue . I hope to God that my in - depth knowledge of the societal impact of the bubonic plague be never useful to I , but after my baby be bear I find myself reflect on historian ' good estimate of maternal and baby death in that era . it be possible that one in 10 pregnancy end in the death of the mother , and the proportion of baby who die in those early day be obviously far high . at the time , I find the reflection that , even 200 year ago , probably neither I nor my son would have survive extremely sobering and shocking . surely , give the amazing advance in modern medicine , we should celebrate that that be a statistic firmly consigned to history . surely the only important objective when you arrive at hospital in excited anticipation of the arrival of your baby be that both you and your baby leave that hospital in a healthy state . I be afraid that the expectation of pregnant woman be great than that — that real woman be expect not to rely on medical advance that have save million of life over the last couple of hundred year but to have their baby without pain relief and without intervention , if possible without make too much noise — and definitely enjoy an empower moment . obviously that be total garbage : you be at your most vulnerable , both physically and emotionally , and then after what be potentially a traumatic and painful experience , you start the endurance test of care for your new - bear baby on zero hour ' sleep for probably the next four or five month . personally , have fail at be an earth mother , I find the first year of motherhood very difficult . I be sleep deprive and attempt to feed the world ' s hungry baby — this be not the fairy tale that I have imagine at all — but I be do well than some of my friend . one friend have have what be describe as a " natural " delivery . her baby arrive six week before mine , but the consultant apparently do not like c - section . her baby be deliver in distress with forceps . she suffer terrible tearing and , in the end , despite my have undergone major abdominal surgery , I be discharge before she . I be not an expert , but at the time it seem to I that a c - section may have be a well outcome for she . another friend suffer a long and uneventful labour similar to mine . again , the consultant do not like c - section , so she end up deliver her daughter with a last - minute smash - and - grab with a pair of forceps . her baby be resuscitate on arrival and remove to the special care unit . my friend suffer flashback for year afterwards . compare with that — I could not drive for four week , but overall I feel okay — I feel that my experience be superior . I be therefore particularly horrify when the Ockenden report be issue last year to see that a reluctance to perform c - section be one of the factor in the failing of the Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust . in fact , it be generally consider on a nationwide basis to be a huge success not to use this lifesaving option wherever possible . there be undoubtedly woman who have experience unnecessary trauma or bad because of a reluctance to use a c - section . I fear that what lie behind that reluctance be a failure to listen to woman when they be have their baby and when they know what option would be good for they at that time . we celebrate advance in modern medicine and advance that save life . I be not entirely sure why we do not fully celebrate the advance of a c - section . as I say , the objective when a woman be have her baby be to ensure that they both leave the hospital and arrive home in as good a state as possible . we must urge everyone in society and in the medical profession to ensure that that be their top priority . first , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) for secure the debate , and I thank she and the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) for establish the all - party parliamentary group on birth trauma . I co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss , and it be surprising , and remiss of we , that we have never focus on birth trauma as part of the work of that all - party parliamentary group . that could be why it do not feature heavily in the Government ' s woman ' s health strategy . I be therefore thankful that my hon . friend have bring the subject to Parliament front and centre and that we be talk about it . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend for share her story . it be three year ago in my first Baby Loss Awareness Week debate that I stand in Westminster Hall and tell my story , not realise how much it get to you when you be speak in a very quiet Chamber and in public . I be thankful to colleague for intervene on I on that day so that I could just get through . so I understand exactly where she be today and think she have be incredibly brave . I hope that she continue to use the force she have inside she for good . I also thank the hon . member for Canterbury , who be clearly a powerful advocate for her constituent . it be appal that her friend and family need to drop her name as they go to hospital for what should be a routine procedure — if we want to call labour a procedure . I be sorry that they have to do that , and I hope that the voice in this place will mean that that will not be case for much long . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) for highlight what be a difficult time for dad . listen to his speech make I think that , when we lose our baby , even though my husband be with I all the time , they do not ask for his opinion at all . have he not be there , would they have do ? I be not sure . I thank my co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss , the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , for her collaborative work on all thing baby loss , and for share her story . she highlight how dangerous labour and birth be . it have never be safe . we just do not evolve very well as a species in that regard . it be thank to medical advance that we save as many baby and woman as we do today in this country . do the hon . Lady agree that the scandal of maternal death among black and ethnic minority woman be especially horrific ? we need to work with group such as five x more and highlight that in this place as often as we can , to end it as soon as we can . I absolutely agree . we have do some work and a few inquiry session on that in the all - party parliamentary group . the disparity be outrageous . the Government be try to put in place plan such as continuity of care , which I will come to . it be a particular passion of mine and I will speak about it a little later . since become the Member of Parliament for Truro and Falmouth , I have make it my mission to champion as many woman ' s health issue as I can , particularly baby loss . I have often talk in this place about what happen to I , though I will not go into my story today for fear of not be able to get through my speech . we have just have Baby Loss Awareness Week , which we will talk about in the next debate . tackle often avoidable birth trauma be an integral part of that mission . bring life into this world be the most precious thing . where woman have unfortunate experience , we must make sure that adequate measure be in place to support they and the mental health of their family . I thank all the woman who have come today to support my hon . friend the Member for Stafford and the work she have do for every one of they . it be a brave move to come forward and talk about your story , let alone collaborate , come to this place and advocate for other woman who be watch at home . I thank they . every woman be different . the free the flow of information between mother and their doctor , the more tailor - make and inform the health provision can be . I be reassure that work have start in this space to start to empower woman through inform maternity decision . we have outline that in document such as the " Safer Maternity Care Progress Report 2021 " and further progress report over the last two year . I have be particularly reassure and impress by the engagement of our Minister through the various all - party parliamentary group on woman ' s health . let I take this opportunity to thank all colleague who have be involve in boost maternity issue . we be lucky to have a Minister who understand this area completely , have work in the sector . she do all she can to keep we inform of development , and when we do not get thing right , she take it on board . deliver a more informed maternity provision in our hospital have the potential to reduce birth trauma cause by inappropriate method of birth for a specific mother with specific need , which be even more important when consider that seven in 1 , 000 baby bear to black mother be stillborn . if we be able to provide evidence - base information to mother from all background on what option well suit their need , we will undoubtedly get to grip with the inequality in pregnancy outcome . in my role as chair of the all - party group I mention , I have hear so many story from woman about their experience . some be simply traumatic and some should never be allow to happen again . when my hon . friend the Member for Stafford tell I she would come forward with her story and have the fire inside she to start a campaign , I give she a word of warning from when it happen to I . you tell your story once , and you think you can pack it away until you need to think about it again . when you be constantly talk to other people who have be through a similar thing , you be constantly think about your own experience as well . some day you can put on a front , put your armour on , get through it and be that shoulder for they to cry on . other day it be not as easy . my advice to anyone who have be through it be to look after yourself first , please . you can not look after other unless you have look after yourself . in so many of these story , woman talk about their excitement for what be to come , and the search for answer afterwards when thing go horribly wrong . we have a duty to make sure that every time an expectant mother visit a hospital , midwife or local gp , they receive full and proper advice from someone who be fully inform about their case . that be why I come to continuity of carer . it have be prove to work . in area of the country where we have high number of mother live in social deprivation or ethnic minority mother , it have already be put into practice by the Royal College of Midwives and various health trust . we know that it work , but the problem at the moment be the lack of midwife to roll it out nationwide . the Minister be alive to this ; she understand it . we be see more young people go into midwifery . we have a lot of first - year student at the moment . I be pretty confident that in the year to come we will start to see more midwife deploy on ward , and continuity of carer will start to become a reality . really , the message be simple to any healthcare professional : just listen to woman . listen to those who advocate for woman when they be in labour . just listen . if you can , listen rather than think you know what be go on . take a step back , listen to what be happen and have a conversation rather than rush and panic often lead to a well outcome . my hospital , the Royal Cornwall Hospital in Treliske in Truro , have improve its maternity care a lot in the last 10 to 15 year . we be also get a new woman and child ' s hospital as part of the new hospital programme . thank to those two factor , unlike other part of the country we have no midwifery vacancy in Cornwall . not only that , we have a waiting list of people want to be midwife . I pay tribute to Kim o ' Keeffe , the chief nurse officer and deputy chief executive of the hospital , and all her team , for their relentless work in this space . they be work in a decaying building at the moment , but even so we be in a much well place than we have be . the woman in Cornwall who be to give birth be in a much well place than they be 10 to 15 year ago . I want to put on record just how desperate birth trauma be . even a healthy birth — like my first birth — be a shock if you be not expect it . it be something that happen to you ; you have no idea what be happen . even afterwards , if it be all fine , you think , " my God , what just happen ? " it be a shock that can still bring on post - natal depression , because of the relentlessness of look after a brand - new baby . I have have two pregnancy and two birth : one straightforward live birth , and the second a stillbirth . that be a straightforward birth physically , but mentally completely traumatic , because I know I be give birth to my baby who be not alive . I have to recover from that and grieve , and I know what be wrong : my baby be not well enough to survive . the shock be over a whole weekend rather than a matter of hour . we have hear story today , and I will briefly tell the story of someone very close to I . she be see as low risk , rush into hospital and the baby be stick in the birth canal . she be rush in for an emergency section . her husband be nowhere to be see , because he be sideline . there be a loss of blood . it take my friend six year before she would fall pregnant again . luckily , she have a new baby — a little brother — who be bear last month . she be frighten all the time about premature labour and whether it could happen again , and whether she should get pregnant again . after my stillbirth , I be too scared to get pregnant again , and I already have a daughter so I do not . it be different for every woman and family ; there be not one fix for everyone . I go back to my previous point that we just have to listen to woman . all the service around maternity , during labour and afterwards , include counselling service , must be there because the woman — or the birth partner , the dad — have ask for they . some woman will sail through everything and be fine , but some will not . we need to ensure that , regardless of what they ask for , we be listen . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be a real privilege to follow such a powerful speech by the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) . I put on the record my gratitude to the hon . member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) , who open the debate . she have my utter admiration for her bravery in come here and share her experience . it must have be extremely difficult , but she get her important point across none the less . all the speech today have be powerful . it be important that we discuss the significant trauma that too many woman experience . it can be cause by a whole range of thing , as have come through powerfully . there be no one - size - fit - all formula , as the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth point out , but that be all the more reason for we to take seriously the shock and trauma that can follow birth . let I also record my great admiration for the tireless , immense and important work of my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) , who have just make an unscripted arrival in the Chamber , to support woman affect by the terrible trauma of stillbirth and baby loss . research show that 4 % to 5 % of woman who give birth develop post - traumatic stress disorder . we have hear about the Birth Trauma Association ' s vital work to convey the difficulty for woman and , indeed , father — partner . I be glad that the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists provide a briefing for the debate , in which it talk in detail about some of the challenge that people face . up to 9 in 10 first - time mother who have a vaginal birth will experience some sort of tear . we have hear in detail about some of the significant injury and trauma that can happen . we must not underestimate the impact of those and other trauma . the hon . member for Stafford set out clearly the broad range of trauma with respect to both the physical and the mental wellbeing of mother , as well as the long - term impact of lot of the trauma that woman experience . like other speaker , I have be contact by a number of woman who want to share their story . I will concentrate on one particular story , which date back to 2006 . the woman who be in touch with I describe her experience as " horrendous " . as far as she and her partner could see , thing have be go along smoothly , everything be plan , and they be not make aware of any risk factor , but thing start to go wrong . she experience an unconsented " stetch and sweep " of the cervix — " while I ' m in there anyway " be how it be put to they . she correctly ask how many patient in any other circumstance would feel that it be okay for a medical professional to perform an additional unconsented procedure just because they be in that area of the anatomy anyway . of course , such utter lack of care be not the norm — all the great NHS staff who work in this area have my admiration — but in the small number of situation in which it occur it can have a big impact on woman . the lady who be in touch with I say that the pain she experience during the birth be " visceral , white - hot soul destroy misery . " she be unable to return to work because of the impact and she need further time off for surgery . she eventually receive a diagnosis of ptsd . she point out that woman be not listen to , a point that other have make and one that I will come back to , but she also point out the long - last impact of her experience . as well as look forward to the child who be deliver go forward into adulthood , she and her partner be still look back on that trauma , which continue to have an effect on their life . I have not experience what that lady do . I be fortunate that the emergency caesarean section that I have be one of the calm experience of my life — that be my good luck , I think — but I remember how acutely vulnerable I feel give birth and be in hospital . I do not know how I would have cope with the additional challenge that we have hear about today . I be glad that we have hear about the particular challenge face by black and asian woman . statistically , they face significantly more challenge , include the great number of woman who die during pregnancy or shortly thereafter . significant work be need on that . we can not just shake our head at the statistic ; we need to make sure that they lead to action . it be probably timely also to mention the worry that I be sure we all feel for mum and expectant mum in place in the world where thing be much more challenging . I have no doubt that we be think of the mum in Israel and Gaza who be deal with the most challenging of situation . the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) speak about how we be expect to grin and bear it in the situation that we have be discuss . that be absolutely unreasonable , but there be a narrative in some quarter that this be just what woman have to put up with and they should just take it . I do not think that that be acceptable at all . as a number of member say , we need to listen . the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) and for Truro and Falmouth make that point eloquently . I spend yesterday at the Women and Equalities Committee talk about woman ' s experience of not be listen to in the context of their reproductive health . the impact of that on woman ' s life can be profound and last many year . we be deal with the very same situation here . Most of the time , woman give birth in an uncomplicated and unchallenge way , and thing go well . we be grateful for that . but often enough , thing do not go the way that they should . one key way that we can make that well be by actively listen to woman and take their opinion into account , give that the care for they and their child will be impact . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the hon . member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) for secure this important debate . I know that she have work hard to raise this issue both in the Chamber and through her work outside it . I want to express my deep admiration of she for share in public such a move story about a terrifying experience . that take a lot of courage . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) for her kindness and congratulate she on her work on the newly launch all - party parliamentary group for birth trauma . I know that it will be successful and productive . I thank the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) for share his personal story and be an ally . he rightly say that it be shameful that this be happen in 2023 , and that be link to what my hon . friend the Member for Canterbury say about how her friend and family have to name - drop she before they can get the support that they deserve . I thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) and for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , too , for share their story . I also thank the mother with experience of this issue who be watch in the Chamber , and organisation that be work really hard on the issue . this have be a very constructive debate . as we have hear , birth trauma be a difficult experience for anyone , but it have be in the shadow for far too long . it be right that we be speak about it today and make it clear to the Government and all member of the House that there be progress to be make . pregnancy , birth and become a parent can be a special and rewarding time for many people . it be the start of an exciting journey into parenthood and a time to celebrate new life . however , it be clear that , at a moment of such importance and sensitivity , when complication occur the right support do not always follow . the statistic on maternity outcome lie bare the problem that we face . the level of support be down , satisfaction be down , and confidence and trust in the system be down . the Care Quality Commission ' s " maternity survey 2022 " report that woman ' s experience of care have deteriorate in the last five year . the proportion of woman contact a midwifery team who be give the help that they need during antenatal care drop from 74 % in 2017 to 69 % in 2022 . as for postnatal care , only 70 % of mother be " always " give the help that they need when contact a midwifery or health visit team , a fall of nearly 10 % since 2019 . the downward trend continue : less than half — just 45 % — say that they could " always " get support or advice about feed their baby during evening , night or weekend , down from 56 % in 2017 , and just 59 % say they be always give the information and explanation that they need during their care in hospital , down from 66 % in 2017 . what those statistic show be that mother do not have full confidence in our system , and thing be only get bad . it be therefore not surprising to hear that , accord to the Birth Trauma Association , between about 4 % and 5 % of woman who give birth develop a post - traumatic stress disorder : that be about 30 , 000 woman a year in the UK . the symptom include flashback , nightmare , and extreme anxiety that make daily life immensely challenging . this be a shocking and sad indictment of the current system and show how much more need to be do . we should also not forget the vast health inequality that exist across Britain . we should all be aware of the fact that woman in the nation ' s most deprived area be 3 . 5 time more likely to die from an avoidable cause than those in the least deprived area , and the fact — mention by my hon . friend the Member for Canterbury — that maternal mortality among black woman be currently almost four time high than it be among white woman . that be why Labour ' s mission set an explicit target to end the black maternal mortality gap . the pandemic , of course , exacerbate those exist inequality , particularly among the most vulnerable woman in our society . as we hear from the hon . member for Stafford and my hon . friend the Member for Canterbury , the feeling of anxiety , helplessness , and fear that those with birth trauma endure be traumatic for all , but for woman also to know that they be more at risk because of their race , their income or where they live be shocking , sad and wrong . yesterday , along with the shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , I meet representative of the Maternal Mental Health Alliance . they welcome the roll - out of maternal mental health service in some part of the country , focus on those with mental health difficulty arise from trauma or loss relate to childbirth , fear of childbirth , miscarriage , stillbirth , neonatal death , pregnancy termination and loss of custody whose need be not currently meet by other service . what concern they be that these service be not available in every part of England . as the hon . member for Stafford point out , there be significant variation in the support offer by the service that be roll out so far , create a postcode lottery for woman , baby and family . the alliance be also concerned about the lack of sustainable funding for many service . these be fundamental service provide vital care for woman ; they be not luxury extras . we need to ensure that in all part of the country , woman who have experience birth trauma and be struggle with their mental health have access to specialist support , and that there be continue funding in every area to meet the level of need that we know be out there . that be the alliance ' s ask of the Minister . I want to make it clear that I be not say we do not appreciate the vast majority of our NHS and healthcare worker . Labour believe that the NHS be the backbone of our country , and will never abandon the found principle of the NHS as a publicly fund public service , free at the point of use . however , as with so many other issue , this Government be preside over a healthcare system that be go backwards rather than forward . it be the Government ' s role to break down barrier and solve the difficult problem that we face , but it sometimes seem that those barrier be become high and high . I want to raise with the Minister some concern about the woman ' s health strategy . it lack a plan to tackle the increase waiting list and a plan to enhance maternity care standard , and it fail to address the persistent staffing shortage . as my hon . friend the Member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) have say previously , it be plainly inadequate . the Royal College of Midwives tell I this week that fundamental to deliver well maternity care be have enough midwife . the fact be that midwife be leave the profession in drove , and the Government be fail to stop it happen . the Minister must tell we how she plan to keep the staff whom we currently have and ensure that the problem do not continue to worsen . on top of those shortcoming , there be the problem that when a mother need mental health support , the resource simply be not there . midwife do not have the expertise or the time , and the result be that parent ' mental health be not be fully assess . overall , patient seek mental health treatment spend more than 5 . 4 million hour wait in A & e in 2021 and 2022 . the reality be that patient be wait or be overlook rather than get the support that they need . it be therefore no surprise that the deputy chief executive of NHS Providers have say that mental health service be over - stretch and understaffed , and that trust be deeply concerned about the level of unmet need . we need measure to address all these problem early . let I end by again congratulate the hon . member for Stafford on secure the debate . I know it be not easy for she to share her story , and I hope she feel reassure that she have take a significant step today in raise such an important issue . I , too , congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) on her courageous speech , in which she describe the birth of her daughter and the terrifying experience that she have . it be good to hear that she receive such great support from her NHS team , but concern to hear of her negative experience — and as a former Minister for maternity service , I know that they be not isolate and that many other will have have similar experience . my hon . friend be a tireless advocate for woman who have suffer birth trauma , and I pay tribute to she for the work that she have do and , I be sure , will continue to do . I also congratulate member on both side of the House who have share their personal experience and those of their constituent , include my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , who do so much in the area of baby loss , and who I be sure will speak in the next debate . the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) talk about her experience of a caesarean section , and I want to reassure she that we be try to move away from term such as " normal " and " natural " to the term " a safe birth " , whether that refer to a " natural " birth or a c - section . I have be work with the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) on the East Kent inquiry and its recommendation , and have meet many of her constituent who also share their traumatic experience about the care they have receive . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) for share his experience as a partner , and also for point out that many of these issue apply to all four nation of the United Kingdom . I respond as the Minister for service in England but , obviously , I work closely with devolve colleague to try to ensure a consistent service across the country . I have listen very carefully to the contribution and pay tribute to everyone for their courage in share their story . before this debate , I be pleased to meet my hon . friend the Member for Stafford to talk about the issue she have raise and to share with she the many piece of work that the Government be already start , after they be share by woman across the call for evidence on the woman ' s health strategy and by meet many woman across the country to discuss maternity service . we clearly need to do much more in this space , but I will also share some of the progress we be make . I salute the work of the newly establish all - party parliamentary group on birth trauma , chair by my hon . friend , which be showcase an issue that very few people like to talk about . she discuss break the taboo , because even woman who have be through birth trauma be often very reluctant to talk about this difficult subject , but the issue affect thousand of woman . we can see from the response in the Gallery how important it be that we break the taboo and talk about these issue , both to prevent birth trauma and to manage the consequence when it happen . I commend the work of charity such as the Birth Trauma Association and the many campaigner who be here today . it be important that we highlight this issue , because many woman go through pregnancy do not realise some of the choice that be available to try to prevent birth trauma in the first place . birth trauma and injury take a toll on woman , both physically and mentally , and great awareness from the public and healthcare professional be crucial to prevent birth trauma and mitigate its impact on woman ' s life . we have hear a number of example of compassionate care , which be essential both in reduce and prevent injury and in help woman and their family to cope with the impact of injury when it happen . I be sorry that I be not able to be here for the speech , but will the Minister join I in commend health practitioner such as Stephanie Milne , who run Physio Village in my Livingston constituency ? she do mummy mot , and she talk a lot about birth trauma and how her work support woman who have be through birth trauma . do the Minister agree that the NHS can do more to help woman through such post - natal healthcare support ? I absolutely pay tribute to they . we have hear some great example of work happen around the country , but the point have also be make that it be not consistently available to everyone . those example show why compassionate care be a key part of the work we be take forward , particularly in relation to Bill Kirkup ' s report on maternity and neonatal service in east Kent , which be publish last year . Dr Kirkup rightly emphasise the need for compassionate care and a change in culture as well as a change in practice for woman throughout their pregnancy , labour and post - natal period . compassion , kindness and understanding all require woman and their family to be treat as individual and to be hear . that be something we hear strongly in our call for evidence on the woman ' s health strategy , to which we have over 100 , 000 response . that be why birth trauma be mention in the strategy , and I will talk about that far . as part of this , we have to recognise that the ptsd , psychological trauma or depression that a mother may experience also have to be support . just deliver a safe birth be not enough . wear my other hat as the mental health Minister , it be why new mum be a high - risk group in the suicide prevention strategy . it be a shocking statistic that the lead cause of death in new mum be suicide , but it be a very vulnerable time in a woman ' s life . they be often isolate from work colleague if they be on maternity leave and , if they be a first - time mum , they will not have a support network of other mum . we hear all over the place on social medium what a wonderful time it should be in a mother ' s life , that they should be bloom with a new child , but the reality can be very different . we have hear that today , whether it be issue around breastfeed , not sleep or just feel isolated . on top of that , birth trauma can cause difficulty in not be able to drive and with be in pain — there be a whole raft of issue . through the work we be do on maternity and focus on new mum as a high - risk priority group in mental health , we be try to drive forward change to support woman well . I be pleased to have the opportunity to update the House on the wide progress we be make to improve outcome in pregnancy . I fully understand the importance of prevent perineal trauma during childbirth . we have to be honest that we can not always prevent it . I be not a midwife , but there be risk factor such as a large baby , a small cervix or a long birth that mean trauma and injury will sometimes happen . there be no doubt that we need to do more to reduce the incidence of perineal trauma but , if it happen , we need to manage it in a much well way . that be why I be pleased that NHS England have this week publish a national service specification for perinatal pelvic health service , which it aim to roll out across England by March 2024 in order to end the postcode lottery of service . the specification state that the service will work with maternity unit across England to implement the obstetric anal sphincter injury care bundle develop by the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and the Royal College of Midwives . as my hon . friend the Member for Stafford say , get the specification roll out across the country be an early success for the APPG . I be confident that this new guidance , which will be implement across maternity unit , will reduce the rate of anal sphincter injury result from labour and vaginal birth and help to manage such injury in a much well way when they happen . the introduction of these service will broaden the core service offer of pelvic health beyond the exist NICE and RCOG guideline on care for obstetric anal sphincter injury . the service will make sure that all pregnant woman get the advice and support they need to prevent and identify pelvic health problem , and that those who do have problem be offer conservative treatment option before surgery be consider , in line with nice guideline . we all know the crucial role that midwive play in recognise woman who be suffer perinatal mental illness , include by take a trauma - inform approach to care . to support this , NHS England be refresh its core competency framework for perinatal mental health . the shadow Minister touch on this , and I reassure she that , by the early part of next year , every integrate care system in England — I can not comment on what be happen in labour - run Wales — will have a fully work maternal mental health service to support mother experience moderate , severe or complex mental health difficulty . it be true that the number of woman access perinatal mental health service have rise by almost 50 % over two year , but that be good news because we want woman to come forward . the challenge for the Government in England be be able to meet that demand . for too long , woman have suffer in silence and isolation . when they come forward , we need to have the service to support they . this demonstrate that mental health service be more important than ever before . a number of colleague have identify the issue of inequality in maternity care , and we know that some woman , particularly asian , black and working - class woman , be experience poor mental health and poor outcome in maternity across the board . that be why we continue to fight to introduce NHS equity and equality action plan across the country . I be proud of the progress we be make on develop resource , and I pay particular tribute to the maternity disparity taskforce , which be work with organisation to deliver this as quickly as possible . a number of issue be raise in the debate and , touch on birth trauma in the woman ' s health strategy , we will fairly soon be update our year 2 strategy and set out our priority . I will let member know about that as soon as possible . there be a lot we could talk about in this space , and I pay tribute once again to my hon . friend the Member for Stafford and all colleague who have share their experience . I reiterate that this be a priority for the Government . we be see change , but more change need to happen . first , let I thank the Minister for listen to the call of mother across the UK and for take action . it be fantastic news that NHS England will now be implement the OASI care bundle to ensure that we reduce birth injury across England . I also thank she for work so constructively with I ahead of this debate . I be delighted to hear that there will be a refresh update of the woman ' s health strategy , which I very much hope will include birth trauma . secondly , let I thank all the hon . member who have speak in the debate . in particular , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , who have do amazing work on baby loss and chair the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss . I thank my fantastic APPG co - chair , the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) , for share the personal experience of her constituent . I be also strike by the contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) , who talk about the experience of dad , which we do not talk about enough in these debate ; by the intervention from the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) and my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) ; and by the contribution from many other . it have be a critical moment in history for we to hold today ' s debate , and I hope that the woman watch , both live on television and here today , feel that they have be listen to and hear . we have hear from the Minister that action have be take today on birth trauma . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House note that many woman across the UK experience birth trauma ; and call on the Government to take step to support woman experience birth trauma . Baby Loss Awareness Week I beg to move , that this House have consider Baby Loss Awareness Week . I thank the Backbench Business Committee and all those who have support this important debate . in particular , I thank the hon . member for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) , who , unfortunately and unexpectedly , have be unable to attend . she send her apology to Mr Speaker for that . I also wish to thank the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , my co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss . she be a font of inspiration , guidance and support , and I thank she for that . I join the APPG shortly after be elect and become its co - chair early this year . I join because many of my constituent have suffer the loss of a baby at Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust , and the Ockenden report on systemic failing there reveal that many woman — indeed , whole family in Shropshire and the surround area — have suffer a devastating loss that be avoidable . Baby Loss Awareness Week — which take place last week , while we be still in recess , but which we be mark with this debate — be an important moment to support any family who have lose their baby and to ask ourselves whether anything more can be do to prevent other family suffer this heartbreak . this time last year we debate the finding of the ockenden report — most importantly , the need for safe staffing level in maternity unit across the country . one year on , I ask the Minister to update we specifically on the progress make and on the outlook for maternity service and safe level of staffing in the future . unfortunately , since the debate last year we have be starkly remind that poor maternity care be not restrict to Shropshire . Dr Bill Kirkup have report on his finding at East Kent and Donna Ockenden be currently review issue at Nottingham , which threaten to be on an even great scale than those at Shrewsbury and Telford . each time a scandal emerge , we promise ourselves that it will be the last time , but tragically that have not be the case so far . far from be a localised issue , it seem that maternity service have be experience a crisis nationally . in 2022 , 38 % of maternity service be rate by the Care Quality Commission as inadequate or require improvement . the avoidable death of a baby be something we should be work to eliminate . early this year , I attend the launch of the joint report by Sands and Tommy ' s joint policy unit on progress on save baby ' life . the headline of that report be that the Government be not on track to meet their target of halve stillbirth , maternal death , neonatal death and serious brain injury from their 2010 level by 2025 , and there be no target for further improvement beyond 2025 . the report also show that in 2021 there be 13 baby per day who be stillborn or die within the first 28 day of life across the UK . in 2021 - 22 , nearly a fifth of stillbirth be find to have be potentially avoidable if well care have be provide , and two third of action plan create follow the death of a baby be rate as weak . too often , avoidable loss continue to occur as a result of care that be not in line with National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guidance . for example , datum for England show that 40 % of woman and birth people do not attend their antenatal assessment before 10 week ' gestation , as be recommend in the NICE guideline . research must be the key to improve outcome and save more baby ' live in the future , yet relatively little be invest in pregnancy - relate research . for every £ 1 spend on maternity care in the NHS , only 1p be spend on pregnancy research . bad , health inequality be stark when we look at baby loss . black baby be twice as likely to die in their first 28 day as white baby , and black ethnicity be associate with a 43 % high rate of miscarriage than white ethnicity . in England and Wales , in 2021 the stillbirth rate for woman from the black african ethnic group be seven per 1 , 000 birth , which would have to reduce by more than 60 % in four year to meet the 2025 overall population target of 2 . 6 per 1 , 000 birth . stillbirth be almost double the level among people live in deprive area in the UK than they be among those in the least deprived area . there be also a real lack of evidence in this area . much of the national datum be base on aggregate ethnic group or broad category of deprivation , which provide limited insight into individual life . despite the Government ' s commitment to level up , there be no national target and no long - term funding for reduce inequality between ethnic group or area of deprivation . I know that the Minister have read that report and engage seriously with these issue , and I urge she to consider its recommendation in full . my constituent Kayleigh and Colin Griffiths , along with Rhiannon Davies and Richard Stanton from Telford , campaign tirelessly for the Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust review , and I be pleased that they be each award an mbe early this year in recognition of their effort to ensure that parent ' voice be hear and that baby bear in future would be safe . they have reflect on the new concern that have come to light and have write to the Secretary of State to request a public inquiry into maternity service in England , give the apparently alarming scale of the national problem . unfortunately , they have not yet receive a response to that letter . will the Minister confirm whether the Secretary of State will be reply to that letter , and whether the Government will consider nationwide action to fully understand why maternity service have come under so much pressure and how to prevent avoidable baby death in future ? we should always remember that these be not statistic but the horrific experience of woman at their most vulnerable . a constituent write to I this week follow her own experience at Shrewsbury and Telford , one about which Donna Ockenden ' s team conclude that different management would reasonably have be expect to have make a difference to the outcome . my constituent say : " my son be bear 10 day overdue on 7th August 2007 in Shrewsbury hospital . unfortunately , due to gross negligence by the trust that day I leave their hospital with empty arm and a broken heart . " Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust accept all the finding of the ockenden report and regularly report its progress against the recommendation . I be in regular contact with the trust ' s team , and they report that 75 % of the recommendation in the report have be deliver and assure , and that there be good progress on the remainder . of the recommendation in the early first report , 88 % have be implement and assure , and I have also receive assurance that staff level in the maternity service be at an acceptable level . however , Donna Ockenden also recommend immediate and essential action for the whole of the UK in both her first and second report . I hope the Minister will be able to provide we with an update on progress on those action , particularly on safe staffing , training and culture within the maternity service . I also want to consider those awful circumstance where the loss of a baby be unavoidable and the cause often unknown . in 2021 , the cause of 33 % of stillbirth and 7 % of neonatal death be unclear . the all - party group on baby loss have hear devastating evidence from parent who have be leave in limbo for month or even year wait to find out why their baby die , because of a desperate shortage of perinatal pathologist . a survey conduct by Sands in 2022 find that delay in parent receive post - mortem result have significantly worsen over time . More than a fifth of parent report wait up to six month or more for the result of their baby ' s post - mortem . in October 2022 , an interim policy for the commissioning of perinatal post - mortem be adopt , which define inclusion and exclusion criterion as to which case will be offer a perinatal post - mortem . since this policy be adopt , no audit of the impact have be undertake , with NHS England acknowledge that communication of the interim policy have fall short . sand have receive anecdotal evidence of consent taker be unaware of the new approach and it be concerned that that have lead to parent not be fully inform about consent . there be currently just under 50 full - time equivalent paediatric and perinatal pathology consultant in post in the UK , with an additional 15 vacant consultant post . the number of current trainee be insufficient to fill these vacancy accord to the Royal College of Pathologists . will the Minister provide a clear commitment and timeline for the recruitment of perinatal pathologist , to ensure that no bereaved parent ever have to wait more than six month for post - mortem result ? it be obvious that staffing remain the single most important issue for maternity service . in a survey commission by the Sands and Tommy ' s joint policy unit , 84 % of midwife who be ask disagree that there be enough staff around they for they to do their job properly . a decrease in staffing level have be down to staff sickness rate over time and job satisfaction . in 2022 , 63 % of midwife in England have feel unwell in the past 12 month because of stress . NHS England have recently publish its long - term workforce plan and the Government have provide an initial financial commitment of £ 2 . 4 billion over the next five year to fund education and training . will the Minister consider the importance of long - term recurrent funding , as well as investment in retention ? without that , there be a risk of lose valuable experience and skill in the exist workforce . the workforce plan model the number of future midwife require , but do not include other staff group , which risk ignore some of the area and specialism in the wide maternity and neonatal workforce , where staffing issue be most acute . we all know there be no magic money tree , but it be a false economy to continue to deliver service that be potentially unsafe . accord to Sands , the cost of harm from clinical negligence cause by NHS maternity service be £ 8 . 2 billion in 2021 / 22 — 60 % of the total cost of harm from clinical negligence in the NHS and more than double what the health service spend on maternity care in the first place . the cost of failure be always so much high than the cost of success . in conclusion , while the Government ' s commitment to the recommendation of the ockenden report be welcome , there be a still a long way to go to deliver world - class maternity service and meet the Government ' s own target of halve baby loss by 2025 . too often , harm continue to occur as a result of care that be not in line with nationally agree standard . listen to the voice and experience of family must be at the heart of policy , but most importantly we must ensure staffing level be safe , so that no one leave hospital with empty arm and a broken heart , where that might have be avoid . it be a pleasure to speak on this important subject . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) and for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , and the other who have secure the debate . it have become something of a tradition that we mark Baby Loss Awareness Week , although we be not able to do so last week because of the recess . this have also become one of the more emotional and harrowing debate — I have sit through many debate over many year — which be a great tribute to how this place have progress . when I first come to this House all those year ago , as you do , Madam Deputy Speaker , baby loss be a subject that be not discuss . certainly , the personal experience of member , particularly female member , go through the trauma we hear about in the early debate and through baby loss generally , let alone the experience of partner , do not come out into the open . the stigma surround mental health mean that no Member of Parliament would dare to raise in public the fact that they might have some mental illness problem . why would they not ? a lot of the population have such problem , and we be just human like the rest of the population , do a particularly stressful job . the progress that we have make over the 26 and a half year that we have be in Parliament , Madam Deputy Speaker , be a real tribute to this place , and to the bravery and openness of hon . member who have come forward with their personal experience . those experience enrich the way in which we scrutinise Government Departments , rule , regulation and legislation that need to be bring in to deal with related problem . I pay tribute to all those who have share their experience . I be listen to the previous debate in my room , in between meeting , and I particularly pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) , as she say it be the first time that the specific issue of birth trauma have be mention here . she open up incredibly emotionally about her own experience . I be glad that in my hon . friend ' s wind - up speech she mention how the issue affect dad as well . it be not a female - only issue ; it be a parent issue . where there be two parent involve in a child ' s life , the impact of baby loss can be incredible on the male parent , and we should never forget that . too often , health official speak over the head of father to the mother , but father have an equally vested interest in what happen , not only to their partner but to their new - bear baby as well . do my hon . friend agree that the fact that aftercare for father be often lack place a huge burden on relationship ? sadly , the statistic show that 50 % of relationship can break down after the loss of a baby . do he agree that we need to do much more to support father , as well as mother , after the loss of a baby ? my hon . friend , who again have great experience and have be exceedingly forward with her own experience , be absolutely right . there have be many study on maternal perinatal mental health problem . the late estimate be that that cost this country over £ 8 billion , and there have be an increase in perinatal mental health problem among woman , exacerbate by the lockdown . as happen to our own colleague , for many month baby bear during lockdown do not come into contact with another baby , or with extended family member such as grandparent , who would usually be at the hospital bedside to welcome a new baby , but be not allow to be there . speak as the chairman of the all - party parliamentary group for conception to age two : first 1001 day , we be only start to see the considerable impact of that on baby . we will only start to see that as those baby grow up and go to school . however , there have not be as many study about the impact on the mental health of father . there be good evidence to suggest that father can suffer considerably , yet the support network , which be still not good enough for mum , be not nearly good enough for father . it be a false economy not to support that . in a minute , I want to have another rant about my Act , the Civil Partnerships , Marriages and death ( Registration etc ) Act 2019 — that be the real reason for my come to this debate , although I always try to take part , because the Act deal with stillbirth , in particular — but first I will make some general comment . it be good that we be discuss this issue and that the profile be so much high than it have be in previous year , but there be a lot of work still to do . the stillbirth rate have come down and there have be progress . back in 1993 , there be 5 . 7 stillbirth per 1 , 000 birth . there be 2 , 866 stillbirth in 2021 , so the figure be now about 3 . 8 or 3 . 9 stillbirth per 1 , 000 birth . there have be progress , but in order to get to the target under the national maternity safety ambition , which be launch in 2015 , we need to get that figure down to about 2 . 6 by 2025 , so there be a lot of work still to do on stillbirth . compare with other european country , our record on stillbirth remain poor . we rate sixth worst out the 28 European Union country plus the UK . the country below we be Bulgaria , Malta , Croatia , Slovakia and Romania , which have perhaps traditionally not have as advanced and sophisticated health service as we have in this country . there be no real excuse why we have not make more progress . the hon . Gentleman be correct in what he be say . do he agree that one of the problem across the UK be that , on the whole , most of the stillbirth we have be preventable ? when mistake occur , as they inevitably will at time , there be a culture of cover - up and secrecy , so the lesson that need to be learn be not be learn , because NHS trust and health board be too busy try to cover their back rather than find out what go wrong . the hon . Lady gallop way ahead of I ; I will come on to speak about that . that be what my private Member ' s Bill , now an Act , seek to address , so I will come back to those comment . stillbirth be not the only issue . progress have be poor on neonatal death rate , which have plateaue for some year and be even far away from come down to those 2025 target . there be 1 , 719 neonatal death last year — that be death within 28 day of be bear . there be also the whole subject of miscarriage . I will not go into great detail on that , but we know that at least one in five pregnancy end in miscarriage , and there be probably more that we do not know about . the Government have do a lot of good work on this . I pay tribute to the former Health and Social Care Secretary , now Chancellor of the Exchequer , for his emphasis on safety in hospital , particularly safety around maternity , and for the launch of the Safer Care Maternity action plan back in 2016 , which be all about improvement in maternity safety training . the our Chance campaign be target at pregnant woman and their family to raise awareness of symptom that can lead to stillbirth . the inauguration of bereavement suite in hospital be another important development — I have see my own in Worthing . it be wholly unsatisfactory that a woman , follow a stillbirth , would be place in a bed next to a mother who have fortunately have a healthy , scream baby . the impact on the mother and the father of have a stillbirth and then see the reverse be traumatic and have to be deal with . the bereavement suite provide a more discreet , private area , away from those mum lucky enough to have healthy baby . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way . it allow I the opportunity to welcome the fact that , last week , NHS Grampian announce the upgrading of the bereavement suite at Dr Gray ' s Hospital . Marsha Dean from Elgin , one of two bereavement specialist midwife in the NHS grampian area , welcome that . Tina Megevand from Moray Sands say , " it ' s so very important that anyone affect by pregnancy loss or death of a baby get the well possible bereavement care and be offer a safe , protect space to spend time and make memory with their baby . " what my hon . friend have just say be crucial and I just want to put on record our appreciation in Moray for have such a facility . I be grateful to my hon . friend for put on record what his local hospital be do , and I hope that that be happen around the country . certainly , my own hospital take great pride in its bereavement suite and they have make a big difference to the impact on parent in its maternity wing . we have have the ockenden report as well as the Cumberlege review , so there have be a lot of activity from the Department of Health and Social Care , but we need to go so much far . although I will not go into detail here , I wish to reference the high incidence of stillbirth and baby loss among the black , asian and minority ethnic community , who be something like five time less likely to receive maternal aftercare . as hon . member have mention , there be also real challenge and big vacancy in the midwifery workforce . as have be say , 38 % of maternity service have be rate as require improvement in safety , so there be still a long way to go . one thing that have particularly alarm I — I be sure other hon . member will have have the briefing from that excellent charity , Sands — be the state of perinatal pathology . I think my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) may be talk far on that . currently , there be a significant proportion of parent who have to wait more than three to six month for their baby ' post mortem to be undertake and for the result to be communicate to they . those wait time be then far exacerbate by poor communication about what be happen . have go through the trauma of lose a newborn baby , parent then have to wait a long time to find out what happen , which cause they additional trauma . as I mention early , there be the whole issue of mental illness and , in particular , the impact of mental illness and depression and the prevalence among teenage mother . it be important that we deal with that early and that the support be there because we know — the Minister mention this in the previous debate — about the high incidence of suicide link to the perinatal period . therefore , this be an important subject . good work have be do . the Government have good plan , but there be still a lot of work to do before we can genuinely say that this be a very safe country in which to give birth and we rank with the top country across the rest of Europe . I wish to talk about my excellent private Member ' s Act , which pass through Parliament some time ago . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will not be surprised to hear I mention it again because I have raise it on the Floor of the House many time . I have harangue the Minister about it many time and will continue to do so . my civil Partnerships , Marriages and death ( registration etc . ) Act 2019 pass through its final stage in this House on 15 March 2019 . it receive Royal Assent on 26 March 2019 ; that is 1 , 303 day ago . it do four thing . first , it enable opposite sex couple to have a civil partnership . that become law on new year ' s eve 2019 . on that day , 167 couple avail themselves of that opportunity and many thousand have since , so we can tick that box . a second part of the Act enable for the first time the name of mother to be include on marriage certificate . up until then , they do not exist , which particularly add insult to injury if it be the mother who bring up the child who be get marry and the father , whose name do appear , have never be on the scene at all . that at last be reverse with my Act — another tick . another part of the Act mandate the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to produce a pregnancy loss review . a committee be set up — I sit on that committee — and in July this year the independent pregnancy loss review , which contain many recommendation — there be some good thing in it , even though it have not meet since 2018 — be at last publish , so another tick . the fourth part of my Act be on coroner ' investigation into stillbirth . what be agree by this House unanimously , with Government support , follow much scrutiny in the other place as well , be that the Secretary of State must " make arrangement for the preparation of a report on whether , and if so how , the law ought to be change to enable or require coroner to investigate still - birth " , and that , after the report have be publish , the Lord Chancellor may , by regulation , amend part 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 . it be a very simple amendment to ensure that , in future , coroner have the power to investigate stillbirth . it do not require any more primary legislation . it require a one - line amendment to the Coroners and Justice Act . when I make my speech for my private Member ' s Bill on 15 March 2019 , I could not have be more wrong . I say then that I know that we be push at an open door with my last measure , as the Health Secretary have signal his support for it at the Dispatch Box during a statement on stillbirth in November . I then set out the anomaly in the law where coroner in England have the power to investigate any unexplained death of any human unless they be stillbirth . that be because a baby who die during delivery be not legally consider to have live . if the baby have not live , it have not die and coroner can investigate death only where there be a body of a deceased person . Most people agree — certainly the coroner themselves , who strongly support this — that that be an anomaly in the law . give some of the scandal that I will come to in a minute , it have give rise to a suspicion — this be the point that the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) raise — that some stillbirth that go unexplained might have be avoidable , and be mistakenly register as stillbirth because that effectively exclude the coroner from launch a further investigation . my Bill be therefore simple in its aim . a consultation be launch , actually before my Bill become an Act , because the Secretary of State be so supportive of it and see it as a formality . the consultation on the change close on 18 June 2019 — over four year ago — and have still not be publish . in order for new regulation to come in , the consultation and subsequent proposal have to be publish , but we still have not get over the first bar of publish the consultation . I have frequently query when the Government will publish the consultation , and have frequently receive a barrage of excuse . of course , covid be the first excuse for why the consultation result — not even the proposal — could not be publish . the matter be chase up by the Justice Committee , which produce its own report on coroner and reinforce the need to get on with the measure in my Act . that message be reinforce by the Health and Social Care Committee , which also produce a report to say that the Government need to get on with the measure . today ' s Minister , for whom I have a lot of time , as my near neighbour in Lewes , have write to I several time . one of the excuse be that we need to wait for the Health and Care Act 2022 to go through in the last Session because of various consideration that could have an impact . that Act pass last year , so be not a consideration anymore . we then have to get the pregnancy loss review publish , for which we have wait since 2019 . that have now be publish , as I have say . we then have the further excuse that the Ministry of Justice be drag its foot . the problem be that it be a Department of Health and a Ministry of Justice issue . I have tackle the Minister for Justice on several occasion . I ask for a joint meeting with the Minister for Health and the Minister for Justice . that meeting be cancel six time , until it eventually happen on 21 March this year , when I be tell that everything be in hand and be sort out . I raise the matter again in Justice question on 12 September . I be tell : " both the Health Minister and I be push this as fast as we possibly can . " — [ Official Report , 12 September 2023 ; Vol . 737 , c . 766 . ] this be appalling . Madam Deputy Speaker , you and I have be in this House for an equally long time . I can not remember a piece of legislation wait to be enact for as long as this , particularly when there appear to be no objection to it . it have be pass unanimously and be not contentious ; the coroner want to do it . it be absolutely extraordinary . I will take this opportunity to put it out in the open yet again that the Government need to get on with this . the legislation be even more important now than when it be pass in 2019 , and when I produce it as a private Member ' s Bill in 2017 . four thing need to be resolve about how coroner would look at these matter , and they have all be resolve . first , we all agree that they should look only at full - term stillbirth . that be where a stillbirth be least likely to happen , and therefore more question arise . I think that everybody agree on that . secondly , it should be at the discretion of the coroner . the coroner will certainly not want to look at every single stillbirth , but where question be raise by the parent or other that something have go a bit awry and we need more information , the coroner can decide at his or her discretion whether there be a case for further investigation . we be talk about dozen , or score , of case , not hundred or thousand . thirdly , it will be up to the coroner to decide , even if the parent do not want a review . that be a difficult one , but there be evidence that some stillbirth can be bring on by domestic violence during pregnancy , and obviously there may be a cover - up because a mum be be coerce . it be right that there should not be a veto and it should be down to the coroner to decide . fourthly , the coroner have decide that it be not a significant resource issue . we do not need to train up a fleet of specialist coroner ; they always want more money , but they think that they can simply take on the responsibility . all those thing have be resolve . there be no outstanding question , but as I say the need for the legislation have grow since it go through . I do not need to remind everybody about the various scandal that have happen . the Nottingham maternity review currently under way cover the late of those revelation . it will be the UK ' s large maternity review , with 1 , 266 family have already contact the review team with their concern . the Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust review , which have already be mention , of the death of more than 200 baby and nine mother between 2000 and 2019 , find that 201 baby could or would have survive have the trust provide well care , and that family be wrongly blame when their baby die , be lock out of inquiry into what happen , and be treat without compassion and kindness . the Morecambe Bay review in 2015 find unnecessary death of 11 baby and one mother between 2004 and 2013 due to oxygen shortage , mismanage labour , failure to recognise complication , and so on . when the East Kent review be publish , the headline be that the East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust be log baby death as stillbirth when in fact they be not stillbirth . what would the reason for that be ? potentially a cover - up , so that a further investigation by a coroner could not take place . the East Kent review into the ongoing problem with the trust be describe as harrowing , with more than 80 concern about midwife and nurse work at the trust investigate by the regulator since 2015 , include case involve the police . eleven midwife and nurse from the trust have be strike off , suspend or place under condition in relation to such case , and 64 doctor from the hospital have be subject to investigation by the General Medical Council over the last decade , with three strike off and three suspend . the report show a failure to implement the recommendation of early report , allow failing to continue at East Kent , and at other hospital elsewhere in the country . it need reinforce that most nurse , midwife and doctor do a fantastic job in difficult circumstance . they most of all will want to ensure that incompetence by a few , and potential cover - up , do not effectively undermine the reputation of those work in maternity care across the whole country . my hon . friend be make brilliant point , which I be so grateful for . do he agree that those healthcare professional will probably welcome this because it will start to break down the blame culture that the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) talk about ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we do not want a blame game . when I be the Minister for Children and we review extraordinary and harrowing child death at the hand of various people , it be the blame game for social worker that so undermine the profession . it be not social worker who kill child ; it be carer and other with evil intent . but where there have be incompetence , where the system have perhaps contribute to that incompetence or have effectively obstruct a professional from get on with their job in the way that they would like to and can do , that be where we need the finding . in some case , that may require a coronial investigation , which can look under every stone and really get down to the root of the problem , rather than just point a finger of blame with which the whole profession get tar . that be why — you will be relieve to hear , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I be about to end — my Bill , if I do say so myself , bring in some important and necessary change in the law , most of which have happen , have be welcome and have go very well . this change be widely welcome , but have not be enact , and the need for it to be enact have never be great . back in 2019 , ahead of the December election , I have promise couple that the regulation to allow civil partnership would be bring in before the end of the year . on the last day before Parliament be dissolve , those regulation be bring to the Floor of the House , and I have to move they — that would normally be do in Committee — in order to get they through in time with the help of the Chief whip . I do not want to have to do the same at the very last breath just ahead of the 2024 election , because there be no excuse for this not have happen several year ago . I plead with the Minister . she support these change . the Government support these change . this Parliament — both Houses — support these change . parent , professional and coroner support these change . why be she not get on with bring they in ? please , please , please knock head together across both Departments and get these regulation lay , get the consultation result publish , and let we bring in an additional layer of safety for parent who go through the trauma of stillbirth and have unanswered question when they leave hospital without the child that they have hope they would leave with . it be a great honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , who set out very clearly his work in this space , for which I be very grateful . I extend an offer to he to use the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss for anything that we can do to help bring about the conclusion that he require , because I believe he be absolutely right . I be incredibly grateful to my APPG co - chair , the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , for request this debate and to the Backbench Business Committee for allow it today . as my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham have already say , it be now a tradition in this place to set aside time to discuss Baby Loss Awareness Week . I have have the privilege of chair the APPG on baby loss for the last three year , and I also chair the all - party parliamentary group on woman ' s health , which mean that much of my time in this place be take up with support woman and family through some truly uncomfortable and sometimes deeply unpleasant experience . as colleague may already be aware , Baby Loss Awareness Week be last week , when the House be in recess , but this debate be now mark in the calendar of this place . I know that many right hon . and hon . friend be in other place today for many good reason , but there be normally a lot of collaboration across the Benches . we forget party politic and talk about what be important . this debate should be a tradition in this place because it show Parliament at its good . not only do it allow the general public to remember that we be all human , but it also mean that tribal party politic be put aside , allow we to try to work together on these important issue . I want to place on the record my sincere thank to the APPG for the work that it do before my time in this place under the guidance of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Banbury ( Victoria Prentis ) , now the Attorney General , and my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) . both of they give powerful testimony in this place before I arrive . I also thank my former co - chair on the APPG , now Chancellor of the Exchequer , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) , who have such a passion for this topic from his time as Health Secretary . it be through his action that we be now see the NHS workforce plan come to fruition . it be a deeply hold passion of his , and it be the key to unlock a lot of what we talk about in this space . the APPG , again before my time , establish the national bereavement care pathway to improve bereavement care and reduce variability throughout the country . it have be adopt by the majority of trust , but it be a constant challenge to ensure that it be maintain give all the compete priority face the NHS . I ask the local health leader watch the debate today to please understand how important the pathway be . we have have two debate in the Chamber this afternoon on topic that affect so many woman and so many family . I ask local health leader not to put the pathway to one side because it could be a cost - save exercise in their trust . I also thank colleague on both side of the House who have in the past take the time to remember the baby that have sadly be lose . I be approach day after day by people who work in this place — some of whom member would never guess — who have tell I privately that this happen to they decade ago and that they still can not bring themselves to talk about it . we be leave to be the advocate for everybody , and if we dig deep , everybody would know somebody who have suffer the loss of a baby or one very close to they . I be really grateful for the local support in my community . I want to give a big thank you to Mike Spicer and the team at A & P in the port of Falmouth for light up their crane in pink and blue last week for Baby Loss Awareness Week . I also thank Nick Simmonds - Screech and the team at Costain who light up one of the bridge over the A30 in pink and blue during the dualle work . it mean a huge amount , and they do it as a favour to I , but all the cornish family who have lose a baby will have see those two monument light up . it just show that we be think about they . as I say , Baby Loss Awareness Week be last week , and at the local service in Truro I meet the team from the Royal Cornwall Hospitals NHS Trust , include the bereavement midwife . Karen Stoyles , our chief nurse , be sadly absent with covid . I put on record my thank to Kim o ' Keeffe for all her work . we also meet parent and family , and mark the occasion with the traditional wave of light , when people across the country who have lose a baby , or people who want to remember those who have lose a baby , light a candle at 7 pm and share the photograph . it mean a lot , and that be why I want to get all that on the record so that we do not lose momentum in this space . in my constituency of Truro and Falmouth , we be build a brand - new woman and child ' s hospital . the principle behind the hospital be to deliver a holistic service to family in Cornwall , whether through sexual health or reproductive health advice or care throughout their pregnancy or the aftercare that mother desperately need . when the hospital be finish in the next couple of year , my constituent will have on their doorstep a facility that specialise in a range of woman ' s health concern . I hope it will be a sanctuary for woman ' s health and a place that really deliver a social benefit , lead to a tangible reduction in baby loss risk throughout the south - west . it will include project such as e - record , digital ward and , hopefully , electronic bed management . that all sound very technical , but it free up clinical staff to be clinical and to be at the bedside care for patient . my experience of chair the two appg have confirm to I that the Government do take baby loss incredibly seriously . we also owe thank to charity such as Tommy ' s , Sands and the Lullaby Trust for all their work in this field . they have incredible team that do some of the good work , and I will always be grateful for everything they do to help I in this journey . it be also appropriate for I to thank the Minister for her effort in keep this at the top of the Department ' s priority list , and I appreciate she for address the Sands and Tommy ' s joint report launch in Portcullis House early this year . it be very easy for our deliberation in this place to concentrate on , and constantly revert to , complaint about staffing level . although staffing be vital , it be prudent for we to focus on the core issue of quality practice and the information provide to parent throughout pregnancy . that be why I always go on about the continuity of care . we mention in the previous debate how that can help with baby loss in so many way , and it have be prove to work in hospital trust in area where there be a great chance of social deprivation . as soon as we can get staffing level up to a safe standard , that continuity of care should be roll out across the country . it pick up not only on lifestyle issue that could harm a baby , but on thing such as domestic violence , which my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham mention a moment ago , and so many other issue that can contribute to the preventable loss of a baby , particularly at full term . I can not stress enough how important that is , and I will keep go on about it until we start to make progress . I will quickly touch on support for parent after the event and the additional mental health support that we could provide . mum and dad experience the loss of their baby will go through the bad time of their life , and everybody will have their own way of process the grief . some people will never get closure on it . as my APPG co - chair the hon . member for North Shropshire mention , at our last meeting we listen to expert in the field of postnatal pathology and highlight the recruitment and waiting - list issue that have be hold some family back from the closure that they deserve . in an inquiry that we hold a couple of year ago , it strike I that a baby bear in Northern Ireland have to be take to Alder Hey Hospital in Liverpool for a post - mortem — I think that be still the case — and it can take month and month before parent get their baby back . some couple wait nearly a year . I think the same may apply to the Isle of Wight , but do not quote I on that . certainly , different part of the country have different set - up . in Cornwall , our baby go as far as Bristol , and at the moment , the wait time for a post - mortem be week rather than month , but , give the story I hear from around the country , it be a postcode lottery that we need to address urgently . I want to re - emphasise that point because it be so important . when a baby go for a post - mortem examination , it be in transit and away from its parent . the parent be often unable to keep track of the remain of their baby and when they will get they back . do the hon . Lady agree that we need to beef up that whole process to give parent the support that they need at such a difficult time ? I agree wholeheartedly . there be a couple of way in which we can do that . one be the roll - out and expansion to all centre of minimally invasive autopsy and other non - invasive technique . not all post - mortem need to be invasive . certainly , there need to be an expansion of placental autopsy — if that be the right phrase — because the cause can often be find that way without the need to keep the baby for an awfully long time . we can do a lot more work in that space . the pathologist we have speak to all want that work to be do , and if they have more time , they would be able to do more research on why it happen . at the moment , a baby could be lose at 38 or 40 week for absolutely no reason at all , and the parent will never find out why . blame can be throw around for the different thing that happen on the day of the birth , but we just do not know the reason , and that be not acceptable in 2023 . we will never find out every reason for every lost baby , but we could do an awful lot well . I be tell by Sands , the baby loss charity , that the shortage of perinatal pathologist have be grow over decade , and in recent year , mutual aid between pathology centre have reduce the impact on the national delivery of service , but that approach be break down as the capacity of overburdened centre to pick up case beyond their own area be dwindle . I can not see that get well without direct help in the near future . we also need to get the basic right . the Royal Cornwall Hospital in Truro have the Daisy suite , which be a separate bereavement suite of room for those who lose their baby . it have its own bathroom and kitchen — not to put too fine a point on it , but be in labour put extra pressure on your bowel and bladder , and you can be sick a lot . be in that space be well not only to face the trauma , but because you do not have to see other parent hold their live baby . that be not available when I be go through the process of lose our baby . there be a girl there by herself — a young mum — who be 38 week pregnant when her baby have just stop move . suddenly , I feel very well support because I have someone there with I . although we have a room to ourselves , I have to troop and up down the corridor to the bathroom , and I see healthy baby , pregnant woman who be glow , and family who be just look forward to take their baby home . that be just too much to process , so I would be very grateful if we could avoid that . I be surprised to hear this week that the Snowdrop unit at Derriford Hospital have only just open , but I be so pleased that parent in Plymouth can now make use of it at a time when they will be at their low . this week , a colleague mention a constituent of hers who have deliver a stillborn baby and be leave on a normal maternity ward — that be unacceptable . the woman be cradle her stillborn baby and people would walk past and congratulate she on the birth because they have no idea that her baby be not alive . she do not know what to say , so she just sort of nod . why , oh why , be that poor woman leave in that vulnerable state ? Most bereavement suite be fund with charitable donation , perhaps with some departmental funding . we need to get the basic right and in place . although we can not get everything right quickly , we can easily make thing well . the Royal College of Midwives " State of Maternity Services 2023 " report set out stark staffing shortage in some part of the country . it acknowledge , however , that the number of people enrol on maternity course be up since 2019 . like I , the RCM support the degree apprenticeship route , and it be fun to see its chief executive talk to a room of midwife who be quite cynical about degree apprenticeship . she be wax lyrical about how much apprentice love they , about how much experience they be get on the ward , and about how they come out of it debt - free and with bag of experience . what I find interesting be that that be a great way to keep experienced midwife on the ward . at the moment , a lot of they be suffer burnout , which be why staffing level be leak most starkly . a midwife in her 50 might have have enough , but if we offer they the chance to come back on the ward for three or four shift a week to help train up new midwife , through live birth and with practical help , they can do that at their own pace , and we would not lose all that experience all at once , so I be a huge advocate of the degree apprenticeship route . Cornwall have start do that . as I mention in the previous debate , Kim o ' keefe , chief nursing officer at the Royal Cornwall Hospitals NHS Trust , tell I in the summer that we now have no midwifery vacancy in Cornwall . not only have every single vacancy be fill but — this be unusual in this country — in Cornwall we have a waiting list of people who want to become midwife . that be testament to the work that the team there have be do . notwithstanding the fact that they be currently do it in a decaying building while they wait with bated breath for our new woman and child ' s hospital , that all play into well outcome for parent and baby in Cornwall in the year to come . there be so much to do in this space and so much more that I could say . we have not even speak at length about dad , but a passion of mine be ensure that dad be look after during and after the loss of a baby . I do not want to get too personal about it without my husband ' s consent , but it be very difficult for he to meet his baby . that be a personal choice . he be never offer any counselling at all . be a fisherman , he just go out to sea . he have deal with it in his own way . my advice to any couple watch this debate who have recently lose a baby be : please , please , please rely on other people outside your relationship — rely on family member , rely on your friendship circle — because although you will come back together , you can not always grieve at the same time and at the same pace . a few moment ago I give my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham the statistic that 50 % of relationship break down . that be because couple want to rely on the person who have always be there for they , but that person be suffer just as much and can not always be there . I do not mean to interrupt the hon . Lady . I be so grateful to she for give way . before she end , I just want to commend she on pick up the mantle as one of the chair of the all - party group on baby loss . I be one of the found member , along with the right hon . and learn Member for Banbury ( Victoria Prentis ) , the right hon . member for Chichester ( Gillian Keegan ) and the former Member for Eddisbury , Antoinette Sandbach . we all get together as parent who have be through baby loss and set up the all - party group . I be not as involve now as I would like to be , but I commend the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) for her energy and enthusiasm in keep it go . while I be on my foot , I have to commend the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) for his absolute , total commitment and drive for the last six - plus year in try to get all element of his private Member ' s Bill through the House — those that have be pass by the House but be still not fully through . I disclose my baby loss in the debate on his private Member ' s Bill in 2017 . I lose my baby 25 year ago , but the first time I talk about it really outside my immediate family be in 2017 — I know the hon . Lady mention that point . I commend he , and I honestly hope that when the Minister respond we will get some good news on some of those final measure . I be really grateful to the hon . Lady for share that with I . I apologise ; I know there would be so many member I miss off my list . it be an open thank you to everybody who set up that appg . I also do not mention the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) , who be here every year for the baby loss awareness debate and constantly remind we of her loss . Baby Loss Awareness Week be not easy . we do it because we want to help other people , but it always bring it back . it be very raw for I on Sunday at the service in Truro and also for my mum . I pay tribute to everybody who work in this space . as I say in the previous debate to my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) , who be new on this journey , you have to look after yourself so that you can look after other people . I will conclude . there be so much we can do here . I be glad the Minister be listen — she always be — and I look forward to work with she and anybody else who want to , because we have to get it right for everybody , everywhere . I thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for bring forward this debate , which have become something of an annual event in the calendar . it be very important that we have it . I want to let the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) know that I agree with everything he say . in term of coroner inquiry for stillbirth at full term , in Scotland we have fatal accident inquiry . although it be devolve , it be one of the call I make when I secure the first ever debate on stillbirth in this place in 2016 . there be still a job of work to do to get we to where we want to be in that regard . I always want to participate in this debate every year because I think it be an important moment — a very difficult moment , but an important one — in the parliamentary calendar . it be significant that the theme this year be the implementation of the finding of the Ockenden report in Britain , because that report be very important . we all remember concern raise in the past about neonatal service in East Kent and Morecambe Bay , and the focus today on the work undertake by Donna Ockenden in her maternity review into the care provide by Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust really matter . Donna Ockenden be currently conduct an investigation into maternity service at Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust . that come in the wake of the fact that in the past , concern have be raise about a further 21 NHS trust in England with a mortality rate that be over 10 % more than the average for that type of organisation , with high than expect rate of stillbirth and neonatal death . to be clear , I do not for one minute suggest that this be not a UK - wide problem , as I know to my personal cost . as the Minister will know , concern remain that , despite a reduction in stillbirth across the UK , their number be still too high compare with many similar european country , and there remain significant variation across the UK . those variation be a concern . we know that they could be , and probably be , exacerbate by the socioeconomic wellbeing of community . we know that inequality be link to high stillbirth rate and poor outcome for baby . of course , the quality of local service be also a huge factor , and this must continue to command our attention . when the ockenden report be publish early this year , it catalogue mistake and failing compound by cover - up . at that time , I remember listen to parent on the news and hear about what they have be through — the stillbirth they have bear , the destruction it have cause to their life , the debilitate grief , the lack of answer and the dismissive attitude of those they have trust to deliver their baby safely after the event . I do not want to again rehearse the nightmare experience I have of stillbirth , but when that report hit the medium , every single word that those parent say bring it back to I . I have exactly the same experience when my son , baby Kenneth , be stillborn on 15 October 2009 — ironically , Baby Loss Awareness Day . that stillbirth happen for the same reason that the parent describe in the wake of the ockenden report . why be we still repeat the same mistake again and again ? I have a theory about that , which I will move on to in a moment . it be entirely down to poor care and failing and the dismissive attitude I experience when I present in clear distress and pain at my due date , suffer from a very extreme form of pre - eclampsia call HELLP syndrome . I remember all of it — particularly when I hear other parent speak of very similar story — as though it be yesterday , even though it be now 14 year later . I hear parent describe the same thing that happen to I , and I be in despair that this continue to be the case . I hope it be not the case , but I fear that I will hear this again from other parent , because it be not improve . I allude to that in my intervention on the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham , and I will come back to it . while I be on the issue of maternal health , expectant mother be not be tell that when they develop pre - eclampsia , which be often link to stillbirth , that mean they be automatically at great risk of heart attack and stroke . nobody be tell they that they be expose to this risk . I do not find out until about five year after I come out of hospital . where be the support ? where be the long - term monitoring of these woman ? this be another issue I have start raise every year in the baby loss awareness debate . we be talk about maternal care . we should be talk about long - term maternal care and monitor the health of woman who develop pre - eclampsia . my hon . friend be make a very personal speech , and I be sure we be all listen intently . will she join I in pay tribute to the wonderful charity that serve my constituency , Baby Loss Retreat , base in Glasgow ? it be help people through the most traumatic of time and make a real difference to family . will she join I and that charity in call on this place and the Government here to make available a register for certification for baby who be lose within 24 week of pregnancy ? that have already be implement by the Scottish Government , and it mean so much to family who be come to term with such loss at a tragic time . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I can see that the Minister be listen carefully , and I be sure she will want to take that back to her colleague in Cabinet who can take the action that would allow parent who want a certificate before 24 week to have one . I also share his view about the importance of the charitable work that be do to support not only mum and dad but grannie and grandfather when a stillbirth happen , provide they with the local , sensitive support that they need , because it be not always forthcoming from the NHS . when people try to regroup after this kind of loss , that ongoing support in the community be really important . we be see too many maternity failing , and now deep concern be be raise about Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust . I understand that the trust face a criminal investigation into its maternity failing , so I will not say any more about it . the problem be that when failure happen — and this , for I , be the nub of the matter — as they do in my case at the Southern General in Glasgow , now rename the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital , lesson continue to be not just unlearned but actively shun . I feel confident that I be speak on behalf of so many parent who have go through similar thing when I say that there be active hostility towards question raise about why the baby die . in my case , I be dismiss , then upon discharge attempt be make to ignore I . then I be blame ; it be my fault , apparently , because I have miss the viewing of a video about a baby be bear — so , obviously , it be my fault that my baby die . it be then suggest that I have go mad and what I say could not be rely upon because my memory be not clear . to be absolutely clear , I have not go mad . I could not afford that luxury , because I be force to recover and find out what happen to my son . I have witness so many other parent be put in that position . it be true that the mother be not always conscious after a stillbirth . certainly in my case , there be a whole range of medical staff at all level gather around I , scratch their head while my liver rupture and I almost die alongside my baby . indeed , my husband be tell to say his goodbyes to I , because I be not expect to live . this level of denial , this evasion , this complete inability to admit and recognise that serious mistake have be make that directly lead to the death of my son and almost cost my own life — I know that be the case , because I have to commission two independent report when nobody in the NHS would help I — be not unusual . that be the problem . that kind of evasion and tactic be straight out of the NHS playbook wherever it happen in the UK , and it be truly awful . I understand that health board and health trust want to cover their back when thing go wrong , but if that be the primary focus — sadly , it appear to be — where be the learning ? perhaps that be why the stillbirth of so many baby could be prevent . if mistake can not be admit when they be make , how can anyone learn from they ? I have hear people say in this Chamber today that we do not want to play a blame game . nobody want to play a blame game , but everybody be entitle to accountability , and that be what be lack . we should not need independent review . health board should be able to look at their practice and procedure , and themselves admit what go wrong . it should not require a third party . mother deserve well , father deserve well , and our baby certainly deserve well . every time I hear of a maternity provision scandal that have lead to stillbirth — sadly , I hear it too often — my heart break all over again . I know exactly what those parent be face , continue to face , and must live with for the rest of their life — a baby stillborn , a much - long - for child lose , whose stillbirth be entirely preventable . I be really grateful to the hon . Lady for the testimony she be give , and I absolutely agree with almost everything she be say . however , do she agree that there be a very big difference between a genuine mistake that a midwife or health professional might make and negligence , and do she think we need to get well at differentiate those two thing , so that healthcare professional be not afraid to come forward and give the right information when an investigation take place ? I absolutely agree with the hon . Lady . the frustration , and the piling of trauma on tragedy , come from the inability to engage at any level when thing go wrong . everybody know that thing can go wrong . People be human and they will make mistake . it be what happen afterwards that matter . that be what matter to bereaved parent . some people talk about workforce pressure , and it have be mention today . however , to go back to the point make by the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , for I and , I think , many of the parent who have go through this , the fundamental problem be the wilful refusal to admit when mistake have happen and to identify what lesson can be learn in order to prevent something similar happen again . to seek to evade responsibility , to make parent feel that the stillbirth of their child be somehow their own fault or , even bad , that everyone should just move on and get on with their life after the event because these thing happen — that be how I be treat , and I know from the testimony I have hear from other parent that that be how parent be often treat — compound grief that already threaten to overwhelm those affect by such a tragedy . I do not want to hear of another health board or NHS trust that have be find follow an independent investigation to have fail parent and baby promise to learn lesson . those be just word . when expectant mum present at hospital , they should be listen to , not make to feel that they be in the way or do not matter . how hospital engage with parent during pregnancy and after tragedy really matter . I have be bang on about this since I secure my first debate about stillbirth in 2016 , and I will not stop bang on about it . I be fearful that thing will never truly change in the way that they need to , and that simply pile agony on top of tragedy . I thank Donna Ockenden for her important work , and I know she will continue to be assiduous in these matter in relation to other work that she be currently undertake , but the health board and health trust need to be much more transparent and open with parent when mistake happen . for all the recommendation of the ockenden report — there be many , and they be all important — we will continue to see preventable stillbirth unless the culture of cover - up be end . when the tragedy of stillbirth strike , parent need to know why it happen and how it can be prevent from happen again . that be all ; a baby can not be bring back to life , but parent can be give those kind of reassurance and answer . that be really important to move on and look to some kind of future . it upset I to say this , but I have absolutely no confidence that lesson be learn in my case , and I know that many parent feel exactly the same . however , I be very pleased to participate again in this annual debate , because these thing need to be say , and they need to keep be say until health board and NHS trust stop cover up mistake and have honest conversation when tragedy happen , as sometimes they will . parent who be bereaved do not want to litigate ; they want answer . it be time that NHS trust and health board be big enough , smart enough and sensitive enough to understand that . until mistake stop be cover up , baby will continue to die , because failure that lead to tragedy will not be remedie or address . that be the true scandal of stillbirth , and it be one of the many reason why Baby Loss Awareness Week be so very important , to shine a light on these awful , preventable death for which no one seem to want to be hold accountable . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) and my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) on secure this important Back - Bench debate to discuss Baby Loss Awareness Week . I thank all those who have speak today on this important topic , include the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) and for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) . I also take the opportunity to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , who have do a lot of work in this area and have share her personal story of child miscarriage , and to my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Hallam , who have be campaign for over three year with Myleene Klass to secure change . my hon . friend be pleased that the Government have respond positively to the issue they have be campaign on , which include a trial of a grade model for sporadic and recurrent miscarriage care at Tommy ' s in Birmingham . I also pay tribute to member of the Baby Loss Awareness Alliance , include Sands , and all the charity involve in that work . they work together to drive through change and improvement in policy , research and bereavement care , and it be because of their great work that Baby Loss Awareness Week be such a great success each year . furthermore , it be important to highlight the instrumental work of the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss . I applaud its work in support the establishment of the national bereavement care pathway , and its promotion of this debate and of Baby Loss Awareness Week in Parliament . as Members may know , I be new to my role as the shadow Minister for woman ' s health and mental health . as such , I want to begin by share my deep sympathy with all parent who have suffer the bad tragedy possible : the loss of their child . it be a privilege to have this opportunity to speak out , raise awareness and support change . member may know a friend , love one or constituent who have face this terrible ordeal , and there be no more devastating experience . that be why this debate be so important . as previous speaker have highlight , we must continue to stand up and champion the cause of Baby Loss Awareness Week to support family deal with the grief of baby loss and to prevent it from happen in the first place . however , I want member to know that , although I be new to this role , like so many I have long be an advocate of tackle the persistent issue that mother in the UK face . constituent have share with I their personal story about their loss and the difficult grieve process that follow . I thank they all for share their story to incentivise change . one constituent who lose her daughter say to I : " my daughter matter . they all do . " I want to share : " you be remember , and you be miss . " when it come to the rate of mortality , it be good to know that level have continually decrease in the last few decade . however , we will all be concern that the rate of this decrease have slow over recent year . overall , the Government have set an ambition to halve the 2010 stillbirth rate in England by 2025 . to meet this target , the rate would need to decrease to 2 . 6 per 1 , 000 birth . instead , last year the stillbirth rate for England be 3 . 9 per 1 , 000 birth , so it will be important to hear from the Minister about her plan to accelerate our progress towards this target . we also know that there remain significant geographical , racial and socioeconomic inequality in these rate . for example , a few year ago NHS England report that there be still a variation of about 25 % in stillbirth rate across England . office for National Statistics figure indicate that this geographical inequality persist . to be exact , the 2021 stillbirth rate for the 10 % most deprive area of England be more than twice as high as the rate in the 10 % least deprive area . that be 5 . 6 stillbirth per 1 , 000 birth in the most deprived area compare with 2 . 7 per 1 , 000 birth in the least deprived . as member would expect , the same shocking disparity occur in the neonatal mortality rate and the infant mortality rate . important work by group already mention , such as five x more , have highlight that stillbirth rate for black baby be twice as high as for white baby , and neonatal death rate be 45 % high . it be therefore clear that there be still so much more work to be do in this area , and I urge the Government to address these inequality and the call for change and improvement to the system . we must accelerate this decline in the rate and tackle the appalling health inequality that our country face . as well as tackle that , we must commit to support parent and family as they face the difficult process of grieve . all family affect by baby loss must receive the good care and support as soon as possible . we know that the soon they get it , the well that care be for they , yet access to bereavement support vary across the country . although most NHS trust in England have join the national bereavement care pathway , Ministers should do everything possible to improve provision . there have also be a longstanding campaign by Sands for access to well - resource continuity of carer model to ensure consistency in the midwife or clinical team . that would provide care for a mother and baby throughout the maternity journey . however , the Government have drop the target for most woman to have access to continuity of care . furthermore , severe staffing shortage mean woman can no long expect to see the same midwife from scan to delivery . on top of that , the Government have reject the Women and Equalities Committee recommendation to set a target and strategy to end disparity in maternal death . the pace of progress in enhance maternity service have be frustratingly slow . they must set clear target to address inequality in maternal and neonatal outcome . by do that , they could ensure the delivery of safe care to all mother and their baby . the opposition welcome the long - await NHS workforce plan , which mirror the commitment we have be call for , and the next Labour Government will deliver on those aim . alongside that , we will reform the NHS so that it be there for people when they need it . we want our NHS back on its foot and fit for the future . I therefore look forward to hear from the Minister about what work she have be do with the NHS , charity and all those campaign for change , and I also look forward to hear what the Department have be and will be do to reduce baby loss and support those grieve . I start by thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) and for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) . I know the hon . member for Sheffield , Hallam could not be here this afternoon , but she have do a huge amount of work over the last 12 month , since the last debate . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , who be the co - chair . this be a fantastic example of cross - party work on such an important issue to woman , but also to man , up and down the country . I pay tribute to the work that those on the all - party parliamentary group do . they be tireless campaigner for improve support for all family who go through the heartbreak of lose a baby . this be the 21st Baby Loss Awareness Week and the eighth consecutive year that this House have hold a debate to mark it . I be proud , once again , to be able to applaud all campaigner , charity and clinician who mark Baby Loss Awareness Week . I will use my time this afternoon to provide an update on the progress we have make since the debate last year and on pregnancy loss in particular . before I do , I want to touch on the comment by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , who be my constituency neighbour as well . I want to apologise because , while we have deliver most of the change in his Act , we still have not publish the consultation on coronial investigation into stillbirth . I know from speak to Bill Kirkup and Donna Ockenden that they be very supportive of coronial investigation into stillbirth . I have meet many parent who have suffer the horrendous experience of lose a baby and who be very supportive of this change . I be hope to come to the Dispatch Box and be able to make a positive announcement . unfortunately , I can not do so this afternoon , but I can assure he that I will personally follow this up after the debate . I hope that , in a very short period of time , we will be able to make a positive announcement for he . the loss of a baby be , tragically , a common outcome . we be improve rate . stillbirth rate have reduce by 23 % and neonatal mortality rate for baby bear over 24 week ' gestation have reduce by 30 % , but that be no consolation to those parent who experience baby loss when it do happen . we know that , too often , when baby loss occur , the experience of parent and family be not what it should be . that be why the independent pregnancy loss review publish its report in July , and the Government be support the recommendation in that report to make sure that every trust offer a consistent , compassionate service . the review make it clear that baby loss be too often treat as a clinical event , with emotional support fail or fall short in a number of area . that be why it be so important that we reintroduce compassion as an element throughout the experience . let I take one example that be show in the pregnancy loss review . I be horrify to read story of woman miscarry at home and store their baby ' s remain in their fridge in a Tupperware container because they be wait day for their early pregnancy loss unit to reopen . the review put it down in black and white that major improvement be need and that be why we be support the recommendation . the review make 73 recommendation for change within the NHS and wide society , and we have already start action on many of those . the first be touch on by the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) : the use of baby loss certificate for baby who be bear before 24 week , who currently can not be register . we announce in July that we would be roll out baby loss certificate . they will be retrospective . there be no time limit on apply for they . [ Official Report , 7 November 2023 , Vol . 740 , c . 1mc . ] they will be voluntary , so parent do not have to apply for one if they do not feel that they wish to . we be go through service user testing with family to ensure that the system we set up work for they . follow testing , there have be some service specification that we need to improve to ensure that the process run smoothly . it will be run on the gov . uk website . once we have those safeguard in place for both parent to be able to register on a certificate , we will announce the roll - out date formally to this place . it be important that parent who want to acknowledge the loss of their baby before 24 week be able to do so . we also look at the sensitive disposal of a baby after pregnancy loss , many instance of which happen at home rather than in hospital or clinical setting . it be important that woman have access to proper collection facility , so we have take on board the recommendation on create a bespoke receptacle to ensure that foetal remain can be collect and store with due dignity . to do that we have be engage with charity , woman and healthcare professional and we aim to finalise a specification by February . we be also work with the Human Tissue Authority to review and update its guideline by March next year . NHS England be also consult on a clear pathway to ensure that woman can always have access to cold storage in NHS facility , too . we have also hear from woman about the difficulty they often experience in get help during a miscarriage . in partnership with NHS England , we be explore how 111 and ambulance service can block - book appointment with early pregnancy assessment unit , so that woman in need can be direct straight to they if necessary ; rather than go to A & E or other healthcare professional , they can go straight to those unit , where care can be provide with dignity and privacy . the review also propose introduce grade care for woman who suffer one , two or more miscarriage ; the shadow Minister touch on that issue . we have take on board those recommendation because currently , woman have to suffer three miscarriage often before they get help . Tommy ' s miscarriage centre at the woman ' s hospital in Birmingham have launch a three - month pilot of that grade model , so that after one miscarriage assessment can be deliver . I have be to the unit to see the amazing work it do and I be look forward to its result . it will look at that grade model and be able to present to we the difference that that will make to woman experience baby loss . that will help to prevent further pregnancy loss in future . another recommendation make by the pregnancy loss review concern the fact that family be often force to grieve in public space . I want to be clear about this . very often , the pregnancy facility be inadequate . my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth talk about the Daisy centre that be available in her area ; it be not available when she tragically have to go through her experience . in many place , clinic , unit and building be not able to meet woman ' s need . therefore , NHS England be survey pregnancy facility and will report back by the spring to ensure we can invest in those facility to improve the outcome and experience for woman and their family . we also need to improve bereavement support for both woman and their family . that be another key area we be look at . member touch on the number of midwife there be . I be pleased that in Cornwall there be a waiting list for training but across England there have be an increase in the number of midwife : there be 14 . 2 % more than in 2010 . we be engage in a number of route into midwifery . we have the degree apprenticeship now but we also have the nurse conversion course , which be popular with nurse who perhaps want to work in midwifery instead of nursing . those route be not just get more midwife into practice but retain they . that be a key element to be able to deliver all the ask in the pregnancy loss review . we be also look at how we support people in the workplace . it be important that woman and family who experience baby loss be able to take the time off that they need . as a first step , the Department have sign the miscarriage association pregnancy loss pledge and we encourage other organisation to do so . we could cover a number of issue that be raise in the debate . I just want to be clear with the House about all the issue that have be raise . with the ongoing maternity inquiry , we have set up a national oversight board so that we can pull together all the recommendation and finding , whether from Donna Ockenden , Bill Kirkup or other inquiry that have happen in the past , and make sure that every single maternity unit across England be respond to they , whether they be relevant to their unit ' experience or not . we want consistent , good maternity care across the board , whether that be the Birthrate Plus model for make sure there be more midwife on unit , make sure the capital framework of the unit be able to help support woman who lose their baby , or ensure that the culture of change that Bill Kirkup touch on so much in his review be roll out , so that woman have a compassionate experience when they go through the devastating loss of a baby . it be our duty to support family who experience the devastating loss of a baby , and this Government remain committed to implement all the independent pregnancy loss review ' s recommendation . at the debate next year , I hope that my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham will have a more positive comment to make and we will have address his concern in detail , but also that we will have take a step forward on many of the issue raise today and on some of the work we have start with the pregnancy loss review . I start by thank the Minister . she have always engage constructively and proactively with the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss , and I welcome her commitment to the pregnancy loss review and implement its finding . it be clear that we still have some way to go , and I be sure that this time next year we will be ask for further update on progress against the ockenden review , but I thank she for her constructive approach . on the contribution make by other member , the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) make a good point highlight not only the impact of baby loss on dad and the need to support they , but the wide issue of help people who have lose their baby to understand why their baby die , whether that be perinatal pathology or get a coroner ' s inquest into what happen . that be so important , and I thank he for raise that issue . the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) and for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) share their personal experience , which be extremely powerful , and I be extremely grateful to they . they both highlight important issue , such as the national bereavement care pathway and its roll - out , the importance of continuity of carer and the appropriateness of physical facility to look after mum and dad who have just lose their baby . finally , I want to touch on the culture of cover - up , which have come up in every review , and the importance of focus not just on clinical professional , but on management culture go forward . in conclusion , I thank everybody who contribute . it have be a useful way to recognise Baby Loss Awareness Week . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Baby Loss Awareness Week . black History Month Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) I begin by say that I find myself in an unusual situation today , as I have participate in a number of debate — this be my third — and it have be great get to know the Minister a bit well . I thank Mr Speaker for select this important Adjournment debate and ensure that we can once again debate Black History Month during the month of October . black History Month be an extremely important annual event , but I strongly believe we should be talk about black history week in , week out , and not just once a year . the theme of this year ' s Black History Month be " salute our sister " . I begin my speech , as I have do in previous year , by highlight and celebrate a number of black Britons who have be under - appreciate and under - recognise in our national discourse . these black Britons be great Britons , and we should celebrate they as such . again , I pay tribute to Akyaaba Addai - Sebo , co - ordinator of special project for the Greater London Council , who organise the first recognition of this month in 1987 . with this year ' s theme , I would like to highlight the crucial role that black woman have play in shape history , inspire change and building community . I have previously mention Mary Prince , who be the first woman to present an anti - slavery petition to Parliament and the first black woman to write and publish an autobiography . a petition be propose to place a statue of she outside the Museum of London Docklands . to this day , there have be no statue . I also pay tribute to some of Health Service Journal ' s top 50 black figure who be lead the way in English NHS and health policy . Karen Bonner , one of a handful of acute trust chief nurse in the NHS , have be describe as get a great deal of attention for her " tremendous leadership " and " inspirational talk " . she have work with Prostate Cancer UK to raise awareness of the disease in the black community . one in four black man will get prostate cancer in their lifetime . black man be more likely to get prostate cancer than any other man , who have a one - in - eight - chance . we do not know why black man be more likely to get prostate cancer , but it be one of the easy cancer to treat if detect early . it be good practice to have early testing and screening . Dr Jacqui Dyer be a director of Global Black Thrive and one of the key voice call for the mental health system to recognise the different experience of black , asian and minority people . Yvonne Coghill assist organisation in work towards workforce race equality and be a special adviser to and board member of the NHS race and health observatory . Marie Gabriel be one of the most experienced black NHS non - executive in the country . Dr Lade Smith , the president of the Royal College of Psychiatrists , be the first black woman to hold the role in the college ' s 182 - year history and only the fifth woman . I can not mention all 50 , but they be all inspiring . I suggest that everyone check they out . as well as pay tribute to under - acknowledge black Britons , I want to use the debate to highlight some of the inequality that continue to affect black people in this country , which the Government must do more to address . first , there be black maternal health . I pay tribute to five x More and the Motherhood Group for their outstanding campaigning on that . I be sure the Minister agree that they have do so much to bring it up the political agenda . their work have highlight the stark disparity in outcome that black woman face when give birth in this country . black woman in the UK be four time more likely to die while pregnant , while give birth or as new mother than white woman . I commend Sandra , the founder of the Motherhood Group , for host the first ever black maternal health conference in the UK with the aim of rebuild trust between the community and service provider and explore the role of racism , human right and structural change and how to engage effectively with black mother . I also commend the founder of five x More , Clo and Tinuke , who hold a woman ' s health summit to drive change . I be sure that the Minister see the publication last week of the MBRRACE mortality and morbidity confidential inquiry report , which show that there have be no change in the shocking statistic . labour be committed to tackle that by train more midwife and health visitor , incentivise continuity of care and improve course content on the presentation of illness and pain among different group . we will ensure that the NHS be squarely focused on tackle this shocking disparity . put simply , give birth as a black woman be considerably risky than for woman of other ethnicity . the Government know that that inequality exist , and now be the time for action . I turn to another issue that affect black woman and girl : the lack of specialist training for police and other agency support black woman who be victim of domestic abuse . I play tribute to Sistah Space , a domestic abuse charity support woman of african and caribbean heritage . it set up a petition to introduce Valerie ' s law , which be name in memory of Valerie Ford , who be murder by her former partner in 2014 , alongside their 22 - month - old daughter . she have previously ask the police for help after he ex - partner threaten to burn down their house with she in it . it be record only as a threat to a property . while that story be shocking , sadly , it be not uncommon . too many black woman do not get the support they need because the police be not train to spot and deal appropriately with domestic violence in black community . that include thing such as miss sign of domestic violence on black skin , and the lack of cultural knowledge about how threat can be communicate . we need mandatory specialist training for the police and other on all that and more . I hope the Government will seriously consider that as part of a renew focus on violence against woman and girl , give recent event . I have raise this issue a number of time in Parliament , and be successful in get a former Minister to agree to a meeting , follow a debate on support for black victim of domestic abuse on 28 March 2022 . that meeting take place , and a number of agree action follow . I meet the representative of the petition recently , who sadly inform I that nothing have follow since . I would be grateful if the Minister commit today that she or one of her colleague will take up this matter as soon as possible . the hon . Lady raise some incredibly important point . I have a large number of black constituent . what national effort need to be make to achieve the thing that she be set out so clearly ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention and for the water . the Government can do a number of thing , which I will come to . I would like to bring the House ' s attention to the large ever survey undertake for black Britons , carry out recently by the Voice newspaper and Cambridge University . I host the publication of the " black british Voices " report in Parliament . the datum I see be shocking but not surprising . it show that people have serious concern about racism across education and the workplace . the report reveal that 41 % of more than 10 , 000 black Britons survey identify racism as the big barrier to young black people ' s education attainment . of those survey , 95 % believe that the national curriculum neglect black life and experience . I be sure that member agree that those statistic be alarming . furthermore , few than 2 % believe that educational institution take racism seriously . in the light of the datum , more work need to be do to address those issue . I be worried about young black people grow up feeling that the system do not really work for they , particularly when look at opportunity that may arise . I want to talk about the 75th anniversary of the Empire Windrush ' s arrival in Britain , when half a million people come to the UK after the second world war . it be important to reflect on the shameful Windrush scandal and assess what progress the Government have make to right the wrong they have perpetuate . I be proud to represent a diverse constituency and to champion the contribution of the caribbean community , but the Government ' s treatment of the Windrush generation be one of the most shameful episode in our post - war history . the Windrush generation be victimise under the hostile environment policy . People have be let down by the compensation scheme that be not fit for purpose and betray by the Government not implement all the recommendation of the Wendy Williams lesson learn report . I have raise that with the Government a number of time and I be disappointed that there have not be a huge amount of progress in address it . I be proud that Labour will help to deliver justice for the Windrush generation by look to overhaul the Windrush scheme and put it outside Home Office control , and enact all the recommendation of the Wendy Williams review . I want to return to the ask that I make of the Government during the Black History Month debate last year . the first be for action to diversify the curriculum . as I have say previously , I want our child , whether they be black or white , in every corner of the country , to well understand our national history and culture . that include talk about the good and the bad — the range of experience that people have have . I be pleased by the progress be make by the Welsh Government ; Wales have become the first UK nation to make the teaching of black , asian and minority ethnic history and experience mandatory in the school curriculum . I believe that black history be british history and need to be teach all year round . my second ask be for the implementation of a race equality strategy and action plan . there have be much discussion about the inequality and structural racism in our country . the Government have do some work , particularly in relation to the Sewell report , which be see as controversial , but they have not always be see to go far enough in term of concrete action . a race equality strategy and action plan , which be desperately need , would cover area such as education , health and employment , and should include specific proposal to address well - know inequality such as the ethnicity pay gap , unequal access to justice and the impact of the pandemic on black people . I support the Labour party ' s policy on that . in the current climate , as we come to a general election , I do not want any political party to see certain ethnic minority group as a tool in culture war . we need to make sure in the run - up to the election that everyone play a role and that no one feel that they be be target because of their ethnicity . I be grateful , once again , for the opportunity to speak in this debate . I be grateful to be able to contribute to this Adjournment debate to mark Black History Month . I congratulate the hon . member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Abena Oppong - Asare ) on what have be a marathon afternoon for we both . it be lovely to finish the afternoon by respond to such an important debate . as Minister for Women , I be pleased to see that one of this year ' s theme for Black History Month be " celebrate sister " . that give we a chance to recognise the important contribution that black british woman have make in the story of this nation . from individual such as Mary Seacole , a trailblazing nurse who serve during the crimean war , to woman from the Windrush generation who help rebuild this country after the second world war , these pioneer woman fight for civil right and equality , play an essential role in shape the diverse and inclusive nation we be today . as a government , we be commit to ensure that Black History Month be , as the hon . Lady say , not a once - a - year event and that school be equip to teach black history all year round . how our past be teach be crucial to ensure that every pupil , regardless of their background , feel a sense of belong to this country . we also want to celebrate the fact that our country be more diverse than ever before . accord to the 2021 census , 18 % of people in England and Wales be now from an ethnic minority group , compare with just 14 % in 2011 . integration be also increase , with the mixed - ethnicity population in England increase by 40 % in 10 year ; 2 . 4 million household be now multi - ethnic . accord to some of the late datum , contain in a report produce recently by the newspaper the Voice in conjunction with Cambridge University , although we be see more diversity , especially in community , there be concern about the way people feel . may I urge the Minister to look at the report and think about what action can be take in that regard ? I have not see the report , but I shall be happy to look at it , because the question of how people feel be important , in term of both their experience and how it shape their future . it would of course be naive to say that tolerance and inclusion be the universal experience of everyone who live here , which be why , in July 2020 , the then Prime Minister establish the Commission on Race and ethnic Disparities . we publish our response to the Commission , " Inclusive Britain " , in March last year . that response set out a groundbreake action plan to level up the country , with three clear aim : to build a strong sense of trust and fairness in our institution — the hon . Lady touch on that , in relation to maternal health in particular — to promote equality of opportunity , encourage aspiration and empower individual to reach their full potential ; and to encourage and instil a sense of belong to a multi - ethnic United Kingdom that celebrate its difference while embrace the value that unite we all . the landmark " Inclusive Britain " strategy set out 74 action to tackle entrench ethnic disparity in health , education , employment , policing and criminal justice . the strategy aim to increase trust and fairness , promote equality of opportunity , nurture agency , and foster a great sense of belong and inclusion . in April we publish an update for Parliament , set out the excellent progress we have make in deliver our ambitious strategy . this be a cross - Government approach , and we have deliver a number of change already . there be new guidance from employer on how to use positive action in the workplace . we have publish our ambitious school White Paper , and provide targeted support for pupil who need it the most . we have establish an Inclusion at Work panel to promote fairness in the workplace , and we be improve the stop and search process through new training for police officer . all of that will make a difference to the life of black community . eighteen month on , we have already complete more than half those 74 action , and we be proud to be deliver on our promise to all our citizen . I appreciate that the Government be take step to try to address this issue , but give that this be the 75th year of the Windrush generation , I should like to hear more about what they be go to do for , in particular , those who have contribute so much to the NHS , have work in Transport for London , and have help our public sector in general . they be be massively leave behind , and the compensation scheme have not move forward at all . the hon . Lady raise that point in her speech . we want to make sure that this be a fair scheme . the Home Office have reduce the time take to allocate a claim for a substantive casework consideration from 18 month to less than five month . however , I fully understand the point that the hon . Lady have make , and I be happy to raise they with Home Office colleague , because we fully understand the frustration and the upset that have be cause . it be great that the case workload have be reduce , although it need to be speed up . however , I want to ask about the Wendy Williams review , which have be in place for some time . be the Minister able to give we any firm commitment on its full implementation and any timescale apply to that ? I be not able to give a firm commitment from the Dispatch Box this afternoon , but I can update the hon . Lady , and I shall be happy to write to she with some firm timeline after the debate . I understand that Windrush be a particularly sensitive area , but I reassure the hon . Lady that we be make progress across the board , particularly on the school curriculum . our model history curriculum will help pupil to understand the complex nature of british history and their place within it . the hon . Lady touch on maternal health , and the evidence and statistic show that woman from black , asian and working - class background have poor maternity outcome , which be why I be so pleased that we set up the maternity disparity taskforce . my co - chair Wendy Olayiwola be a trailblaze black woman , and she follow the fantastic Professor Jacqueline Dunkley - Bent , who transform how maternity service respond to black woman in particular . we establish the taskforce in February 2022 to tackle disparity for mother and baby , and our work be currently focus on pre - conception health and wellbee because our understanding be that disparity be often bed in by the time a woman be pregnant . the way to reduce those disparity be to ensure that woman have help and support before get pregnant , as that be the good way to ensure a safe outcome during pregnancy and birth . the taskforce meet in September , just a few week ago , and we be bring together expert from across the health system , include some of the charity that the hon . Lady talk about , to explore and consider intervention . we be look at set up a pre - conception toolkit , and those charity , include five x More , be feed in what they think will make the great difference for woman across the board . we know from their testimony that previous poor experience of healthcare service often prevent black woman from engage with healthcare service in future . it be important that we break down those barrier and change black woman ' s experience of NHS service . our Online Safety Bill will soon become law , allow we to hold social medium company to account in clamp down on online racist abuse . this be just a taste of the work we have do and will continue to do to make sure the inclusive Britain commitment be implement . the hon . Lady touch on a meeting back in 2022 . I be not the Minister at the time , but I be happy to follow up and let she know the outcome . if it have not be action since that meeting , I will follow it up . I be grateful for the point raise by the hon . Lady throughout this debate . I share some of her concern , particularly on maternity service , and we be committed to try to transform the statistic to make sure that black and asian woman in particular , have well maternity outcome . across the board , the Government be commit to continue to work towards a society in which every individual , regardless of their background , have the opportunity to succeed . we be not there yet , as the hon . Lady so eloquently point out , but I have every confidence that the decisive action we be take as part of our inclusive Britain strategy will help we to achieve that goal . question put and agree to . House adjourn .