thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate . it be an honour to follow the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , have serve with his brother on my local council 20 year ago . I wish to add to his tribute to Sir David Amess and Jo Cox . I would like to start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir David Evennett , who represent our local area for 33 year , first in the former Erith and Crayford constituency and then in Bexleyheath and Crayford . he take a keen interest in education , serve twice as a parliamentary private Secretary in the Education Department . he be elect with the other Sir David in 1983 and they be close friend , and it be apt that this debate be name after Sir David Amess . Sir David Evennett be the only Conservative Member of Parliament to lose their seat in 1997 and then regain it at the second attempt in 2005 , which say a great deal about his tenacity , and I wish he and Marilyn a happy and healthy retirement . I note that when Sir David Evennett make his maiden speech in 1983 , he follow and compliment the then Member for Sedgefield , who of course go on to be a great Prime Minister for 10 year , so I say to the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford , please feel no pressure in the year ahead . at this election , my constituency of Bexleyheath and Crayford gain part of the Northumberland Heath and West Heath ward that be previously represent by my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) . give the new boundary , it be a privilege to follow former member who have represent part of my constituency , include Jennie Adamson , Norman Dodds , Jim Wellbeloved , Sir Ted Heath , John Austin , Nigel Beard and Teresa Pearce . it be an honour to have be elect to this House and I be indebted to those constituent who have send I here , and I shall work tirelessly for they as well as for those who do not vote for I . I have live in the London borough of Bexley all of my life , attend local school and serve as a councillor for 20 year . my constituent include former school friend , former work colleague , my parent , who be here today , and my grandmother . my constituency be locate at the south - east tip of London , with my constituent look both west into the capital and east across the Kent boundary . my family root be like those of many of my constituent : family from south London who move a bit far east , with my maternal root in Southwark and my paternal root in Plumstead . we in the constituency be proud of two amazing heritage asset : the grade 1 list Hall Place , build in 1537 ; and the Red House , design by Philip Webb and William Morris in 1859 . we be also proud of our contribution to the hit of my childhood , have be the birthplace of Boy George and Kate Bush . we have an industrial past , with the Thames at the north of the constituency , but today most job be in manufacturing , retail and hospitality . however , that past help change history and ensure that Britain be the country it be today . the Vickers work be locate in Crayford for 101 year , from 1884 , and during the world war they manufacture the Vickers machine gun , aircraft , naval gun lay equipment , and the casing for the Barnes Wallis bounce bomb of Dambusters fame . famously , it be where the british aviator John Alcock and Arthur Brown manufacture the first Vickers Vimy bomber , with the first 12 manufacture in Crayford , while it be the thirteenth , manufacture elsewhere , which in 1919 make the first non - stop transatlantic flight . that history of our constituency continue today with my constituent across Barnehurst , Bexleyheath , Crayford , Northumberland Heath , Slade Green , and the small part of Abbey Wood , Belvedere , Erith and well that I represent , work hard and deliver for our country . every day I speak to local resident who work in the public sector , and I know how grateful their neighbour be for the work they do and on which we all rely . my constituent rely on train service provide by Thameslink and Southeastern , which have a depot in Slade Green where they maintain roll stock and train staff . it be those railway worker who keep my constituent on the move . those commuter work in the financial and professional job that London rely on , but also , importantly , in shop , restaurant and hotel , keep London ' s economy move . and if we take a quick glance around any road in my constituency , we see a variety of white van and black taxi , demonstrate that my constituent be the worker that London rely on to get they from a to b , and the builder , plumber , brickie and lift engineer who will help we grow our economy . but there be one set of worker on which our community really do rely : our volunteer and carer . today , my day start as many other ' will have do : I lift my child from her bed ; I change her nappy , dress she , feed she and tidy her hair ; and then I ensure that she be in her wheelchair and ready for her transport to collect she for school . our child be twin but will lead very different path in life . one talk of a future in work and the journey she will make ; the other , after many year of work from professional , can now manage to talk , but her language be limit to about a dozen word . the eld of our twin have cerebral palsy and a range of complex disability . like other carer , the great concern that my wife and I have be what will happen to she when we be go . many of we know what it be like to have to work and educate our child at home for month during the covid pandemic . in our case , this be stretch by the fact that one of our child require full - time care , our family network and carer be not allow into our home , and my wife be undergo chemotherapy at the time — she be now thankfully recover , due to the fantastic work of our incredible NHS . I can assure Members that in my time in this House I will be the great of champion for carer and the disabled , because I really do know the challenge that family in our position face on a daily basis : have to fight the local authority because either it have not transfer the money to pay the carer , or it be not pay at a rate that meet minimum wage requirement ; the constant battle to ensure that our child have a wheelchair that work ; the argument over which part of the public sector will fund the person require to cut our child ' s food at lunchtime because the education , health and care plan be not clear on the matter . I could take the easy path and sit at home rather than be here take difficult decision to fix the inheritance bequeath to this Government , but I believe that this House really do need people like I , who know how badly reform be need in the special educational need system and for the right of carer . my constituent , like I , rely on volunteer and charity across the constituency . I be not go to name they , because as I be bind to miss one out , but those charity know that I have the great admiration for they , have work alongside they for many year . they make such an important contribution across Bexleyheath and Crayford , and I look forward to continue to work with they , our faith group , business and my incredible constituent to deliver the change that our community and our country so desperately need . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to start by congratulate hon . friend and other hon . member on some fantastic maiden speech today , but also on the many I have hear since the election in July . they have make I proud to be british . however , notwithstanding those incredible speech and hear about the amazing and beautiful place across the UK , I would still argue that Southampton , the place where I be bear and breed , where I have always live and which I have the honour to represent as the Member of Parliament for Southampton Test , be the good city on earth . listen , I know it be a bold claim and many will have hear I make it before , but Southampton be where the world meet Britain . we have help shape the world and we continue to do so , from the pilgrim who set sail from Southampton on the Mayflower over 400 year ago in search of a new life in America , to be the home of the Spitfire , which help to defeat fascism in Europe during world war two . it be the University of Southampton that invent the internet as we know it today . and be those achievement not enough , Southampton also give the world the fishfing sandwich — you ' re welcome . we be a city rich with culture , from our medieval wall that protect our nation in time of conflict to our award - win park , most notably Southampton common , which be the green lung of our city , and our renowned art gallery and our theatre , the Mayflower . Southampton be where Jane Austen be school and live , and it inspire some of her masterpiece . even today , Southampton continue to produce great talent , from the singer Craig David to " MasterChef " winner Shelina Permalloo . Southampton be also a world - lead maritime city that be integral to the UK economy . the port of Southampton handle over £ 71 billion - worth of trade every year , while also serve as the busy cruise port in Europe . we be a city of political first . many will know that our country ' s first Prime Minister of colour be from Southampton . I be the first female Sikh council leader in the UK . and the former MP for Southampton Test , my good friend Dr Alan Whitehead , be the first , and I believe the only politician , to have a song dedicate to they by none other than Led Zeppelin — clearly , they have a " whole lotta love " for Alan . now , pay tribute to Alan Whitehead as my predecessor in this Chamber be an honour . he have be one of those unique politician who be universally like , value , and respect on both side of the House . his knowledge on climate change and green energy be unparalleled . he be essentially the Taylor Swift of the energy sector . [ laughter . ] I ' m pleased you get it . he leave behind a legacy , not only of shape Government policy on energy right now but of benefit future generation , for which we all owe he a huge debt of gratitude . as I approach my 40th birthday in the come day — [ hon . member : " surely not ! " ] I know ! it be incredible to think that Alan have serve our city for as long as I have be alive , first as leader of the council and then as a Member of Parliament . he have do so with unwavere dedication , integrity and kindness , mean that he will be sorely miss by many . I be acutely aware that I have very big shoe to fill . Alan , and the former Member of Parliament for Southampton Itchen , John Denham , have both be instrumental in help I to reach this place today . indeed , John , on a visit to my school fair , award I first prize , when I be only eight year old , for my fancy dress costume . I do not know what it be about I dress up as a clown that make John think that I might one day be destine for a career in politic . the truth be that I owe so much to my incredible city and the remarkable people of Southampton who give I the opportunity to be where I be today . Southampton have make I who I be . as someone who grow up in one of Southampton ' s most deprived community , I see at first hand the importance of community and service to other . Southampton have a unique ability to come together when it be need most . I have be inspire time and time again by the many example set by our faith organisation , local business and incredible local charity , from Love Southampton , a faith - base initiative , to business such as the Saints Pub on the Millbrook estate , and charity like Yellow Door , no Limits and Saints Foundation . all work tirelessly to make Southampton a well place , and remind we that when we lift our poor and most vulnerable in society , that lift everyone . our city ' s diversity have make I realise that we be the great place we be because of it — historic , but modern , dynamic , creative , and so much more . I may stand here as our constituency ' s first female MP and MP of colour , but I know that there be many more before I who have pave the way . I feel that responsibility here as well , and feel their weight on my shoulder . as a graduate of Southampton ' s two world - class university — the University of Southampton , and then Solent University — I know that they put our city on the map , and that both be institution that inspire , innovate and push boundary . they have help I , and our city , to be more forward - think and outward - look . as a Saints fan , I must confess that support our team be a bit of an emotional rollercoaster , which have teach I , above anything else , enormous resilience . we be thankfully back in the premier league , but whether we be win or lose , together as one city we march on . I be incredibly proud of Southampton and everything it represent , but like any major city , we know that we face challenge . one in every three child live below the poverty line , and life expectancy can drop by 10 year simply by be the wrong side of a bridge . public service be on their knee , and many family I represent be struggle . that be why I want to be part of the renewal that this Labour Government be promise , and want to rebuild the service on which my community rely — from a decent home become a basic human right to people feel safe in our street and neighbourhood again ; from have access to healthcare when it be need to protect our environment and river . another key priority of mine be to ensure that we create opportunity for all , and include the exclude . we know that child from poor area or ethnic minority background , or those with disability , be not less talented ; they be simply give few opportunity . Britain ' s talent be spread evenly across our community and our country . if we be to realise our potential , we must ensure that those opportunity be spread more evenly too . these challenge will not be easy to resolve , but the people of Southampton , like so many across Britain , be rightfully proud and ambitious for themselves , their family and their country . that be why we need a Government who be equally ambitious , and commit to unlock the potential and opportunity of place like Southampton . I know that , as a city , we stand ready to seize this moment to thrive and grow — and the drive , passion , compassion , togetherness and determination of the people of Southampton will see it through . let I end by say directly to they : I will be forever grateful to you for make this daughter of a market stall trader , who grow up in our inner city on free school meal , your Member of Parliament . you be the very good of I , and I be a product of every opportunity that you have give I . I shall never take that trust for grant , and I will spend every day , in here and beyond , champion our great city , fight for it , and help we to reach our enormous potential . I congratulate all hon . member who have deliver their maiden speech . they have all speak about their constituency with wit , passion and enthusiasm , and I have no doubt that they will be strong representative for their constituent . it be a real privilege to deliver my maiden speech during the Sir David Amess general debate . Sir David be a stalwart Member of this House and be barbarically murder in the line of parliamentary duty . as I stand here in this most historic of Chambers , I look over to Sir David ' s memorial plaque behind the Government Benches and , as I start life as a Member of Parliament , I hope I can be a strong voice and a man of action for my constituent , as Sir David be for his . I start with a heartfelt thank you to the people of Exmouth and Exeter East , for they be the reason I be here . they have put their trust in I to represent they as the first Member of Parliament for our new constituency . it be a responsibility that will always weigh heavily on my shoulder . I also say thank you to my family and campaign team , who have be bastion of love and support through the long journey to this place . for the record , I want it to be know that get marry during the early stage of a general election campaign make for an interesting start . thank you to my wife for be a constant voice of reason and my rock throughout . although Exmouth and Exeter East be a new constituency , it be create by amalgamate area from three previous constituency , of which East Devon be by far the large contributor . refer to all my predecessor , as be custom in a maiden speech , may , therefore , mark I to the Speaker ' s Office as someone who do not abide by time limit . I say this because all three of my predecessor have make significant contribution to local and national life . Simon Jupp , the former Member for East Devon , work hard for his constituent and campaign relentlessly as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the great south - west . he help to secure investment into the region and always champion our part of the world . I consider Simon to be a friend , and his contribution to this House will be miss , as will his encyclopaedic knowledge of local Devon cider . Exmouth and Exeter East also incorporate one ward each from the Exeter and Central Devon constituency . the new hon . member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) no doubt give the right hon . Sir Ben Bradshaw the respect he deserve in his maiden speech . however , I would like to pay my own tribute to Sir Ben , and I know that his judgment and leadership will be miss by the Labour party . lastly , I have be bless to inherit the beautiful Exe valley from my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , who continue to serve and lead in this House . his loss be my gain , but I will ensure that I diligently represent the good people of the Exe valley as he have for the last 14 year . for those who have not have the good fortune to visit Exmouth and Exeter East , please allow I to indulge in a Cook ' s tour of my new constituency , and to give member a flavour of the geography , the history , the settlement , the people and the organisation that make my part of the world so irresistibly enchanting . start at the mouth of the River Exe , go out to the heathland of Woodbury Common and finish in the countryside above the city of Exeter , the constituency of Exmouth and Exeter East have it all : beautiful beach ; serene , open and arable landscape ; the eastern part of a thriving city ; vibrant town ; and picturesque village . many part of my new constituency have be inhabit for several millennia , with area such as Topsham be settle by the celt , turn into a port by the Romans and expand by the Saxons . possibly our most famous resident have be Sir Walter Raleigh who be an Elizabethan statesman , soldier , writer and explorer . although he achieve much in his life , I will do my good not to meet the same fate , which be to be try for treason before meet his end outside this Chamber in Old Palace Yard . we have some fantastic organisation across Exmouth and Exeter East , such as the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , which work tirelessly to keep local and tourist safe in the water around the constituency . we have global expert work to advance the frontier of knowledge on weather and climate at the Met Office ' s headquarters . we have Clinton Devon Estates , which be ably responsible for the stewardship of much of the land in the southern area of the constituency . as an example , the Clinton Devon Estates team , work with the Environment Agency , recently demonstrate to the world how to proactively regenerate land by complete the low Otter restoration project . as be to be expect , we be fortunate to have some of the good farming produce anywhere in the country . for those look to visit , I highly recommend stop in for a pasty at Darts farm or Greendale farm shop . however , the organisation that have the most special place in my heart be Commando Training Centre Royal Marines . for decade , the training camp in Lympstone and the area of Woodbury Common have be the proving ground for all wannabe Royal Marines , and for those from across our armed force who aspire to become commando . have endure Royal Marine commando train over 16 year ago , I be happy to announce that I have learn , once again , to enjoy spend time on Woodbury Common , without fear of be cold , wet , hungry and cover in gorse thistle . the Royal Marines be a proud organisation , in its 360th year in service to our country . sadly it have become increasingly rare for a former Royal Marine to enter this House as a Member . however , Royal Marines must share the same tendency that bus be afflict by : none turn up for eon , then four turn up at the same time . although the other three former Royal Marines , the hon . and gallant Members for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) , for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) and for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) opt to join the party now in government , I know that the kinship that bind Royal Marines together through share adversity will benefit this House , and , I hope , provide combative but constructive debate . while Exmouth and Exeter East have much to be celebrate , it also have its fair share of issue . from an aged and degraded sewerage network to antisocial behaviour , there be many issue that my constituent have place trust in I to help improve . for too long we have build new house in the area without deliver appropriate and corresponding infrastructure . I fear the new Government ' s top - down housing target will far compound that issue , and I will do all I can to ensure that the right mix of house be build , in the right place , with the right infrastructure and public consultation . I be also deeply concerned that large part of Exmouth and Exeter East will be tarmacke over within one generation . of course we need new home for the next generation , so that they can live near their friend , family and work , but we must have a temper approach and ensure that we do not overdevelop and destroy our countryside , and the culture of our historic town and village . there be also area that I will work hard to improve across Exmouth and Exeter East , such as social care provision , post - 16 education scheme , job opportunity , transport link , and support for farmer and those in rural affair . it be worth voice that this new Parliament bring the wind of political change to Devon and the wide south - west of England . as a new MP , I be open and willing to work with fellow south - west mp , regardless of political affinity , to ensure we drive as much investment and opportunity as possible to our part of the world , in a join - up way . in an increasingly connected world , I believe our mps must have a firm understanding of the national and international issue that affect we , and most importantly how these issue affect our constituency . for much of my adult life , I have fight hard in several organisation to keep our United Kingdom safe and prosperous , both in the physical and the digital environment . we be on the precipice of a new industrial revolution . frontier technology , such as artificial intelligence , supercomputing and nanobiotechnology , will radically change our world and the relationship we have with it . it be imperative that the new Government understand these issue and work across the public and private sector to ensure that our United Kingdom remain a technological global leader . there be no get away from the fact that the international system be become more volatile . it be deeply sad that conversation about international conflict be no long hypothetical . War have break out across multiple global region , and we must act without delay to increase defence spending to meet the threat that be clearly present . anthropogenic climate change have long cease to be purely an academic debate — it be visible and happen now . we must continue to work closely with international partner to reduce our overall global carbon emission . it be beyond a faux pas to speak in communist tone from the conservative Benches — I could risk make the same treasonous mistake as Sir Walter Raleigh . however , there be modern resonance in Lenin ' s purport quote : " there be decade where nothing happen ; and there be week where decade happen . " in isolation , any of the point I have raise have the ability to cause mass societal and environmental change . when decade happen in week become the new normal , we must keep pace to ensure the United Kingdom remain strong , ally and ahead of the pack in an ever - change world . my final message be to the people of Exmouth and Exeter East who send I to this House . I promise that I will always fight for we , and that I will represent we to the good of my ability , while I have the privilege of serve as their Member of Parliament . I congratulate the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) on his maiden speech . it be a joy to hear a little about his constituency . I will begin by thank my predecessor as Member of Parliament for Mid Derbyshire , Pauline Latham , for all she do to serve its resident . Pauline represent the constituency from its creation in 2010 until she stand down at the end of the last Parliament . prior to 2010 , the community that make up the constituency be part of other constituency , serve by many illustrious former member , perhaps most notably George Brown . Pauline champion many important cause in this place , include international development . she also lead the charge to increase the marriage age from 16 to 18 , a lasting change that reduce the risk of young people be subject to coercion or abuse . I send Pauline my every good wish for her next chapter , and I look forward to work with she on area of share concern . a small but important part of my constituency be serve by the former Member for Derbyshire Dales , Sarah Dines . I thank she for her service and I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) will give a more extensive tribute to she in his maiden speech . one of the most exciting priority of this new mission - lead Government be their commitment to harness the power of nature to deliver clean power and , in turn , to deliver energy security , new job and cheap bill . there be a history , stretch back over 250 year , of use nature to power the economy in the Derwent valley , which run through Mid Derbyshire . the world ' s first water - power mill be build on its river bank to spin cotton , make the valley the birthplace of the industrial revolution . among its early pioneer be Jedediah Strutt , a hosi and cotton spinner from Belper . through an entrepreneurial approach , Strutt progress from humble beginning to become one of the lead industrialist of his age . along with Sir Richard Arkwright and Samuel Need , he be a father of the modern factory system , which be adopt around the world . although the Derwent valley no long hum to the clatter of looms or the rhythm of the people who operate they , it continue to harness nature to sustainably power home and business through the hydroelectric scheme it support today . however , despite be the east midland ' only UNESCO world heritage site , home to some of the country ' s most beautiful landscape and extensive biodiversity , some of the valley ' s iconic industrial building face an uncertain future , due to their poor state of repair and lack of occupation . we must save these building . they have incredible potential , include to support local economy , increase job opportunity and alleviate the housing crisis . they be also vital to tell Derbyshire ' s story , and the story of our country . celebrate and preserve the past be not frivolous or sentimental nostalgia . it be vital to our sense of place and our perception of who we be today , what we share with other and what make we distinctive . know where we have come from also shape where we venture next ; that be as true of building , countryside and historic site as it be of our politic . it be also true of our art and culture . the creative industry be among Britain ' s most important export . they be a huge part of our economy and boost our standing around the world . they be a vital catalyst to express and explore idea and bring community together . they have be common to every culture since primordial time . music , the visual art , dance and drama provide an opportunity to walk in somebody else ' s shoe . they build a more inquire society and help we to understand who we be and what it might be like to have somebody else ' s experience . they be also a vital educational tool , but in far too many case they be not a staple in school or something that people have an adequate opportunity to engage with throughout their life . I look forward to make the case , throughout my time in this place , that this be an underused opportunity for our country . as we face the huge challenge ahead and return the country to economic stability and renewal , opportunity must be our watchword : opportunity to help people get ahead in life through good job , for example in the small and medium - sized business that proliferate in my constituency or at place like SmartParc in Spondon , where food production be be reimagine ; opportunity to benefit from exceptional education and training , such as be be offer at Rolls - Royce and at the University of Derby in my constituency ; opportunity to enjoy good health and community safety through renew public service ; and opportunity to live in a greener world through the new Government ' s commitment to the environment and to tackle climate change . be give the opportunity to serve the people of Mid Derbyshire be the privilege of my life , and I thank everyone who support I along the way . I thank the voter of Mid Derbyshire : whether they vote for I or not , I be here to serve they . I also thank my many friend and family , who have be a great source of strength on the journey . I be determined to do the people of Mid Derbyshire proud , and to support the new Government to deliver the change that my constituent tell I they need and that they rightly deserve . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I thank hon . member who have make their first speech today for set the bar so high ? I hope I can live up to the standard that they have set . I be send to this place by the constituent of Lichfield , a constituency that include not only the city itself , but the town of Burntwood and around 40 village and hamlet in the great county of Staffordshire . I be proud to serve the area that have be my home since before I know to call anywhere home and where I hope it will be for many , many more year to come . my predecessor in this House be Sir Michael Fabricant . he be knight in 2023 for political and public service after more than 30 year represent first the constituency of Mid Staffordshire and then Lichfield in this House . thirty - two year in total Sir Michael serve , and I think that would be a number to which we would all aspire . should I be fortunate enough to still be in this place in 30 year ' time , Madame Deputy Speaker , I can only hope to have such a head of hair . it be , however , to longevity that I wish to turn now . although I have receive advice from some colleague not to mention the Domesday Book , I can neatly sidestep that as the record history of my constituency date back some 1 , 000 year before William the Conqueror to the roman invasion and the establishment of Letocetum , a roman fort and later settlement near the crossroad of Watling Street and Rykneld Street in my constituency . the crossing of those two road remain an important place throughout the Roman and Saxon period , and , in the 7th century , Chad of Mercia establish a cathedral and diocese in Lichfield , which still exist today . in just over a week ' s time , I will be proud to be in attendance at the installation of — I think — the 58th dean of Lichfield cathedral . the right Reverend Jan MacFarlane will be the first woman to hold that post and will not only smash a glass ceiling , but be an excellent advocate for the cathedral and the Church in the local community and beyond . the 7th century be also noteworthy for the burying of the Staffordshire hoard , which be uncover in Hammerwich in my constituency in 2009 , near that same crossroad of Watling Street and Rykneld Street . the large collection of Anglo - Saxon gold ever find , the hoard be already have , and will continue to have , a significant impact on our understanding of the people of these isle , before there be an England , a Scotland , a Wales or a Northern Ireland . let I move on from the 7th century . over the come year , the city would continue to flourish and establish itself as a religious and ecumenical centre , although much of the surround area maintain its rural and agrarian aspect for many century to come . in this time , the area do produce innumerable great life , and , while they be far too numerous to mention all of they here , I should note Gregory King , the world ' s first economic statistician ; Elias Ashmole , whose collection found the ashmolean museum , the first of its type in the UK ; David Garrick , the noted theatre innovator and manager ; the physician Erasmus Darwin , a found member of the Lunar Society who have a rather famous grandson ; the poet , Anna Seward ; Thomas Gisborne of Yoxall Lodge , an abolitionist and a close associate of William Wilberforce ; the painter John Louis Petit , who be have a wonderful renaissance in the understanding of his work ; Frederick Oakeley , who translate the word to " o come all Ye Faithful " in Lichfield cathedral ; and , of course , Samuel Johnson , a man of letter and the author of the first dictionary of the english language . Johnson ' s heir , Samuel Barber , be a freed slave who would go on to run a school in Burntwood , decade before Tom Jenkins would begin teach in Teviothead in Scotland , and who would also serve as a dozener in local government in Lichfield and almost certainly become the first black man to serve in local government in the UK . before I move on from some famous people from around the area , I should mention a local success story in Sophie Capewell . Lichfield ' s golden girl bring home not just a gold medal from Paris this year , but a world record as part of Team GBs fantastic effort . in do so , she end my reign as the most successful former pupil of my old school , Nether Stowe in Lichfield , and although I have hope to hold that title a little long than 32 day I be happy to be disappoint on that point . return to my historical tour of Lichfield and its surround area , we reach the early and mid - 19th century , and the town of Burntwood , a conurbation of mining village , which grow up some four mile from Lichfield and have a similarly proud history . its most notable resident be the fundraiser and campaigner Stephen Sutton , who raise million for the Teenage Cancer Trust despite his diagnosis . we lose he far too soon , at the age of just 19 . he be make an mbe for his fundraising , so it be more than fitting that Burntwood town council remember he through a student award name in his honour . not to be outshone by the cathedral down the road , Burntwood also take its place in ecclesiastical history when , in 1883 , St Anne ' s church in Chasetown become the first in the country to have electric lighting . today , the people of Burntwood still maintain a close - knit community , typical of former mining area . that be show by the great example of the Spark caf é and Burntwood be a Friend , which have do so much to step in to replace service cut during 14 long year of Conservative Government . if we be discuss Burntwood , we can not forget the giant - kill exploit of Chasetown FC in the FA cup of 2007 - 08 . at some point , I will forgive the Members for Cardiff . Burntwood be not the only part of my constituency that have a mining history . the village of Handsacre also more than play its part in power the industry of the 19th and 20th century . it be also the village where my old man teach his first lesson as a probationary teacher in the 1970 . the suggestion that his Geordie accident be in part responsible for his hiring in a school build to teach the child of new arrival from the north - east remain suspect , if unconfirmed . mining be not the only industry that find its way to my part of Staffordshire . many of we will recognise the name Armitage Shanks , but few will know its link to the village of Armitage , just a short trip up Rugeley Road from Handsacre . as the new Government focus their legislative agenda on growth , I remind colleague that while many of we may have already spend a penny with Armitage Shanks , they be all welcome to visit and spend many more in the come year . all this industry mean that the canal come to my constituency . the Coventry canal and the Trent and Mersey canal be still navigable today , and the work of the Lichfield and Hatherton Canal Restoration Trust should be commend , as it aim to restore that link as a green and blue way over the come year . have touch again on transport , I will complete the circle and return to the crossroad that make Letocetum . watle Street , or the A5 , as it be now know , and Rykneld Street , the A38 , be major transport artery that link my constituency together , and link it easily to the rest of the country . the A38 in particular have help to establish a logistic centre in the village of Fradley on the site of the former RAF Lichfield . fan of the BBC ' s " Bargain Hunt " will know Fradley well , give the regular appearance of Richard Winterton and his auctioneer on that show . I hope that I can get as much airtime as they do . slightly far up the A38 be the National Memorial Arboretum near Alrewas — a wonderful venue , as the site of national remembrance . I advise every single person to make a visit there to remember , not just in November but on any day . I be sure that in the come month the Secretary of State for Transport will grow tired of my lobbying about the need for a railway station to serve that amazing location . on a dissimilar note , the first Travelodge in the UK be open slightly up the road some 39 year ago , near the village of Barton - under - Needwood , although that village should be much well remember as the home of the Holland tug of war team . found in 1970 , the team have represent England at numerous international tournament , and even bring home a silver medal from the 2010 world open championship . it be to this constituency that I will return during the recess . I look forward to speak to my constituent about transport , access to healthcare , education , health and care plan , and many other issue that be on their lip . I look forward to bring those story back to this place , so that I can continue to advocate on my constituent ' behalf . I be extremely honoured to be give my maiden speech in a debate name after the late , great Sir David Amess . I be grateful for this opportunity . I thank all member who have give their maiden speech today . I enjoy the lot of they . it have be wonderful to learn about the many famous former resident of Lichfield , and I wish the hon . member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) the good of luck in add his name to that pantheon . special mention go to the hon . member for Southampton Test ( Satvir Kaur ) for provide the answer to the pub quiz question : what link Craig David and fishfinger sandwich ? we all know well now . I be the first non - Conservative MP for West Dorset in its 139 - year history — something I be extremely proud of . that notwithstanding , I will start by pay tribute to my conservative predecessor . Chris Loder ' s family have farm West Dorset for over 100 year , and he should be deservedly proud to have serve as its MP . we be both successor to Sir Oliver Letwin , an MP who be so well respect by the resident of West Dorset that they would stop I at every opportunity to tell I what a fantastic constituency MP he be . I can only hope to leave this House as fondly remember in the area as he be . although each of we have be proud to be the Member for West Dorset , we be not West Dorset ' s proud member . that honour go to the Cerne Abbas giant , a 55 - metre - high chalk fertility symbol whose presence stand proud over the Cerne valley for all to see . West Dorset be the good constituency in the country . I know that for a fact because the town of Bridport , Dorchester , Lyme Regis and Sherborne have , at various time over the past few year , be describe as the good town in Britain by no less an authority than the Dorset Echo , a newspaper that share my unrivalled objectivity when it come to the virtue of West Dorset . West Dorset be home to the world - famous Jurassic coast , a UNESCO world heritage site , where Mary Anning help to revolutionise our understanding of prehistoric life . she be long overlook by historian , but her contribution be now recognise with a beautiful statue in her home town of Lyme Regis . at the other end of Chesil beach be the Fleet lagoon , the UK ' s large saltwater lagoon , on which sit the Abbotsbury swannery , which be home to over 600 swan and be a fantastic day out , especially if you love swan . as well as the swan , one can also see , rather incongruously , a prototype of Barnes Wallis ' s bounce bomb . quite what the swan of Abbotsbury think about their home be use as a replica for the Ruhr dam be still unknown . sadly , our beach and river see over 45 , 000 hour of sewage release into they last year . the River Lim , which exit at Lyme Regis , be declare " ecologically dead " due to the level of pollution in it . it be shameful that I and my family , before we go swim at the nearby beach of West Bay , must log on to the Surfers Against Sewage app to check whether it be safe to swim . I commit during the campaign to use my seat in this House to pressure the Government to take serious action on the issue of sewage , and I promise to do so . West Dorset be hardy country . Thomas Hardy be renowne the world over for his poetry and novel , such as " far from the Madding Crowd " and " Tess of the d ' Urbervilles . " his work famously deal with theme of melancholy , sadness and moral conflict — emotion that I be sure be familiar to member vote in the Tory leadership contest . in his lifetime , he be also highly critical of the decline status afford to rural Britain . for even more than its beautiful town and coastline , West Dorset be a constituency define by its countryside — a landscape manage and maintain by our farmer and food producer , who be the beat heart of our rural economy . we desperately need a national food and farming strategy that will deliver sustainable living for our farmer . far from be cut , the farming budget must be significantly increase if conversation about food security be ever to be anything other than fine word . as an environmentalist , I be delighted that we now have a Government who seem to understand the importance of tackle the climate crisis and who recognise the vital part that renewable energy will play in achieve net zero . have spend a large part of my career in renewable energy , I will be urge the Government to go far and fast if we be to avoid the bad ravage of the climate emergency , which be already unfold . the Liberal Democrats will continue to champion the need for action in this House . on the subject of my party , I pay tribute to our party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) . I and many of my colleague owe our seat in no small part to his fantastic , if unorthodox , campaign . I must also pay tribute to another leader of the Liberal Democrats . my political journey begin in 2015 , with Nick Clegg ' s resignation speech . he say — I summarise here — that in the face of the politic of identity , nationalism and " we versus they " , it have never be more important to keep the flame of liberalism alive . it be true then and it be true now . I know then that it be not enough to stand on the sideline and watch the country that I love so much be eat by the self - interest of those who seek power only for power ' s sake or for self - enrichment . sadly , over the summer we see that there be those who would seek to use the misery of people who have come here seek refuge to further their own aim . I mention that because it will come as no surprise that the Morellos be not originally from this island . the Morellos of Italy become the Morellos of Spain — with apology to both country for my pronunciation — before come to Britain at the beginning of the 20th century . one of my forebear die fighting in world war one for the country that adopt he , and be bury in a Commonwealth war grave cemetery in northern France . my own father serve in the Royal Navy . even more than Morellos , my family be Mazierskis . my maternal grandfather come here from Poland at the end of the second world war , flee another type of political tyranny . he arrive as a child , speak no English . he become an engineer and set up a build company . his child become nurse , teacher , artist and architect . his grandchild be doctor , civil servant , lecturer and environmentalist , and one of they stand here today as a Member of Parliament . in my experience , immigrant do not forget the debt they owe the country that offer they a future . we must not let hate win . we must champion hope . that be why it be more important than ever to fly the flag for liberalism , liberal value and a rule - base international order . I would also like to mention my amazing wife . she be far , far cleverer than I and would make a far well politician . without she , I certainly would not be here today , not just because of the love and support she have show I , but because it be her suggestion that I run in the first place — something I find myself remind she with increase frequency . finally , I thank the voter of West Dorset for put their faith in I . it be a huge honour to represent they , and I look forward to do everything I can to deliver a well deal for West Dorset . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden contribution in this debate . I pay tribute to the member on both side of the House who have make their maiden contribution , include the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , who give we an illuminate insight into what we could hope to see in his constituency . I also pay tribute to those who know Sir David Amess for their moving contribution . I be extremely proud to be the first Labour Member of Parliament for Altrincham and Sale West , in no small part because of the brilliant team of local volunteer who work on the campaign and the support of my wonderful friend and family . I also thank my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , who be bear in my constituency and be such a valuable friend to I during the campaign . at this early stage in my contribution , I want to pay tribute to my predecessor , Lord Brady , who represent the people of Altrincham and Sale West for 27 year . I thank he for his service to his constituent and for his kind word to I follow my election . I think one of my constituent sum it up well . while I be knock on door in Hale during the election campaign , a woman — and the whole House will be relieve to know that I will not attempt to impersonate she — say of Lord Brady , " the thing about Graham be that whether you agree or disagree with he , and frankly I usually disagree with he , he be always unfailingly affable . " I hope to one day be describe by my constituent in a similar fashion . of course , as the result of a rather interesting few year for the Conservative party , he might well come to be remember as one as the more consequential chair of the 1922 committee . I be sure the new chair , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , be hope for a slightly quieter few year . judge by the friendly and collegial way in which that party ' s leadership contest be shape up , I have every confidence that that will be the case . when I meet new member from all side of this House and tell they I be fortunate enough to represent a constituency as beautiful as Altrincham and Sale West , in many case I get a nagging sense from they that my mere presence in this House , represent where I do , be symptomatic not just of the level of change at the last general election , but of a Labour party that be able to appeal to every part of our country and every section of society . however , the reality be that my constituency be extraordinarily diverse in almost every regard . within easy reach of the city of Manchester , it be a place of business , thrive small and medium - sized enterprise and entrepreneurship — include the spectacular market in Altrincham — but Wythenshawe and Trafford general hospital be also major employer . it be an area with ten of church , four synagogue and the Altrincham and Hale Muslim Association , and it be where many from Hong Kong have choose to start a new life away from tyranny and repression . yes , it be a part of the world where many people be do well for themselves and for their family , but it also have an estimate 3 , 000 child grow up in poverty . what unite the constituency and make it such an extraordinary place be that it have such a strong sense of community , participation , and everyone pitch in to play their part . I have see that at Altrincham football club , a brilliant community club with amazing grassroots initiative , and which in 2019 become the first team in England to wear a shirt inspire by the rainbow flag to show their support in the fight against homophobia . I have see it from staff and volunteer at the Garrick Playhouse , who work tirelessly to put on a comprehensive series of play and production , and I have see it at Trafford South foodbank , which work across the constituency to provide for people in need . it be able to do what it do thank to the remarkably generous donation of local people . however , all too often , organisation such as that foodbank be have to go above and beyond in the most challenging of circumstance to stop people fall through the crack , because as a country we have fail to provide people with the security in work that they need ; we have fail to provide the economic stability and certainty that business need in order to invest ; and we have fail to address the long - term challenge our country face . that be why Labour be elect : to fix what have become break , and to offer hope and renewal . that be why the people of Altrincham and Sale West send I here : to cut waiting time across our national health service , include at Wythenshawe and Trafford general ; to clean up our badly polluted river and stream ; and to make sure people can feel safe on our street by tackle crime and antisocial behaviour . have work on a national campaign against the violence and abuse that shopworker receive , I know how important it be that we clamp down on crime against public - face worker , and I know that this Government will act . have change our party so that we could be give the extraordinary opportunity we have to change our country , that be the sort of tangible change to the life of people in Altrincham and Sale West that we must achieve . I be look forward to work to deliver that change in the year to come and show how , even in difficult time , Government can still be a force for good . that be the very least that the people of Altrincham and Sale West , and of our country , expect and deserve . on that note , second only to Bridgend , Chatham and Aylesford be one of the most beautiful constituency in the country . [ laughter . ] create in 1997 from the previous Rochester and Chatham , Mid Kent , and Tonbridge and Malling seat , we have a rich legacy of excellent and outspoken parliamentarian , include Dame Peggy Fenner , Andrew Rowe , Julian Critchley , Jonathan Shaw and the remarkable Dame Tracey Crouch . what can I say ? Dame Tracey be well know for her warm personality and diligence . she be engage , and her constituent speak well of she on the doorstep and in the 14 year she represent the area . I be also reliably informed that , unlike I , she have a legendary involvement in the parliamentary football team . I be reliably inform , again , that her tackling skill be well know , and that no one ever try to take the ball from she when she be in in full flight . on a serious note , she have do outstanding work on the football fan - lead review , she lead on anti - gamble legislation when she be in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , and she have leave a deeply inspire legacy for young woman in sport in particular . I salute her record and her fortitude . my constituent embody aspiration and determination . although I be raise in the city of Medway , I have be actively involve in Chatham since 2001 . it be a dynamic and diverse area , with hard - work , direct and down - to - earth people . the constituency be truly beautiful , with stunning panoramic view from Blue Bell Hill over the weald of Kent . on a clear day one can see many other constituency , include Tonbridge , Sevenoaks , Maidstone and Malling and Canterbury , and many walker and hiker find entertainment along the historic Pilgrims ' way . the seat also contain some of the early human settlement history , with the megalithic structure of Kit ' s Coty hark back to neolithic time . it be identify with numerous artefact of historical significance , although I must say to the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) that there be — perhaps — no chalk figure of historic stature in my constituency . the part of my constituency that will be most familiar to Members be Chatham , whose historic legacy be know across the world . its significance as a commission dockyard have be recognise globally , and its long - stand naval tradition date back to Henry VIII and the Tudor period . the area retain that naval link until the 1980 , when the dockyard be closed , and it still have that proud naval tradition . I be reliably informed that the Resolute desk in the Oval Office , in the heart of western democracy , come from HMS Resolute , which be construct and support in Chatham , and many of our fine naval tradition have come from that location . Chatham and Aylesford do , however , face significant challenge . many area , particularly urban Chatham , experience poverty , and , accord to figure from the House of Commons Library , 17 % of child be live in poverty . issue such as crime and antisocial behaviour have be exacerbate by cut in neighbourhood policing and early intervention programme . I be committed to work with all our community to address those challenge . , and it be on that note that I want to pay particular tribute to many of the charity and other organisation that serve my local community . they include the Arches project in Luton , the dementia awareness group , Street Angels , Royal British Legion Industries and our Poppy Appeal volunteer , who go out every year to collect fund for veteran and our military community . I believe that community wealth building should be central to our approach to government . by focus on wealth creation , we can drive and support local business and revitalise our town centre . my hon . friend the Member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Naushabah Khan ) have do excellent work in that neighbouring seat to revitalise Gillingham town centre , and I will seek to replicate it , work closely with council leader across Medway , Tonbridge and Malling and Kent county council to advance the agenda . in recent week I have hear many inspiring speech from new member , but what unite we all be a shared ambition to effect positive change for our community and our country . I be honour to serve , and I pledge to work across party line to ensure economic security and improvement in our public service — and I will do so in a friendly , open and approachable way . the Government must of course deal with the £ 22 billion in - year deficit , and we must work to secure our economic prosperity to ensure that all our people , especially our young people , have the skill that will give they a future . I be deeply honour to represent the constituent of Chatham and Aylesford . thank you for call I to make my maiden speech , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) on his contribution . it be interesting to hear about the challenge face industry in his constituency . it be with immense pride and honour that I stand here today to give my maiden speech as the first ever female and first ever Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for Epsom and Ewell , which also include the town of Ashtead and Leatherhead . this moment be not just about my election victory , but part of a long journey of progress that start with brave woman like Emily Wilding Davison , a suffragette who give her life for the cause of woman ' s right . in 1911 , she famously hide within the wall of this very building , the Palace of Westminster , to declare it her residence on the night of the census . just two year later , she make the ultimate sacrifice , lose her life at the Epsom Derby while campaign for woman ' s suffrage . it be remarkable that today , 101 year after her pass , we now have 263 woman in this Parliament , more than ever before . that progress be a testament to her legacy and the relentless effort of organisation such as 50 : 50 Parliament , whose support in get I here I be personally grateful for . I be delighted that there be now progress towards establish a woman ' s caucus in Parliament . I want to take this opportunity to congratulate Lord Grayling , my predecessor , on his move to the other place , and to thank he for his 23 year of dedicated service to Epsom and Ewell . his service to the community be well recognise , and I look forward to build upon that work , while bring fresh perspective and new energy to our local and national challenge . the community of Epsom and Ewell pride itself on strong local value , resilience , and on a rich sporting and creative history . it be home to the world - famous Epsom Derby . we have the University for the Creative Arts , Laine Theatre Arts and many sporting club , include three run club and two football club . it have several vibrant economic hub , with many successful business , large and small . but it be the people who make my constituency special . whether it be our small business , voluntary group or the diverse family who have make the area their home , Epsom and Ewell represent the good of what a community can be when it work together . Epsom and Ewell be a beautiful place , bless with remarkable green space and historical significance . we be fortunate to have three site of special scientific interest : Ashtead Common , Priest Hill and Stones Road pond . we also have beautiful green space , such as Horton and Nonsuch park , Epsom Downs and the Surrey hill , an area of outstanding natural beauty . one site that hold special meaning for many be Langley Vale , which be use to train over 8 , 000 soldier during the first world war and where Lord Kitchener famously inspect the troop . today , it stand as a centenary wood , a place of reflection with beautiful sculpture honour our military past . as someone who proudly serve in the Army , in the Royal Military Police , I be deeply move by our community ' s tie to the armed force . my own military experience include serve in Iraq during Operation Telic IV in 2004 , where I be responsible for retrain and mentor the iraqi police force in Maysan province . it be a volatile and dangerous region at that time and it be not an easy tour . we come under fire on a regular basis and it be make hard with the knowledge that , just a year before my arrival , six of my RMP colleague be kill in Majar al - Kabir . the coroner find that they have be give inadequate radio and ammunition , so it be no surprise that we be give more ammo and weapon when I arrive . I want to ensure that our armed force continue to have the right resource to stay safe in their duty as this Government conduct their spending review . I hope the Secretary of State for Defence will bear in mind the effect that cut can have in the field . Lord Darzi ' s report about the NHS be publish today , so it be apt that I share a personal experience that underscore my commitment to improve healthcare service in Epsom and Ewell . in 2007 , my six - week - old son suddenly turn blue in front of I , while a health visitor be visit . I call 999 . it be a terrifying moment , and before I know what be go on , my living room be pack with paramedic and there be equipment everywhere . I be tell to pack a bag and shortly afterwards we arrive at A & E . the crash team be there and my baby boy be surround by 20 consultant try to figure out what be wrong . I stand there look on , helpless . the doctor manage to stabilise my son and move he to the amazing Evelina hospital , just over the river from Parliament , as they do not have the specialist equipment need . he go into the paediatric intensive care unit . every bit of his skin , even his head , be cover by some sort of patch or monitor to try to establish what be go on . the consultant inform we that he have bronchiolitis and that it would be touch and go that evening . thankfully , my son survive the night and we spend over a week in intensive care , as the amazing doctor work to save his life from bronchiolitis . I see at first hand the critical importance of high - quality emergency care . it be my mission to make sure that the resident of Epsom , Ewell , Ashtead and Leatherhead have access to the good possible healthcare . our community be promise one of the 40 new hospital . that commitment must be fulfil . we be part of the Epsom and St Helier University Hospitals NHS Trust . St Helier hospital be struggle , with crumble facility and overstretched staff . we have few hospital bed per capita than in many other nation . ceiling be fall in and building be condemn . the need for a new hospital be urgent , and I look forward to discuss it with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care in the come week . the House will be pleased to know that my son be now a big , strong 16 - year - old , challenge his parent as every teenager do . Epsom and Ewell be home to two significant river : the Hogsmill , a relatively pristine chalk river whose beauty be immortalise by Sir John Everett Millais in his iconic paint " Ophelia " ; and the River Mole , which be one of the most polluted in the country . Thames Water ' s negligent handling of our water resource have lead to more than 8 , 000 hour of sewage discharge into the River Mole in the first six month of this year alone . Thames Water be cripple by be billion in debt , and water bill keep rise . executive bonus be hand out as the sewage be pour out . this mismanagement of our water be unacceptable . I call for great regulation and accountability and for a sewage tax to protect our river and water infrastructure . Epsom and Ewell have affluent area , but we also face stark social inequality . there be part of my constituency in which food bank have become a lifeline for struggle family , and our local housing waiting list have grow to more than 1 , 300 household . food bank be not the norm ; they be a sign that society simply be not work . I be concerned that even more of my constituent will be use they this winter as they struggle without the winter fuel allowance . the stark contrast between wealth and deprivation be a reminder that we must do more to support those who be most in need . I be incredibly grateful for the work of the Good Company , the Leatherhead community hub , local faith organisation and all the volunteer and local charity who work tirelessly to provide for our community ' s most vulnerable . as the Member of Parliament for Epsom and Ewell — a constituency that stretch from Worcester Park and Stoneleigh in the north to Ashtead and Leatherhead , the gateway of the Surrey hill , in the south — I want our community to thrive economically , socially and environmentally . my constituency have inspire literary great such as C . s . Lewis and Jane Austen . I believe that it can continue to be a place of innovation and inspiration . I thank my parent for their support throughout the year . I thank my husband and three kid for their support and their leaflete prowess throughout my campaign . most importantly , I thank my constituent for place their trust in I . I be committed to repay their trust with service , dedication and determination to make Epsom and Ewell a well place for everyone . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to address the House for my first speech , and for make time available for so many of we to make our first speech today . I particularly congratulate the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) : the story about her child in intensive care touch I very deeply , as an intensive care practitioner . I can see that she be go to be a fantastic advocate for our armed force and for the thing they need to serve the country well . in pass , I must mention Lord Darzi ' s report , which my right hon . friend the Health Secretary present to the House today — not because of the content of the report , but because in 2015 I be honour to become a Darzi fellow . Lord Darzi set up his fellowship programme to bring clinician like I , a nurse , into clinical leadership , to ensure that the NHS and the health system be lead by clinician . I be not sure that the plan be to get we all into the Houses of Parliament , but I be the first Darzi fellow here and I think there will be quite a few more . I be honour to speak in this debate in memory of Sir David Amess , whose constituency of Southend West can be see from mine of Sittingbourne and Sheppey — we see the beautiful vista of Southend , which be now a city , across the Thames . over the past few month , during the campaign and afterwards , there have be several time when I have look over at Southend and take a moment to reflect on the manner and the tragedy of Sir David ' s death and what it mean for all of we serve here in the House . it be a great blessing of my constituency that , amid our busy , traffic - laden town , we have these beautiful vista down the Thames and the Medway estuary . we have broad , flat salt marsh meet big sky — place that you can escape to and properly reflect on everything that matter in life . during the election campaign , I ask my constituent what they value most in the constituency , and it be that proximity to nature that keep come up . they mention the wide - open estuary water of the Thames and Medway — several of my Medway colleague be in their place today — the many site of special scientific interest and the nature reserve at Elmley . now that member be spend time in London , they might want to pop down for a hot yoga weekend — it ' s a whole thing . however — so many member have say something similar when describe their seat — that be only half the story . the other half be the still proudly industrial town of Sittingbourne . its character and location challenge many people ' s preconception of Kent . sittingbourne ' s twin on the Isle of Sheppey , Sheerness - on - Sea , have busy dock — dock that , hopefully , will become only busy as the opportunity for growth , construction and new green industry be realise by this Government . Sittingbourne and Sheppey be perfectly locate to take advantage of all that development . my job be not only to argue for our place in the rebuilding of Britain , but to ensure that my constituent see real social , economic , health and wellbeing benefit from the opportunity . the factor that lead to the foundation of our town be lay century ago fit the way that technological , industrial and transport strategy be all point now . sittingbourne straddle the main road from Dover to London and be connect directly by water , road and rail to Sheerness dock on Sheppey . this be what make the Saxon king of Kent grab the land and claim it as their terra regis . this be something that the resident of Milton Regis be very proud to remind I of — that it be a royal town in the middle of Sittingbourne . it be those same route that allow the town of Queenborough to develop as a major port . tuck behind Sheppey be the safe waterway — and major trading route — from London through to the continent and the rest of the world . those route be also what enable Sittingbourne to develop a major brick - building industry in the 19th century . it produce more brick and have more people work in it than the pottery in Staffordshire . those brick be largely use to build London . many town house in the 19th century , Buckingham Palace and many of the building on this parliamentary estate will have be build with the clay and brick from Sittingbourne . our water and transport give we the opportunity to produce green energy and bring about green way of travel . that will benefit Sittingbourne and Sheerness in the future . Peel Ports at Sheerness be a major importer of construction material for the south of England . with investment to restore our rail freight link and an ambition to once again use our water route , we can be at the heart of a green revolution . but there be more to a place than land and water . a place be make by people . what will ensure that the people of my constituency get the benefit that they be cry out for as a result of growth and rebuilding be the strength of our local community and the collective action that come from grassroots organisation . as we move more service out of hospital to the community and try to mend the broken sense of cohesion in our society , these community actor will be key . there be great organisation , include seashell nursery in Sheerness , which hold true to the course take by sure Start centre , with their now prove benefit , although they be sadly under threat of closure , and Wiggles child ' s nursery , which have partner with Sheppey ' s Range Rovers football club to create a multi - generational facility that will massively boost the health of the neighbourhood . there be also people come together , on the island and the mainland , to form progressive man ' s mental health peer support group , include Men - Talk . UK in Sheppey and Sittingbourne . a team of volunteer resurrect the Sittingbourne carnival this year after several year ' gap to ensure that its tradition of more than 130 year do not die , but instead will go from strength to strength . there be Swale food bank , and underpin so many of the voluntary organisation in my constituency be Swale Community and Voluntary Services , which foster lot of organisation , help they to get start , get organise and help their community . part of the reason for that depth of community co - operation be that my constituency face the challenge of have some of the most deprived part of Kent and the south - east . unfortunately , a big driver for that be the very geography that otherwise bring in so many benefit and opportunity . as Sheppey be an island , with only one point in the west that connect to the rest of England , there be pocket of isolation , and when the two bridge go down , as sadly they have all too often of late , people can not get off Sheppey to go to work or school , or on to Sheppey to deliver service in Sheppey ' s hospital , school , dock and three prison . all that impact not just Sheppey but Sittingbourne and the surround village . both my predecessor work to overcome those entrench challenge . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Gordon Henderson , who many here know well , for his work persuade his party when they be in power to invest in technical skill training on the island and expand Sheppey College . my labour predecessor , Derek Wyatt , secure the funding for a permanent fix bridge to the island , the Sheppey crossing , to overcome the problem of the old Kingsferry bridge , which be only a few metre away and have to be raise several time a day to let ship through , to link the paper mill and the dock . both of they believe in the enormous potential of the area , but there be a lot more to do . it be a professional habit of intensive care nurse that we be inveterate fiddler and fixer . we like to help people , and we like to keep busy do so . now that I have swap adjust ventilator setting and syringe driver for work in public policy , however , I need to find new way to keep busy . I will keep work with people in Sittingbourne and Sheppey to bring they together , and will work collaboratively at try to fix thing for the well , but there be one thing in the constituency that I assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will not be fiddle with : the SS Richard Montgomery , a wrecked world war two cargo ship sink just off Sheerness , which be pack with something like 1 , 400 tonne of high explosive . Most expert feel that as long as the ship be not disturb , the seawater will gradually inactivate those explosive , so if they be ever disturb enough to trigger , any firework would be minor . however , there be a minority view that if something trigger all the explosive to go off at once , the result explosion would not just inundate the whole of Sittingbourne and Sheppey but send a 5 - metre tsunami back up the Thames , all the way to central London , swamp the Palace of Westminster — give we all very wet foot , and most of the mps in the south - east and London an awful lot of extra casework . finally , I thank my constituent again for put their faith in I ; the campaigner and activist who help I to get elect ; my parent and sibling , who have always show how proud they be of I ; and most of all , my husband Lee , who I could not have get this far in life without , and who be a true partner to I in everything that we do . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I thank all hon . member for their fine contribution , include my hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) and the hon . member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) . it be the great honour of my life to serve the people of Stratford - on - Avon . I be humble to have be elect to represent the place that I call home , where I live and where I have raise my family , who be here today in the Public Gallery . I be proud to be the first Liberal MP for our constituency in over a century , and the first woman ever to be elect to this role . I extend my heartfelt thank to the people of Stratford , Alcester , Studley , Shipston , Henley , Bidford and the many village and hamlet that make up our beautiful constituency . I thank they for place their trust in I . I promise to be their champion , and a strong and unwavering voice for everyone , fight every day for the fair deal that they deserve . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Nadhim Zahawi , who be MP for Stratford - on - Avon for the last 14 year . during his political career he cover many important role in the Cabinet , but I thank he in particular for his work as vaccine Minister during the covid pandemic . I also acknowledge the service of the late John Maples , who represent Stratford - upon - Avon with distinction from 1997 to 2010 , before be elevate to the other place . he be both well like and greatly admire . although I be proud to be the first female MP for Stratford - upon - Avon , I be not the first to bring italian heritage to the role . that distinction belong to another of my predecessor , John Profumo , who beat I to it — although I plan on a much quieter stay in the history book . my constituency be one of the most beautiful area of our country , with luscious woodland such as the Heart of England forest , valley lap by river and brook , and fertile farmland — a landscape special as only the Warwickshire countryside can be . my connection to my constituency be one of deep love . I love the stretch from Shipston - on - Stour and the rolling Cotswolds fringe in the south , to the Avon valley village and Henley - in - Arden in the north , where the majestic forest of Arden once stand . at the heart of my constituency lie the town of Stratford - upon - Avon , celebrate worldwide as the birthplace of the great playwright of all : William Shakespeare . each year on William ' s birthday , the town remember and celebrate its most famous son , with civic dignitary and local schoolchildren parade through the historic street to lay flower on his tomb in Holy Trinity church . I look forward to join they next April . what make our constituency special above all be its people , who be resilient and community minded . each town and village be bless with warm - hearted volunteer help in repair caf é s , food bank , the community speed watch and flood action group . there be outstanding place of learning , such as our local school and college , the Shakespeare Institute of the University of Birmingham , and the University of Warwick ' s innovation campus ; national portfolio organisation such as the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust ; as well as grassroots art company such as the Bear Pit Theatre and Escape Arts . event such as the Shipston prom celebrate the wealth of musical talent . Most of all , we be a constituency of entrepreneur and innovator , business and social enterprise . overlook by Beaudesert castle — know locally as " the Mount " — the town of Henley - in - Arden have a timber - frame high street , which include Henley ' s most famous attraction , Henley Ice Cream , which be well worth a visit . alcester be a town rich in community spirit that come together each year for event such as the Alcester food festival . the town ' s root stretch back to roman time , and its heritage be proudly preserve today in the Roman Alcester Museum . just up the road from Alcester be Coughton Court , home of the Throckmorton family , who play a rather infamous role in the gunpowder plot of 1605 . as the new MP for the area , I assure the House that I will not continue that local tradition . my constituency also have some of the most beautiful waterway in the country . the Rivers Avon , Alne , Arrow and Stour , and our fantastic canal network , include the long canal aqueduct in England — the Edstone aqueduct — be not only vital to our community ' s natural and industrial heritage , but be central to our environmental responsibility . sadly , not enough have be do to tackle river pollution . I thank resident for join citizen ' science project to regularly test the water and collect much - need datum on the state of our river ' health , so that we can hold the Government and water company to account . as a rural constituency , we face many challenge : NHS dentistry desert , long wait time for mental health service , special educational need and disability family battle for education provision , and fuel poverty . many of my vulnerable constituent live in off - grid home that be expensive to heat . the Warm Homes and Energy Conservation Act 2000 , introduce by Sir David Amess , be important legislation that seek to eliminate fuel poverty . to far combat it , we need an emergency home insulation programme so that home be safe , warm and cheap to heat . as Shakespeare write : " some be bear great , some achieve greatness , and other have greatness thrust upon they . " I stand here today not because I be bear great , or because I seek greatness , but because the people of Stratford - upon - Avon have entrust I with public service . together , we can achieve greatness not for ourselves , but for our constituent and our country . with a new Parliament , we have a chance to strive for a fair , green and more inclusive future . the stage be set , and it be now time for we to play our part .