record rate of retail crime and shoplifting be blight our high street , include in Ipswich , where too often such instance act as a flashpoint for completely unacceptable level of violence , threat and abuse direct towards retail worker . I very much welcome the Government ' s commitment to end the £ 200 threshold for prosecute shoplifter , and the introduction of a stand - alone offence that will give shoplifter the protection they need . will the Minister join I in Ipswich to meet local retail staff , so that she can hear about their experience and the vital difference that these step will make ? I have a feeling that my hon . friend might mention Avanti , and he know my view . one of the first meeting I hold as Secretary of State be with Avanti . I call it in , as one of the worst - perform operator , with representative of its Network Rail business unit — a meeting that be not hold by any of my three predecessor while I be shadow Secretary of State . I make it clear that Avanti ' s level of performance will not be tolerate , and we will use all measure under its national rail contract to hold it to account . that do not exclude terminate the contract before it expire if Avanti default . we be promise High Speed 2 to Manchester , yet that be axe — in Manchester , no less — leave a west coast main line that be now burst at the seam . meanwhile , passenger continue to suffer , with overcrowded train and poor facility , record - high cancellation — almost one in three train be late — some of the most expensive fare in Europe , and regular bout of industrial action . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my first contribution in this House and welcome you to your place follow the election . I congratulate all hon . member and hon . friend who have give their maiden speech over previous day . they have be a reminder of the immense talent of those join this House , and what a privilege it be for I to be among they . I look forward to hear their many contribution to debate over the come month and year . I begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , Julie Marson , who serve our resident for four and a half year . I thank Julie for her hard work in help to secure banking hub to protect our resident ' access to in - person banking service in part of our community — work that I look forward to continue . I know that the whole House will want to join I in wish Julie and her family the very good for the future . it be the honour of my life to represent the community where I grow up and that I call home , as the first Labour MP in Hertford and Stortford ' s 41 - year history . our town centre in Hertford give I my first job , our railway carry I to the university education I think I have miss out on and , although I be not sure that at age 24 I count as an old boy of the school , I be a proud former student of Richard Hale . I be deeply humble by the trust that our resident have place in I , and I will work every day to ensure that it be repay . Hertford and Stortford be a historic community . when plague overrun London in the 1500 , this Parliament move to Hertford castle , where the gatehouse be now home to Hertford town council . Bishop ' s Stortford be suspect to be a roman new town , and may once have sit at an ancient transport interchange . Sawbridgeworth boast architecture from the Tudor , Stuart and georgian period , and Ware be home to a malt - make industry that last from the civil war to the 20th century . our constituency represent so much of what be great about our country : hard - work community , historic town , and hub of innovation , creativity and commerce . I have the chance to visit one such hub of innovation on a recent visit to Wickham Hall in Bishop ' s Stortford . there I be inspire by David and Suzy Harvey , self - style " custodian of the countryside " , whose creativity and passion have transform a 100 - year - old family farm into a thriving business community , make use of the green technology of the future and with a mission to protect our environment . our natural environment be as diverse as it be beautiful , with some of Britain ' s rare chalk stream , of which our resident be rightly fiercely protective , run right through our constituency . I therefore warmly welcome this Government ' s commitment to clean up our precious water . I will work tirelessly , within this House and in my community , to ensure that they be protect . today , many of our Hertford and Stortford resident will travel to and from work use our local railway , whether from one town to the next , from our constituency into London or even far . however , when I speak to resident in our community , too often I hear story of a broken rail network that be not work for local people . indeed , just today one of my resident contact I to say that yet more service have be cancel to Hertford North this evening due to a lack of staff . our railway be once the pride of Britain , connect people and place with new opportunity , but the current model of privatisation be fail passenger and staff across the country . I be hearten by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State ' s promise to " move fast and fix thing " . we know that publicly own , passenger - focus rail can deliver the efficient , high - quality and reliable service that our Hertford and Stortford resident need , and make our railway something to be proud of once again . I have not follow a traditional path through life , as my sometimes frustrated parent would agree . I leave school at 17 and go straight into work , first in my town centre , then commute into London , before work in recruitment in a local business park . I return to education during lockdown , enrol at the University of Westminster to study — perhaps unsurprisingly — politic , blissfully unaware that in a few year ' time , I would be desperately try to navigate the corridor of this place . I would not have find the path that be right for I have it not be for the inspirational work of our youth club in Hertford and Stortford , and it be to they that I wish to pay tribute now . I have experience at first hand the difference that their work make to the life of our young people , and I can say with confidence that , have it not be for the support and guidance of a youth worker name Russell Cairns , I would not be in this Chamber today . I have since have the privilege of visit the Thirst youth caf é in Bishop ' s Stortford and volunteering at FUTUREhope youth caf é , in the very building where I once seek advice from Russell . I look forward to work with they and many other as our Member of Parliament , to ensure that every young person in our community be support to find the path that be right for they , just as I be support to find mine . I hope I can also show our young people that , if they wish , the path they choose can lead they here . during the election , I have the chance to visit some of our local school , take part in a husting at Herts and Essex high school in Bishop ' s Stortford and answer the question of sixth - former at Leventhorpe school in Sawbridgeworth and Richard Hale school in Hertford . I be strike by their insightful question and genuine passion for politic . we know that young people be at the sharp end of so many of the crisis we face today , whether it be the climate crisis or the crisis in housing and mental health , but too often they feel powerless to make a difference and that politics be not a place for they . I be proud to be a young person represent his community , join this place among a cohort of young parliamentarian . but it be incumbent on all of we to show our young people that they have a place not only in politic , but in this Parliament too , and I look forward to work with colleague across the House to make that happen . finally , I would like to reflect on two people without whom I would not be here : my mum and dad . my mum teach in local school before become a special educational need co - ordinator . I have grow up watch she give so much to her profession in often challenging circumstance . Hers be the story of teacher and support staff across our school across the country , and she continue to be an inspiration to I — as be my dad , who now live just outside Bishop ' s Stortford and , like so many of our resident , commute into London every day . my parent move to Hertford in the late 1990 because they want the good start for I . I can not think of a well moment than now to thank they for everything they have give I over the last 24 year . my parent be example of hard work and dedication , principle that they have instill in I , and those be principle that I will carry with I every day as I go to work in this place . thank you , Mr Speaker , for afford I the honour and opportunity to make my maiden speech today . I have listen intently to many speech over the past few day , and I congratulate all those who have make their maiden speech . I rise with slight trepidation in my aspiration to match the passion and eloquence of other , who have speak in such an inspiring way about their constituency , life experience and priority . I commend they all . I would like to start by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Katherine Fletcher . Katherine dedicate herself for the past four and a half year , and have a real passion for want to improve the life of many people in the constituency . I also pay tribute to all previous elect member of Parliament who have serve the community of South Ribble : the right hon . Sir Robert Atkins , David Borrow , Lorraine Fullbrook and Seema Kennedy . all be still highly thought of . today , we debate the public ownership of passenger railway service . for my constituent , that can not happen quickly enough . with Avanti West Coast , which in my instance run the west coast main line between Preston and London , we be subject to quite possibly the bad franchise in the country — and trust I , give the state of many of the current franchise , that be some achievement . be elect on the new boundary for South Ribble — which , Mr Speaker , now include many area of Chorley Rural West — on 4 July be a huge privilege , humbling and a great honour . I can not thank the people of South Ribble enough for give I this opportunity to represent they . I hope and promise to do my good , use my experience in industry , in the military and , more recently , as their council leader in local government . with a heavy heart , I have now pass on the baton of the leadership of South Ribble borough council to Councillor Jacky Alty , my friend and colleague . I send she and the council my heartfelt good wish for the future . however , I be now in a new political chapter and intend to push forward , deliver change with my new Labour Government and colleague , and I will take every opportunity to advance my constituent ' priority and prospect in every way I can , with all the energy and experience I bring . I remain committed to ensure that they all begin to thrive follow such challenging time . I be bring up in Barrow - in - Furness , and I have a continue passion for Barrow AFC . however , during the crippling strike at the shipyard in 1988 in response to Mrs Thatcher ' s target attack on the UK ' s manufacturing industry , I end up join the british Army ' s Corps of Royal Engineers at the tender age of 18 . I serve for just under 15 year , serve operationally in the first Gulf war on Operation Haven and in the Kosovo conflict in 1999 , to name but two . after retire from the Royal Engineers in 2003 to be close to my young child , I move to South Ribble to establish a new life and a fresh start , and make it my home . the people be always warm and welcoming , and I understand that I be the first Member of Parliament actually from the constituency to have be elect to represent it . like many constituency , South Ribble be both rural and urban . we have the River Ribble run through the north of the constituency , and border with Preston , West Lancashire , Ribble Valley and Chorley . South Ribble be make up of many small village , like much Hoole , Hutton , Charnock Richard , Longton , Croston and Eccleston , as well as town such as Penwortham and Leyland , where — as member may have guess — Leyland truck be historically produce and our fantastic manufacturing base be bear . I think we have Leyland Motors to thank for the now well - establish global defence manufacturer , BAE Systems , on our doorstep . the draughtsman , designer , fitter , engineer and fabled toolmaker be all in abundance at Leyland Motors in South Ribble , and that knowledge have be pass on proudly through our local skill and training institution for decade . Central Lancashire provide thousand of highly technical worker to many critical sector , primarily the defence sector . South Ribble have many unique characteristic , culture and attraction . as the council leader , I have come to know my constituency intimately : spend time at the long - stand green flag award Worden park and Worden Hall on a Saturday afternoon ; have a pint with Martin , Nigel and Rachel in the Market Ale House in Leyland ; or work with fellow veteran , who be represent in an astonishing 19 % of household in South Ribble . I will continue to support and champion individual such as 15 - year - old Ben Griffiths — or " Boisterous Ben " , if member would like to follow his story on social medium . Ben be live an exceptionally tough life , with intractable epilepsy that he have have since birth . he have a desperate need for full access to NHS - prescribe medical cannabis , which he be not be permit . in my opinion , he be be deny that life - save medication due to bureaucracy . I will not accept that , and will not rest until Ben get the support and medication he need . I will also continue to support my community , who desperately need new road infrastructure to lessen congestion and travel time and improve air quality , as well as more quality housing and development in the right place so that community and family can continue to live together in South Ribble . however , these development must be sustainable , with infrastructure first , and they must be affordable . I will strive to get the Government to commence a huge council house building programme with local council up and down the country . I be proud that when I be council leader , we commence build the first council house in a generation in South Ribble — house that be high - quality and affordable . I will continue to champion inward investment through devolution in the north - west and to work towards an elect mayor and combined authority for Lancashire , permit local decision maker to have great power in their own transport , health , policing , skill , education , housing and employment . the current county combine authority be pursue by Lancashire county council just be not good enough — I have already speak to the relevant Secretary of State about the issue . we must also optimise the opportunity that will come with the brand - new cyber - security centre on our doorstep , at BAE Systems in my neighbouring constituency of Ribble Valley ; it really could become a global centre of excellence , offer huge opportunity to the entire constituency . finally , I pay tribute to my beloved mother Marilyn . after lose she to cancer complicate by covid in 2020 , I know what lose a love one feel like . she be only 68 year and one day old when she pass ; she be lonely and afraid , and the pain that I and my family , and many thousand of other , go through during the pandemic can never , ever be repeat . her end of life be desperately traumatic , and could and should have be avoid . I hold a very personal and strong view on the very well - publicise party that be hold down here . we must learn lesson , and must all listen very carefully to what the covid inquiry find . give I and my family ' s experience with my mum , I also look forward to the passionate debate on assist dying , which will be a deeply complex but critically important piece of legislation . I have dedicate 32 year of my life to public service in the British Army and in local government . I now far commit to you , Mr Speaker , to this House , and to each and every one of my constituent , as it state in my Institution of Royal Engineers ' motto , " service not self " ; I promise my continue public service , uphold fully the principle of integrity , objectivity , accountability , selflessness , openness , honesty and leadership at all time . I be honour to be here to serve the people of South Ribble . I rise to give my maiden speech . I congratulate you , Mr Speaker , on your position and the Transport Secretary and the Front - Bench team on their position . it be a privilege and a pleasure to follow the maiden speech that we have just hear , include by the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , who , along with my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , significantly increase the Josh quotient in the House . if I contribute nothing else , I clearly increase the Gideon quotient by the massive number of one new Member of Parliament . I also thank the hon . member for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , whose public service have be endure . he have have my congratulation on that already . their speech will be a hard act to follow , but I have the advantage of represent Taunton and Wellington , so it should not be too much of a problem . I give credit to the former Conservative Member for Taunton Deane , Rebecca Pow , who will , I be sure , continue her enthusiasm for gardening and wildlife . she be , of course , a Minister with responsibility for water and for our river . I be partial to a dip in the river from time to time , so I be pleased to successfully apply for bathing water status for a stretch of the Tone in Taunton to get the improvement in water quality that we desperately need in our river down in Taunton . the River Tone be the silver thread that join Wellington to Taunton to the level , close to where the famous cake be burn near the King Alfred Inn at Burrowbridge . I also pay tribute to the former Liberal Democrat MP Jeremy Browne , the Member of Parliament for Taunton Deane from 2005 to 2015 . he serve as a Home Office and a Foreign Office Minister , and remain incredibly well like in the constituency . he be the first Member to propose a new railway station for Wellington , and I be delighted to have have the Chancellor ' s assurance in the previous debate that that project will go ahead . I be the eighth Liberal to represent Taunton in Parliament since some guy name Disraeli be defeat by the first one in the 1835 general election . of course , nothing far be hear of he — at least not in Taunton . Taunton ' s parliamentary tradition be very deep - rooted . as a county town with a castle , which today proudly house the Castle hotel and the superb Museum of Somerset support by our dynamic town council , its parliamentarian hold out in siege after siege . today , the hard work of so many people in Taunton at the Brewhouse theatre , the Southern Sinfonia , the Bluebirds Theatre Company , the Tacchi - Morris , the Willows and Wetlands visitor centre , the Creative Innovation Centre , Arts Taunton , GoCreate Taunton , group such as Amici and Voce , and the Bradford Players — I have many more — the Taunton Thespians and the @ 2 K Theatre ; and in Wellington at the Arts Centre , the Wellesley Theatre , the operatic society , and the Gaumont theatre , which once play host to the Beatles and the Rolling Stones and be now home to the bingo , all come together to mean that not only do we have a Mecca , but our area be a cultural mecca to which people come from far and wide . then , of course , there be the magnificent Somerset county ground , grace by the tower of St James and the minster , where I marry Caroline just 28 short year ago . I thank she and our child , Emily , Fraser and Fenner and Felix , from the bottom of my heart for their support . our school from North Town and Minerva to Bishop Fox ' s , Court Fields , Castle , Pyrland , Selworthy and Monkton Wood feed into our nationally renowned Richard Huish College , Bridgwater & Taunton College and University Centre Somerset , which now offer degree like nursing , in support of the superb staff at Musgrove Park hospital . funding be urgently need for the hospital ' s new maternity unit , because bucket be currently use to catch the rain in the corridor of a building build for the US army — as a temporary building — in 1940 . similarly , King ' s and Queen ' s , Taunton and Wellington ' s independent school , make a massive contribution to our area ' s local economy . we also have a successful home education community that inspire an innovative generation of young people . to all our area ' s child , I say : " be yourself . if your name be Gideon , for example , there ' s no need to change it to get elect to Parliament . " that be something I once try to discuss with the former Member for Tatton . I confess that it have take I a little time to get to this Chamber — if I have not have to deliver all those bible to hotel , I would have get here a lot quick . all those institution , together with the UK Hydrographic Office , make Taunton the ideal location for new research and innovation entrepreneur . it be only 104 minute from Paddington , so they should all come and enjoy the amazing quality of life that we offer . when they come to Taunton , they will find a ticket office at the station that be still work . I be amazed to hear the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) apparently still advocate the closure of ticket office — a policy about which I can say only " good luck " . to encourage people to come to Wellington , I look forward to work hard on the Wellington station project that I mention early . I invite the right hon . Lady the Transport Secretary , and the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , to visit the project . on their visit , I hope that they will enjoy a glass of famous Sheppy ' s or Taunton cider — or , to pronounce it correctly for Hansard , zyder — at the Ring of Bells , the Green Dragon or the Pump House in Tonedale , in a Rocket and Bird glass with some somerdale cheese and perhaps some Bumblee ' s relish , follow by a meal at Guddi and Gikki , Maliha and Taj , the little Wine Shop or Augustus . they be ideal for planning visit to key organisation in the constituency , like WPA , Pritex or indeed the 40 Commando Royal Marines at Norton Manor camp . I be delighted to support the Royal Marines , with the help of former Royal Marine Paddy Ashdown — raise an ultimately successful petition to gain a u - turn on the previous Government ' s shocking proposal to close down the entire facility . in his maiden speech the other day , my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) , draw attention to the huge sacrifice that previous generation make so that we be all free to sit in this Chamber today . my service in the Territorial Army be pretty minimal , but my father , FJC " Jim " Amos CBE , and my mother , Geraldine Amos MBE , both serve in world war two , follow their father who serve in the trench . I remember discuss it with they all . when I be grow up , hon . member will not be surprised to hear that the atmosphere and the memory of war loom large in discussion around meal table . be it not that generation ' s courage and bravery , not only in rebuild Britain but in defeat fascism in the first place , that demand our respect ? they demand that we do everything we can to defend the liberal and democratic value that make this country so great . their bravery surely also demand that all hon . member , on both side of the House , always say no to those who would stir up division , despair and hatred for nothing more than vote , because they have nothing positive to offer people . it be the great privilege of my life to serve the resident of Taunton and Wellington — from Hatch Beauchamp , Helland and North Curry in the east to Whiteball , West Buckland , and Sampfords Moor and Arundel in the west ; and from Bishopswood , Churchinford and Stoke St Mary in the south to Pickney , West Monckton and Kingston St Mary in the north — in this House . I be here to do one thing : work for they and stand up for they to those in power whenever that be the right thing to do . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to begin that duty today . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this opportunity to make my maiden speech . may I congratulate you on your recent election ? I also congratulate all those who have make maiden speech today , particularly the hon . member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , who speak so passionately about the beauty of his constituency and the childhood experience that he bring to this House . I be honour to have be elect by the people of Thornbury and Yate to be their voice and champion here in Parliament . Ours be a beautiful and hugely varied rural constituency , with the town of Thornbury , Yate and Chipping Sodbury and many village , stretch from Hill , Falfield and Charfield in the north to Bridge Yate , Siston and Wick in the south . to the east be the Cotswold escarpment , part of a designate national landscape . to the west be the severn estuary , a Ramsar wetland of international importance and formerly home to the Aust ferry , make famous by Bob Dylan . there be much worth visit locally , from historic attraction such as Dyrham Park and Acton Court , to the more modern . Bristol Zoo Project carry out important international conservation work , while not far away — I hesitate to mention this , when my leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) might be listen — there be an artificial inland surfing lake call the Wave . there be a real history of innovation locally , although sadly my own parish of Frampton Cotterell ' s claim to the invention of the Stetson hat appear to be little more than an urban legend . however , we can be proud that the pioneer of vaccination , Edward Jenner , start his medical training in Chipping Sodbury . nowadays , many of my constituent work in cut - edge industry in our region , such as aerospace . with a background in math and software engineering , I take a keen interest in see those industry flourish , and I want to ensure that our young people can benefit from the opportunity they bring . my constituency be of course more than its landscape and history ; it be the people who live there and their fantastic community spirit . I see that in my own village during the pandemic , when hundred of volunteer rally to help other . whether it be the big lunch in Chipping Sodbury , the Yate Ageing Better festival , Thornbury carnival or any myriad other event and group , they all contribute to make the constituency a wonderful place to live . I thank my predecessor Luke Hall , who serve Thornbury and Yate for nine year , during which time he champion neonatal care leave and hold post in the Department for Education and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . I wish he and his family all the good for the future . I also thank his predecessor , the former Pensions Minister Sir Steve Webb , who have be a great source of wisdom for I and be fondly remember by many constituent . he set a very high bar for all his successor , and I will do my good to meet it . while I be thank people , I put on record my gratitude to Councillor Maggie Tyrrell , who have recently succeed I as the leader of South Gloucestershire council . I know that the council be in safe hand as I bring that experience to this place . I be grateful for the opportunity to make this speech in this important debate , because if we be to tackle the climate crisis and cut congestion on our road , we must get rail service back on track to give people genuine alternative to get around effectively . there be currently three railway station in my constituency . Yate station be reopen in the 1980 , and we desperately need the propose redevelopment . I will also be seek to ensure that the funding for half - hourly service be extend beyond the current end date of 2026 . that will benefit not only Yate , but provide an hourly train for the new station plan at Charfield . the station at Pilning be a parliamentary station , with just one train run a week to avoid formally close it . its location , near the grow industrial location of Severnside , mean that if properly reopen , it be prime place to help the many worker who travel from south Wales to make the trip without a car . the third station be severn Beach . once a seaside resort , the line now serve commuter . however , commuter can be leave disappoint by flood on the line , as well as the fact that the service be not more frequent . rail campaigner be also keen to see other station reopen , such as Coalpit Heath and Thornbury , but for that to be possible , we need national investment in Westerleigh junction to increase capacity and unlock this potential . I hope that the Secretary of State will commit to make that part of the integrate infrastructure review that be reference early . as my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) say , ultimately passenger be not interested in who run the train ; they simply want they to run on time and for the ticket to be affordable . give the continue squeeze on people ' s finance , we need an immediate freeze on rail fare and our fragmented ticketing system need simplify to cut cost for commuter . we also need to think about integration with other form of public transport . in my constituency , we have see serious cut to local bus service , with many village leave with no regular bus at all . my aim in this place will be to champion the right of people to have affordable and green method of transport , whether they live in rural or urban area . in conclusion , I promise to work tirelessly for my constituent , not only on fix our railway , but on other issue too , such as the fact that our school be among the low fund in the country and that it be almost impossible to register with an NHS dentist locally . I look forward to work constructively with right hon . and hon . member across the House to address these problem and ensure that the people of Thornbury and Yate get the fair deal they deserve . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech in this august Chamber . I join other hon . member in welcome you to your place , and the ministerial team and the shadow ministerial team to their place as well . I congratulate all hon . member who have make their maiden speech today ; we have hear excellent contribution . I thank , in particular , the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) , who describe her constituency so eloquently that it make one want to visit , but those who know I will know that a visit by I would be accompany with a Labour party campaign . may I also please take this opportunity to thank all the staff across the parliamentary estate who have work incredibly hard and always courteously to help I and , I be sure , many other hon . member to establish ourselves in this place ? I also take the opportunity to thank the voter of Smethwick , who have entrust I with the honour and responsibility of be their elect Member of Parliament . it be indeed a great honour to stand here today , and I give the voter my word that I will work to repay their trust to the good of my ability . of course , I would not be here without the support of my family . my grandfather , Bhan Singh and Niranjan Singh , arrive in the UK in 1956 and 1957 and carry out manual job in foundry and brickwork respectively . they come with hope for a well life for they and their family , but they also come with a strong belief that , with hard work , they would be able to forge a well life in Great Britain . my father , Swaran Singh Josan , be 10 year old when he arrive in Smethwick in 1958 . he have most of his education here , and he go on to work as an engineer for the Post Office , which go on to become british Telecom . alongside that , in 1975 he , my mum and my uncle establish a family business — a hardware store and plumber ' merchant — on the high street in Smethwick , and my brother continue to run the business today . my father be also active in his trade union and the Labour party . he be elect to Sandwell council in 1986 and subsequently three time . unfortunately , he pass away in 1999 , when he be the cabinet member for housing in Sandwell . be in this place be always his dream . I believe that he would be proud of this achievement . it be a convention of the House to speak in good term about one ' s predecessor . my predecessor be the right hon . John Spellar , and those who know he will know two thing . first , it do not require convention for I to speak well of he . secondly , bear in mind that his phone ringtone be the theme tune to " the Godfather " , it be a convention that I dare not ignore . John be first elect to the House in a by - election in 1982 in Birmingham Northfield . he be then elect as Member of Parliament for Warley West in 1992 , and for Warley in 1997 . in total , John give over 32 year of service to the House , during which he serve in ministerial and shadow ministerial role . in addition , he give stalwart service to the people he be elect to represent and be always greet fondly across the whole constituency . John also play a considerable role over all those year in work to keep the Labour party in the centre ground — the ground where election be win and life can be change for the well . he leave I with incredibly big shoe to fill . I be delighted that he be be elevate to the other place . Smethwick exist as the name for the constituency between 1918 and 1997 and have be bring back follow the recent boundary change . the constituency consist of the former Warley constituency and most of the Blackheath ward . it include the football ground of West Bromwich Albion — the Baggies . it be an extremely diverse place with a relatively young demographic and a significant black , asian and minority ethnic community , particularly from the muslim and Sikh background . Smethwick be mention in the Domesday Book . its people be a proud people , who be particularly proud of our industrial heritage . as an example , Smethwick be the location of the Soho Foundry , create by Matthew Boulton and James Watt in 1775 , where the old work steam engine in the world be build . historically , in addition to my predecessor , Smethwick also see Christabel Pankhurst stand in the 1918 general election just after woman be give the vote . Oswald Mosley be the MP between 1926 and 1929 . Smethwick also have the short serve MP ever elect . Alfred Dobbs be elect in the 1945 general election . however , the day after the election he be kill in a car accident on his way to Westminster . be aware of that record , I wait three day after the election before drive extra carefully down to Parliament . perhaps the most infamous previous MP for the seat be Peter Griffiths , the Tory party candidate who be elect in 1964 after run a disgraceful and nakedly racist campaign with a disgusting slogan , which I will not repeat as it use the racist n - word . the election and racial tension at the time prompt a visit a few month later to the constituency by Malcolm X , which be just about a week before he be kill . thankfully , Peter Griffiths ' s term be bring to an end by Andrew Fauld , who defeat he in the 1966 general election . Smethwick be undergo huge change at the time . in 1967 , it see the appointment of the first black headteacher in the UK , Tony o ' connor , at Bearwood primary school . the general election be about change . after 14 year , the british people have vote for change and give a huge mandate to the Prime Minister and the Labour party . the recent King ' s Speech contain Bills that will bring huge change to the country , our public service and the life of the people we represent . the Prime Minister can be sure that his programme have my full support . among those Bills , the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill will bring much - need change on our railway . its provision that will bring franchise into public control and , along with provision that will set up great British Railways , be widely discuss and understand by voter during the general election . it be clear that voter support the change propose in the Bill . for I , the election be also about change across our community . one example of that change in Smethwick be the fact that 60 year after that disgraceful racist campaign , I — a child and grandchild of immigrant — can be elect to this House . that change be the result of many people across Smethwick and Sandwell work hard to build relationship and understanding across all community and ensure that we deliver on the aspiration of all our people . Smethwick be an incredibly diverse yet harmonious place . it be my community . by that , I mean it be the street I live on , the park opposite , the church on Church Hill Street , the Jamia mosque on Oldbury Road , the Bangladeshi mosque in north Smethwick , the somali community centre , the Smethwick Asian Sheltered and Residential Association , SAFS care family support , St Albans community centre , Better Understanding of Dementia for Sandwell , the Royal British Legion branch and club , brushstroke , Brandhall Labour club , the school where I be a governor , the gurdwara where I pray , the high street where I work and so much more . that be my community . yet in Smethwick we also have our challenge . some of those spill out during the election , as they do in other place . the election see the rise of small party and independent , include those drive by foreign policy issue and other such as the Reform party . I be chair of trustee at Hope not hate Charitable Trust , and I see how hate and aggression increasingly define our public discourse , particularly on online platform , but also more and more in person . it be a responsibility of all of we to challenge and address that , and to ensure that kindness be the basis of all that we do . to those who do not vote for I in Smethwick , I say : I be still your Member of Parliament and I still want to talk to you about the issue that concern you . many member have say that be in this place be the honour of our life , so over the weekend I think about that and question why we say it . what come to my mind be that people have vote for we — they have go out there , put a cross by our name and put their trust in we . we be in the mother of all Parliaments , and we will make decision that will change this country . those be all reason why it be a real honour to be here . but the big reason why it be an honour to be in this Chamber be the people . we have hear so many excellent maiden speech over the past couple of week , which signify the strength of this Chamber . the Chamber without its people be just Benches , and Benches do not do anything . institution without people in they do not do anything . it be the people who will bring change . the honour be be here alongside so many fantastic people . I may disagree with those on other Benches , fundamentally and robustly , but it be an honour to be here alongside every single one of they . I have always be drive by a strong sense of humanity , fairness and justice . my upbringing and my Sikhi faith be key to my belief . I be remind of the line in Gurbani write by Guru Nanak : " Ham Nahi Changae , Bura Nahi Koi . " I be not good ; no one be bad . that draw attention to the equality of all of we , regardless of any of our attribute . a good friend in interfaith circle describe Sikhi in a four - letter word : love . we believe that God be omnipresent , across and within all of creation . so to love God be to love other people . for those of no faith , it do no harm to love other in any case . I consider myself incredibly lucky . I have the incredible support of my family : my wife Harvinder , my son Pavandeep , my daughter Gurkirta , my mum Bhajan Kaur Josan , my nephew Gagandeep , Puneetpal and Ishmeet , who be all here in the Gallery . I have be elect to represent a constituency that be embed in my heart . I sit on the Benches of a Government who will serve the people . I know that there be incredibly hard work ahead ; that there will be disagreement and robust word , and difficult decision will need to be make . but I be committed to serve this House and the voter of Smethwick to the good of my ability . congratulation on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a privilege to follow so many excellent maiden speech this evening , include from my hon . friend the Members for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) , for Smethwick ( Gurinder Josan ) and for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , and the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) , for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) and for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) . I apologise if I have miss any . they be a tribute to the wealth of talent and experience in this Parliament . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my first speech in support of this Bill , which will hopefully lay the permanent way to well value for taxpayer and well passenger service . transport have sometimes be see in this place as an unfashionable Department — a stop - off point for ambitious politician on the way up , and occasionally on the way down — but it be clear that this attitude be not hold by this Front Bench team or this new Government . there be , however , some historical basis for that view . when Barbara Castle be appoint Transport Minister , Harold Wilson tell she : " your job be to produce the integrated transport policy we promise in our manifesto . I could work something out myself give half an hour . " when Nicholas Ridley tell Margaret Thatcher that he want to privatise the railway , she respond : " railway privatisation will be the Waterloo of this government . never mention the railway to I again . " down the year , hon . member on the Conservative Benches must have privately wish that Mrs Thatcher ' s view have be take to heart by those who come after . in fact , give the previous Government ' s record of reclassify Network Rail into the public sector , abandon the traditional franchising model and nationalise a quarter of passenger service , I half expect to see Conservative Members join Labour tonight in support of the Bill . it be a privilege to work as staff in the shadow Transport team during some of those long year in opposition . may I take this opportunity to say how welcome it be to see the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) in her place ? she bring real expertise to the role from her time as Chair of the Transport Committee and in the shadow Transport team . she will be an outstanding Minister , and I be grateful for her support and guidance down the year . another Shadow Transport Minister in that team be Richard Burden , my labour predecessor for Birmingham Northfield . Richard ably represent Northfield for 27 year . he be well remember in this House for his boundless enthusiasm for the motor industry , and for his steadfast commitment to social justice , which have continue into what can not be call a retirement , through his activism in pursuit of well local health service and support for the humanitarian cause in Palestine . his support mean a lot to I during the campaign , and I be sure his friend on both side of the House extend their good wish to he . I also want to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor . in the space of just one Parliament , Gary Sambrook become well know locally and , through the 1922 Committee , in the conservative party nationally . he and other candidate fight a campaign that be untouched by the disgraceful tactic of intimidation that be witness elsewhere in Birmingham and which must have no place in our public life . I be certain that this be not the end for Gary in Birmingham politic , and I wish he well . to talk about Birmingham be to tell a tale of two city . that be as true of the Northfield constituency as it be elsewhere . pocket of relative affluence sit cheek by jowl with deprivation . the historic village centre of king Norton and Northfield lie a short distance from the new estate , like Weoley Castle , that be build to serve the need of Birmingham ' s grow economy . the fortune of the constituency rise and fall with Birmingham , but the seat be also define by its outer estate — New Frankley , Rubery and Allens Cross — which be distant and distinct from the city centre . all these community face common challenge , include crime and antisocial behaviour , and the decline of the traditional high street . they have be hit hard by cut to neighbourhood policing and by the decision last year to not proceed with the regeneration of Northfield ' s high street . there be much to do . for most of the constituency ' s history it be well know for the Longbridge car plant , which also draw in worker from the surround area of West Heath , Rednal and beyond . for 100 year , Longbridge pay handsomely into the national purse , and it be essential to our defence in time of crisis . during the second world war , Longbridge and its shadow factory produce many of the armament and aircraft that keep our nation free . if the House will excuse a diversion , I be remind at this point of my grandad ' s story , often repeat with pride to we as child , about his time station at the air defence at Billeseley Common , when he — almost — fire a rocket at an encroaching german plane . the site that begin as the Austin work be an important part of our national life . at its peak , it employ some 25 , 000 people . model from the Austin 7 to the Metro become part of our share culture . it be hard to believe that next year will mark the 20th anniversary of Longbridge ' s closure . that occasion must be mark appropriately in Birmingham and in Parliament . the site be now home to an ambitious redevelopment project and , importantly , some manufacture job be return , but travel just a short distance and the scar of that closure be still plain to see . the male employment rate remain a staggering 10 point low than in Birmingham as a whole . shamefully , average monthly wage be £ 300 low in the constituency than they be in 2010 , after inflation . the scourge of in - work poverty be never far away . today , my constituent be most likely to be employ in public service . I be proud to be the son of two teacher even if , sadly , the headquarters of the NASUWT , the Teachers ' Union , which my parent be member of for many year , be just over the border in the neighbouring constituency of Bromsgrove . there will be more to say — much more — in this Parliament about the funding and delivery of service in Birmingham . it be enough to say today that after 14 year of severe cut , the second city be bleed , and I welcome the statement that the new Government have make about the importance of put local government funding on a sustainable footing . the new Government ' s plan to establish a fair pay agreement for adult social care , and to reinstate the school support staff negotiate body , will also make a real , material and long overdue difference to thousand of low - pay worker in the Northfield constituency , most of they woman , who I be proud to help represent as an officer of the GMB union , and whose skill and professionalism have be undervalue for too long . if I could achieve one thing in the time I have in this place , it would be to secure improvement to special educational need and disability provision . it be a cause that be close to my heart : I be one of those child . I know what it mean to have to fight to avoid be define by other people ' s low expectation . I know the stigma that be the mark of attitude that be still common and from word that I will not repeat in this place . I wish that I could say otherwise , but it never leave you . I know , too , that a child ' s life can turn on access to an identification or a single decision about adjustment and resource — or even for the want of a few encouraging word . so if I speak for a moment in anger , it be because too many child and family in Birmingham and beyond face barrier that be high now than they be 25 year ago , in breach of the promise that life for each generation will be well than the last . it be not enough to fight for people within a fail system ; we have to change it . that be one of the cause I come to Parliament to advocate for , and I welcome the commitment on SEND make by the Education Secretary and the Prime Minister in the early day of this Parliament . I would like to end by talk about family . before I come generation of factory worker , electrician and shopkeeper , painter and polisher , cleaner and coachbuilder , jewellery maker and japanner — some escape famine ' s shadow — who be bear in Birmingham or who come to call the city their home . in the last few week , I have think about those I know and those I do not , and what they might have say if they could have see this day , just as the hard accumulate year of million of work life form the prologue to the new deal for work people and the history that this Labour Government will make . I have think , too , about public service — about the challenge of prove to be equal to the task ahead and to the hope of the people who trust we to represent they in this place ; Madam Deputy Speaker , I hope to be . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) . may I say what a pleasure it be to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ? you have make history with your election and you will have inspire many woman and girl across our country . it be wonderful to see a number of my neighbour here , include my hon . friend the Members for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , as well as many hon . friend from across the west midland . I say a special thank you to my former boss , my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) , who be sit with I here on the Government Benches , a far cry from when I sit opposite she in her office upstairs . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , for Smethwick ( Gurinder Josan ) , for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) and for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , all of whom give important , interesting and witty speech , as well as to the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) and for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) . it be a real honour to make my first speech in this House as the Member of Parliament for Newcastle - under - Lyme , and in such an important debate too . I pay tribute to the Secretary of State both for the Bill and for her leadership on these issue . she and I share an interest in Northern Ireland . I be very grateful for all the work she have do to get we to where we be today . I start by acknowledge the deep responsibility I feel to the people who send I here . I thank they for place their trust in I and I will work every day to honour it . my journey to this place start in the former British Empire . my maternal grandfather arrive in the United Kingdom from Jamaica , to serve King and country and to help fight fascism . he dock in Liverpool in 1941 and , after meet my grandmother , build a life in Staffordshire , the county I be proud to represent today . my Dad , who be here in the Gallery , move here from the then Rhodesia , now Zimbabwe , in 1979 and have the luck to meet , and the wisdom to marry , my Mum , a good Staffordshire woman , bear and breed . she be also here in the Gallery . I would not be here without either of they . I stand on the shoulder of my grandparent , Mr and Mrs Bob Owen and Mr and Mrs Adam Jogee . their blood run in my vein . their life story forge my identity and my outlook on the world . the great gift my parent and grandparent have give I be their example of what courage , tolerance , love and diversity mean , not as academic concept but a live experience . that I be stand here today , a Member of the House of Commons on the Government Benches , be not inevitable , but it be possible . my election — the first black man to represent anywhere in the west midland — say so much about who we be in 2024 and what our nation mean . while it be with a sense of sadness that I acknowledge that none of my grandparent be here to witness this speech , I be confident that , if they be , they would all be say to each other what a wonderful country this be . I be proud of my Englishness and my Britishness , and of the simple truth that , in our United Kingdom , you can be anything you want to be with the right support , a work ethic , real opportunity and a good heart . I be not define by my colour , but I be very , very proud of it , and Labour government be key to build the kind of enable environment that mean that success and a good life be available to all . it be that passion for share opportunity that drive I every day . for those who do not make it to campaign with I in the general election — I note that my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , who I know very well , do make several visit , for which I be grateful — Newcastle be an ancient market town in the middle of England . its rich history date back to medieval time , with its market charter grant in 1173 , which mean that last year we celebrate the borough ' s 850th anniversary . the people who live , learn and work in Newcastle - under - Lyme be decent , caring , proud and honest . indeed , when I think of their honesty , I be remind of two particular chat that I have during the campaign . this be semi - dangerous , I suppose , when we start quote our constituent . I meet Steve and his son in Betley — in fact , in the very good Swan pub in Betley . I recommend it to anyone pass through , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , who be very welcome . the first thing Steve say to I be , " you ' re much short than I think you would be in real life . " it be the final chat after a long day of door knock , and my first reaction be , " thank you very much , I think . " I then meet Christine , a pensioner from Wolstanton . she say , " you be much young and well look than you look in your leaflet . you need new leaflet . " I will not share the story about horse ride with my friend Carol Whitehouse in Audley , but suffice it to say , we will all do anything safe and legal to get elect . I be remind in these conversation of the age - old adage that the voter be never wrong . that be a lesson that Conservative party Members — not that there be many here tonight — may want to heed . in my patch , you know where you stand , and if you build trust , show that you care and listen , local people will have your back . we be bless with very fine centre of learn : we be home to Newcastle College and the wonderful Keele University , one of the well high education institution in our country . my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) seek to take credit for it and claim it every day , but it be ours . we have many brilliant school with wonderful teacher , teach assistant and special educational need co - ordinator . I have be honour to visit many of our school over the past 18 month . I will stand up every day to rebuild the support for child and their family with special educational need , because the current situation in Staffordshire , and in Newcastle - under - Lyme in particular , be unacceptable . my constituency boast beautiful park and green space , such as queen ' s Gardens and the victorian Brampton Park , know for its museum , aviary and landscape garden . I be look forward to you visit we , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have Lyme Valley , the old Keele golf course , and much rural , productive green belt in the northern part of my constituency , centre around Audley and Madely . while I completely and unequivocally support our government ' s plan to build more home , we must , at the same time , do as much as we can to protect our green space and deliver the infrastructure that go with any new home . it must be a case of do thing with , not to , people . while some might look north of the Watford Gap and see a cultural desert , I see vibrancy . I be especially proud of the New Vic Theatre , know for its innovative production and meaningful community engagement . we can not talk about North Staffordshire without mention the old mine and pit in Chesterton , Silverdale and Crackley , nor can we avoid talk pottery and ceramic , because our region be home to the age - old pottery industry . I be look forward to work across the a500 and the A34 with my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central , for Stoke - on - Trent South and for Stoke - on - Trent North . my constituency boast of be home to a Prime Minister : the sixth Prime Minister of Australia , Mr Joseph Cook — long dead , but he be bear there . he be bear and raise in the old mining village of Silverdale . I be proud of the fact that a Prime Minister be bear in our patch . the only issue I have with Cook be that he start off in the Labour party and end up a Tory , but nobody — or almost nobody — be beyond redemption . on that basis , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will forgive I for emphasise his passion for aim high when I talk to the young people of Newcastle about he , rather than his move around political party . Newcastle - under - Lyme could not be well place . we be border by the west coast main line and the m6 , between Birmingham and Manchester , not far from Derby and Nottingham and only 90 minute or so from our capital — when Avanti choose to work properly . robust rail infrastructure be a strategic necessity for Newcastle - under - Lyme , for our region and for our United Kingdom . it will stimulate economic growth , bring people together and tear down barrier , and we can do that while at the same time protect our environment and preserve our planet . address the north - south divide in transportation infrastructure be about not just fairness , but maximise the full potential of the north to contribute to a more balanced , prosperous and sustainable future for all of we . that be why I welcome the Bill before we . it show my constituent that we mean it when we say that we would focus on get our nation back on track . I see the Minister for bus , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , on the Front Bench ; I look forward to speak to he about bus soon too . Newcastle - under - Lyme be rich in coal , lead to extensive mining activity for not far off 200 year . the coal industry play a crucial part in the town ' s development and economy . the development of the Trent and Mersey canal in the 18th century enhance transportation link , facilitate the movement of coal and pottery . the canal system be vital for industrial distribution before the advent of our railway . the wonderful Apedale museum and heritage centre provide future generation with a window back to the proud history of our town . I first go when I be about 12 , and it be still go strong . the Apedale Valley railway operate at the same site , add to a great family day out . sadly , though , like most of the west midland and the north , while we be proud of our past , we have not see sufficient focus on build our future by diversify our industry and job . as the historical and traditional industry decline , my constituency transition to a service - orient economy base on education , healthcare and retail . rather than Tory soundbite and gimmick , this new Labour Government have a plan to deliver real change , drive by a mission of national renewal . that be clear from this Bill and from the new deal for work people . let we be clear : under the Tories , work people suffer more than a decade of fall and flatlining pay , while price in the shop go up and energy bill soar . People across Newcastle - under - Lyme still feel the bad effect of the cost of living crisis today . the Tories break our country and we be all still pay the price . labour ' s new deal for work people be a plan to make work pay , ensure security at work and help to provide the work - life balance that everyone deserve . this Bill and an improved rail service will bring connectivity and growth and , set it alongside the new worker ' s deal to ensure that work people can prosper , we will see the power of a Labour Government . clean our air and tackle waste crime be a priority for the people who send I to Parliament . Walleys Quarry landfill be a disgraceful example of the bad excess of profit over people and we will not stand for it any more . it be an environmental crisis and a health one too . that be why I be grateful that that my right hon . friend the Environment Secretary today answer my call and those of all member of Newcastle - under - Lyme borough council , and grant the council permission to proceed with legal action against Walleys Quarry Ltd . that be more do in three week than the last three Environment Secretaries do in three year . it require the law to be change , but I know that the Environment Secretary have hear I loud and clear . I be fortunate — I be keep an eye on the clock , Madam Deputy Speaker — to have meet and to know my three immediate predecessor date back to 1986 , Aaron Bell , Paul Farrelly and the noble Baroness Golding . I be grateful to the more for their service to the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme and I wish they and their family very well . I have be lucky to have have wonderful support and advice from some brilliant people since my election and over the year . I want to make a special mention of former Prime Minister Julia Gillard , former t á naiste Joan Burton and a former Member of this House , Lady Hermon , who make my wedding cake — our wedding cake , I should say ; Alison be probably safe at cut it . for I , this be personal . Newcastle - under - Lyme be where my wife Alison and I will raise any family that we be bless with . I want to say how grateful I be to my wife Alison , who have be on this journey with I over the last seven year , on foot , by plane , by bus , in the car and on our railway . I love and admire she and her work as a nurse in our national health service — work that will be strengthen by this Labour Government . I also want to acknowledge the support of my in - law , who be watch these proceeding from Northern Ireland . the last really important speech I give be on my wedding day . memory of that speech be the reason Alison and my family be very pleased indeed that I have an unofficial time limit — although I be push it . my speech as a new husband last 28 minute — [ interruption . ] very short . it be time by my close mate and friend and they have not , to this day , let I forget it ; it take that long due to the appearance of some very happy tear . today be a marginally short speech , and there be no tear , but there be emotion and determination . there be love — love of family and love of country — and a resolute determination to do my utmost to ensure , in Newcastle - under - Lyme and across our United Kingdom , that all family know that in the year ahead , their child will be able to build life of opportunity , community , security , success and hope . I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your election and I welcome you to your place . I commend my many hon . friend who have make such tremendous contribution in the House this evening , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , who give a move tribute to his parent , and my young hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , who have a few less grey hair than I . I also congratulate my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary ; it be wonderful to see she in her place on the Government Benches . I thank she and her team for bring the Bill to the House so quickly . I be honour to have be elect by the people of Shipley constituency to represent they . I grow up on the edge of the moor in beautiful Wharfedale , and I be proud to serve the place I now call home . I be by no mean the young Member to have represent the seat — that honour go to Chris Leslie who , at 24 , be the baby of the House when he be elect in 1997 — but I be the first woman . I be delighted to be part of the most diverse Parliament with some 263 woman mp on both side of the House . on my first day , as I emerge from Westminster tube and look up in awe at the Palace of Westminster , I take a diversion across Parliament Square to pay homage to Millicent Fawcett , the social campaigner and suffragist whose statue stand alongside Churchill and Gandhi . she hold a banner with the motto , " courage call to courage everywhere " . I have carry those word with I during my first few week in Parliament , although I feel more like the lion from " the Wizard of Oz " as I stand here to make my maiden speech — please , give I courage . I know the people of Shipley have put their trust in I , however , which give I heart . all around I , I see people of courage — every one of we on these Benches . first , we have the courage to stand in the hostile climate in which politic have be conduct recently . it be vital that our democracy be not undermine by those who wish to abuse , threaten and intimidate . I be grateful to the Labour Women ' s Network for give I the support and encouragement to stand , as well as to my husband David , who be here today . I be proud to support 50 : 50 Parliament ' s campaign , ask she to stand , and I thank the Jo Cox Foundation for its work to promote civility in politic . I will play my part in uphold standard in this place . secondly , we have the courage to stand up for what we believe in . each one of we have come to this place with a passion to change thing for the well and to leave our community and the country a well place than when we arrive . I be hearten by the commitment to work across this House and put aside tribal politic where they get in the way of progress and bring the common good to the fore . I look forward to work with my neighbour , the right hon . member — no , not quite — the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) [ interruption . ] not yet . I will seek to work with colleague who share my passion to ensure all disabled and old people get access to the care and support they need to live a full life , work I start as the chair of the archbishop ' commission on reimagine care and which I hope to see deliver in the form of a national care service under this Labour Government . finally , we must also have the courage to speak up for those whose voice be rarely hear in the corridor of power , to tell their story , to demand change that will improve their life and to show how thing can be well . many year ago , my teacher Mr Hodgson tell I , " you can spend your life shout from the outside or go and change thing from the inside . " I intend to use my voice in this place to speak up for the people of Shipley constituency , particularly those whose voice be too often ignore or drown out . so I be proud that we have a Government who be courageous and have waste no time in press forward with ambitious legislation to deliver on their promise , and today my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport have set out another bold plan , take the first step to establish great British Railways . the people of Shipley constituency have suffer from expensive and unreliable public transport for too long . today ' s Bill will begin the work of put the " public " back into public transport , deliver well connectivity so that child from Baildon and Burley - in - Wharfedale can get to school , commuter from Cottingley , Crossflatts and Cullingworth can get to work , and pensioner from Eldwick and Gilstead can get to the shop — boost the economy , enable tourist to visit our wonderful heritage and beautiful countryside in Bingley and Shipley , and make it easy for people to enjoy a night out in Bradford , proudly the city of culture in 2025 . accord to protocol , I be to say something about my immediate predecessor , Sir Philip Davies , who serve the people of Shipley constituency for 19 year . he be always diligent about his correspondence , reply quickly to constituent . Sir Philip advocate for investment in the local area , and it be in part thank to his effort that the NHS have recently commit to reinveste fund from the sale of Shipley hospital into a new health and wellbeing hub . I look forward to continue his work to bring a hope - for boost to Shipley town centre . I can , however , reassure the House that I do not intend to continue his tradition of filibuster on a Friday . I also wish to pay tribute to other member who have sit on these Benches and inspire I . there be the formidable Yorkshirewoman Betty Boothroyd , the first woman Speaker of the House . her courage give a teenage lass from Ilkley the idea that she might one day follow in her footstep , so I hope I can in time make my own contribution to the work of this House . Jo Cox be a contemporary of mine at Cambridge , and it be her life and horrific murder that spur I on to stand . on read her biography in 2017 , I write in my own diary : " the value she seek to reflect in the MP she be be also one I aspire to : to be brave , principle , focused , respected , ground . " these value will be the yardstick against which I will judge my own time in this place . it be usual to say something about the constituency I represent , and there be much to celebrate in the Shipley constituency from Wilsden to Windhill , Micklethwaite to Menston . we be home to the high flight of lock on the canal in Britain and the original setting for tv soap " Emmerdale " . however , I be go to focus on one place , Saltaire , a model village build by Sir Titus Salt , a philanthropist and mill owner . the mill be at the forefront of innovation in the wool trade and the large in Europe . salt provide decent housing and amenity for the worker , a library , a school — now home to Shipley college — and a church . he be wary of the demon drink , though , so no pub , although I be pleased to say that Saltaire now boast an excellent brewery . Salt understand that economic growth and lift people out of poverty go hand in hand , and I be proud that the Labour Government will ensure there be high - quality job for local people , end the trap of low - pay work and open up opportunity for people to train for the job of the future . I could tell hon . member about other inspire historical figure who hail from or have live in my constituency and be immortalise in the name of local building and road , or I could tell they about the many amazing volunteer who keep our community bloom , the independent business owner whose industry power our local economy and the local farmer whose toil put food on our plate , but I would like to tell they about those in my own life whose courage have give I courage . my great - grandfather Frederick Dixon fight and die on Flanders field in the first world war . my grandfather Herbert , true to his christian belief , refuse to serve in the military during the second world war and undertake other vital work . he die in a car accident that leave my grandmother Freda in a coma with brain injury . she learn to walk again , to feed herself and to write with her left hand . she live for another 30 year , albeit with disability and mainly housebound , but she could still beat all of we at scrabble . my late uncle David come to this country from Zambia on a scholarship and become the first black African to play golf for Oxford University — a golf legend 40 year before Tiger Woods hit the headline . my niece Martha , diagnose as autistic after struggle with mental health issue as a teenager , have have the courage to embrace her difference and find her way in the world . my family — in particular my mum and dad , who be in the Gallery — and my church teach I the value that I bring to my politic : that everyone should be able to live free from prejudice and discrimination , and that those of we who have plenty must share what we have and take action to lift people out of poverty and tackle inequality . I be proud to be a member of the Labour party , which be put those value into practice . there will be time in the come month for I to talk about the priority that I will deliver for the people of Shipley — get local gp and NHS dental service back for patient in place like Wrose , stop sewage dumping in the Wharfe and the Aire , have more neighbourhood police in village such as Denholme and Harden , revitalise our high street in Shipley and Bingley and support young people ' s mental health — but the final issue that I would like to highlight today be the contribution of family carer . my mum care for my grandma for many year , and it be her love and support that enable my grandma to go to church , take trip up the dale , see friend and family and have a good life . there be million of unsung hero like she , unpaid and undervalue . behind closed door across this country , an estimate 5 million people — mostly woman — be provide support and care to love one . I want to make they my priority in this place , and I will start by campaign for a review of the carer ' s allowance to ensure that hard - press carer be not penalise for take a part - time job to make end meet . I would like to end where I begin : with the word of Millicent Fawcett ring in my ear . courage call to courage everywhere . I will stand up for what I believe in and speak up for the people of Shipley constituency , and perhaps my courage will inspire another young Yorkshire lass to follow I into this place one day . as Betty would have say , time ' s up .