the memorandum of understanding — as you be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , have sign off on it in 2024 — be an agreement to create a policy framework that promote good environmental , social and governance practice in critical mineral , mining and processing . I be able to visit Indonesia in January specifically to raise concern about human right in Papua with the senior Minister for human right . the UK continue to support the visit by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and , through initiative such as the voluntary principle on security and human right , and the UK - Indonesia critical mineral MOU — sign off by you , Madam Deputy Speaker — the Government promote good practice on sustainability and respect for human right . the Lord Chancellor must be live in a parallel universe if she be give herself a pat on the back today . the truth be she have completely lose control of the justice system . she sit on her hand for week and take seven day to gather her thought and put her view in write to the Sentencing Council . her incompetence take this down to the wire . magistrate and judge be update by the press office of the Sentencing Council only at midday that the guideline due to come into force have in effect be suspend . that raise the very real prospect that magistrate and judge sit from 10 am this morning be unaware of this chaotic last - minute change and sentence people under guideline that the Justice Secretary herself have concede be two - tier . but it get bad . in that very email to thousand of judge and magistrate send just 90 minute ago , the Sentencing Council state : " we remain of the view that the guideline be necessary and appropriate " . confusion reign . they be be tell one thing by the Lord Chancellor and another by the Sentencing Council . who really be in charge here ? yet again , the Justice Secretary have be humiliate and undermine by activist judge seek to undermine the will of this place — our Parliament . her authority have be shred — she be be treat as a two - tier , second - tier Justice Secretary . this situation be entirely preventable if the Justice Secretary have simply put party politic to one side and back our Bill week ago to restore accountability and empower she to actually control justice policy , but the Labour party block it . if the Prime Minister have be trick into sit at the front of the dockland light railway think that he be in charge , as his chief of staff mock he for the other day , the Lord Chancellor have choose to sit there in the passenger seat allow the judiciary to take charge . she decide to be undecided , resolve to be irresolute , all - powerful to be impotent . even after this complete shamble , the Lord Chancellor will not even re - establish ministerial oversight . we be tell via frantic press briefing that her Bill , which we have not even see yet , will surgically remove these two - tier sentencing guideline . that do not tackle the root cause of the problem at all , which be an activist legal quango that hold view completely divergent to the public , to Parliament and — now we be tell — to the Government . unless she follow the formula of the Bill produce by conservative mp , we will be back here time and again to unwind the next piece of madness come out of the council . take the Sentencing Council ' s immigration guideline that water down sentence for immigration offence below the 12 - month threshold for automatic deportation : if publish , it will mean hundred of illegal migrant and foreign national offender will avoid deportation every single year . it will blow a hole in border security . it even water down the maximum life sentence for people smuggler that be legislate for just under a year ago . it completely disregard parliamentary sovereignty . at our last exchange , the Justice Secretary say there would be no two - tier justice on her watch . well , there it be — and it be bad than that . on 2 January , her own Department — not the Sentencing Council — publish guidance order the prioritisation of bail for ethnic minority and transgender people , continue a practice introduce under Gordon Brown . contrary to the misinformation peddle by her press office , the Department produce new guidance on pre - sentencing report that have be in force for month , which state that probation officer should consider the " culture " of an offender and whether they have suffer " intergenerational trauma " from " historical event " . well , that be cultural relativism , which violate the rule of law and put the british public at risk . this time , nobody be to blame other than she . it be her Department ; it be black and white ; it be two - tier justice . I have some question . will the Justice Secretary reassure the House that nobody be sentence this morning under guideline that she concede be two tier ? can she honestly say at the Dispatch Box that she have confidence in the head of the Sentencing Council , Lord Justice Davies , give that he have bring it into total disrepute — yes or no ? if she can , be she aware that he take to the airwave yesterday , in an astonishing departure from the expect standard of judicial conduct , to advocate for abolish short sentence , especially for hyper - prolific offender , effectively instruct low court to follow suit ? it be time for he to go , and if she will not sack he for that , what will it take ? do the Justice Secretary have confidence in Johanna Robinson , another member of the Sentencing Council , who take a moral objection to border control and describe the Illegal Migration Act 2023 as appal ? lastly , will the Justice Secretary change the guidance that her own Department be produce and which have create a two - tier Probation Service ? or be it , once again on her watch , two - tier justice under two - tier Keir ?