business before Questions Spoliation Advisory Panel Resolved , that an Humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction that there be lay before this House a Return of the Report from the Right Honourable Sir Alan Moses , Chairman of the Spoliation Advisory Panel , date 18 March 2024 , in respect of three oil sketch by Sir Peter Paul Rubens now in the possession of the Courtauld Institute of Art , London . — ( Aaron Bell . ) Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Serious Medical Conditions : Financial Support what step his Department be take to support financially people unable to work due to serious medical condition . my Department do a great deal to support the long - term sick and disabled , include through universal credit and its health element , and through the personal independence payment , which be a contribution to the additional cost of sickness and disability . my constituent Jenifer Picton be currently undergo extensive treatment for cancer and be consequently unable to work . I wish Ms Picton all the very good with her treatment . she have come to my office , which have help with universal credit , PIP and the new - style employment and support allowance . she have now manage to get PIP , but give that she be seriously ill , why should she have to come to my office for help ? why do we make it so arduous and difficult for people who need treatment to get help ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and the typical assiduity with which he take up his constituency case . may I send my good wish , and I be sure those of the whole House , to Ms Picton ? I be happy to meet he to discuss in more detail the circumstance that he have describe . datum in response to my write question on PIP appeal show that more than 50 , 000 ill or disabled people have their appeal uphold at tribunal without the need for new evidence . give that the UK Government will be examine today by the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities follow its 2016 special inquiry that find that the threshold have be meet for grave and systematic violation , be it not time to replace the flawed and outdated PIP system with a framework that be fit for purpose ? of course , we always keep all benefit under review at the Department , include PIP and the assessment process . as the hon . Lady point out , there be rightly an appeal process for those who be not happy with the conclusion of those assessment . we keep those under review , and I can reassure she that they represent a relatively small proportion of the total number of application . Regional Variations : unemployment and Inactivity what recent assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of regional variation in level of employment and inactivity . the regional employment gap be significantly low than in 2010 . Jobcentres take a place - base approach to deliver targeted support that reflect local need and the local economy . Health Equity North research show high level of economic inactivity in the north - east due to disability or ill health — 40 % above the national average . I visit the jobcentre in Newcastle and be very impressed by the dedication and hard work of the staff , but I know from the Public and Commercial Services union that one in four universal credit manager take time off in 2023 for mental illness , which be three time the figure before 2019 . we be the only country in the G7 not to have the same level of employment as before the pandemic . be those high rate not because of record NHS waiting list , low staff morale and general Government incompetence ? as the hon . Lady find , within our jobcentre we have highly skilled people help people to find work . we have a high number of people with disability in work than in 2010 — more than 2 million — and we intend to ensure that work coach can work carefully and sensitively and attend to people ' s need . in recent month , the Welsh Affairs Committee have hear from young adult about their experience with the benefit system . we have be strike by how this group of young people want to work and feel that they can work , but they have be write off as long - term sick and pass to the long - term sickness benefit roll by jobcentre . they feel incredibly let down . do the Minister agree that we can not afford to be sign off so many of our young people on long - term sickness ? that be why we have WorkWell , the back to work plan , and the occupational health group , lead by Dame Carol Black , look into fit note reform . it be also why we have youth employment coach and the youth hub . we be work to ensure that there be the right attenuate support , include kickstart , the sector - base work academy programme and boot camp . only last week , I meet Steph , who be 27 , 10 year out of work and grateful for the help that she have have . help People into Work what step he be take to help people into work . Jobcentre plus provide a variety of different support to encourage and support people into work , include training and one - to - one , face - to - face counselling by work coach . in February , there be 615 claimant age 18 to 24 out of work in Sittingbourne and Sheppey . do my right hon . friend agree that it be important that school and business work together to ensure that young people have the qualification and skill they need to progress into work once they finish full - time education ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . it be exactly why we have youth hub provide advice and support on not just get into work but other important matter to young people , such as housing , their health and debt management . I be talk to the Royal National Institute of Blind People , which represent the blind and partially sight . it tell I of an employee who say , " I be newly employ and I be unable to fulfil my role . it have be extremely stressful and frustrating " , and this be because of access to Work . do the Minister agree that without have Access to work in place within the first four week of someone enter work , it be incredibly difficult for they to maintain that position ? I be pleased that the hon . Lady raise Access to work , because it be extremely effective . the grant can be there year in , year out and be up to a maximum of £ 66 , 000 . along with other approach , it have very much lead to our meeting our employment goal for disabled people in half the time that we set in 2017 — over a million more disabled people be in work by 2022 . what be the Government do to use apprenticeship to help young people engage with the labour market , to tackle level of economic inactivity and to give they the opportunity they need to get the career that they want ? my right hon . friend raise economic inactivity , which be low in our country than in the United States , France and Italy . it be below the average of the OECD , the G7 and the European Union . apprenticeship play a very important part in produce those good figure , though there be of course always more to be do , not least through our approach of engage extremely closely with employer , both at the national level and through our jobcentre . as somebody who have fight really hard over the last four year to overcome the difficulty present by long covid , I be sure that the Secretary of State will appreciate that a significant number of the people not in work because of health condition will have some form of post - viral fatigue link to long covid . what assessment have he make of the effect of long covid on the workforce , and what be he do to help people who have it get back to work ? the hon . Gentleman specifically raise long covid , which be one of many health pressure in our society and post covid in many other country that be also affect by the virus . we have a number of approach , include universal support , which place people in employment and give they critical support for up to 12 month . we also have WorkWell , and we be look at occupational health and what tax incentive we might put in place to encourage employer to do more on that front . we be do a great deal . I call the shadow Minister . arguably , the big barrier to growth in the UK and to turn around the Prime Minister ' s recession be the supply of labour . follow the Chancellor ' s " back to work Budget " in the autumn and all the measure unveil since then , some of which the Secretary of State have just reel off , do the Office for Budget Responsibility upgrade or downgrade its forecast on employment growth in the Budget 12 day ago ? one of the most important figure in the spring Budget economic and fiscal outlook be a recognition by the OBR that there will be a net 200 , 000 more people in employment as a consequence of that fiscal event and the one that precede it in the autumn . what the hon . Lady can not get away from be that economic inactivity in our country be at a low level than in every year under the last Labour Government . what the Secretary of State can not get away from be the fact that , as have already be say , our employment rate have not return to the post - pandemic level . he can not answer the question because the truth be that the OBR downgrade its forecast : the unemployment forecast be bad . the reason for that be a truth that the british people have know for a long time now : these Ministers sit on the Treasury Bench have no idea , no plan for job , no plan for growth . they be do ; it be time for a general election . I have already refer to the 200 , 000 additional job that the OBR suggest in its forecast , but the hon . Lady can not get away from the fact that we have record level of payroll employment in our country , and near record low unemployment . let we contrast that with Labour ' s record : it always leave unemployment higher than when it come into office . economic inactivity be high than it be now in each year of the previous Labour Government , and we have more people in absolute poverty after housing cost under Labour as a direct consequence . welfare Reforms what his plan timetable be for the roll - out of welfare reform . we be bring forward a number of important reform to our welfare system at pace . phase 1 of our universal support have already be activate , and phase 2 will be later this year . next month we will announce 15 WorkWell area — about a third of England — that have be successfully select , and will be roll out live this autumn . I thank the Secretary of State for list all those reform . the data be clear that after 13 week out of work , the chance of someone find work start to fall off rapidly . therefore , there be a need for more intensive and tailor support . could he update the House on the additional jobcentre support roll - out , and when my constituent might get access to those benefit ? we be keen to do that . AJS , to which my hon . friend refer , have be roll out in part of the country at six week , but shortly will be extend and strengthen for two week at the 13 - week stage of the unemployment journey . that be part of the more intensive condition that we apply to ensure that we help — and in many circumstance , require — people to go back into work . some of the poor people I know in my constituency work for themselves . hill farmer have see a 41 % drop in their income over the last four year . the welfare system do not work for they , because they be pay less than the minimum wage . access to universal credit be less for they , because of the minimum income floor . will the Secretary of State urgently look at that , so that small business owner — especially hill farmer in my constituency — be not make even poor because of the Government ' s rule ? the hon . Gentleman be right inasmuch as universal credit for the self - employ have to recognise the fact that sometimes there be inconsistent level of income month to month . that be why we have a minimum income floor and the arrangement around that . I know he have a rural , agricultural constituency ; I recognise some of those issue , and I be look closely at they . Social Security benefit : vulnerable People what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of his Department ' s support for vulnerable people who claim social security benefit . [ in british Sign Language : " Happy Sign Language Week everybody . " ] it be a key priority for the Department for Work and Pensions to provide effective support for our vulnerable customer . we provide training on how to support customer ' mental health , and we have a six - point plan for support claimant who may be at risk of suicide or self - harm . the DWP regularly review process to make improvement through colleague and customer feedback , and through the work of the serious case panel . the Government estimate that 3 % of household on legacy benefit would fail to move to universal credit under manage migration . however , by last December , 21 % have not manage to do so and , as a result , have their benefit stop . this be a matter of real concern . the DWP will now ask more vulnerable people who be wholly reliant on benefit to transfer . what will the Government do to ensure that those vulnerable people do not fall out of the social security system ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point about vulnerable customer who have come into our curtilage and purview . the Minister for Employment have remind I that we will take this very slowly , and will engage with and support customer . customer can speak to help to claim adviser at Citizens Advice , and we will ensure that we listen to they . in addition to the financial support provide to personal independence payment claimant , what progress be be make to refer claimant proactively to the wide support available in their community ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight this point . there be the household support fund , help to claim , and opportunity to pop into the local library to get additional support , for example . there be also an extra £ 500 million out there on top of the £ 1 billion through to the end of this month . I would say to anybody : " the benefit calculator be out there , and do talk to the CAB and your local council " — perhaps in Swindon . today the Government be in Geneva defend their policy to the UN committee that be investigate the UK for breach of the convention on the right of person with disability , include article 28 on the right of disabled people to social protection . give that drastically cut disabled people ' s social security support between 2012 and 2019 and austerity be find to be responsible for 148 , 000 avoidable death , how will the new wave of austerity announce in the Budget affect the health and wellbeing of disabled people ? I be pleased to have this opportunity to make it clear to the House that the Government be commit to the UN convention on the right of person with disability and we look forward to outline the UK ' s progress on advance the right of disabled people across this country . our national disability strategy and the disability action plan be deliver tangible progress . this include ensure that disabled customer can use the service they be entitle to , as we have spell out today . disabled people ' s need be well reflect in planning for emergency as well . we be make sure that this country be the most accessible and , importantly , equal place to live in the world . I truly welcome and be personally grateful for my hon . friend ' s support for my campaign for parity between mental and physical health in the workplace , and for the recent publication of the national suicide prevention strategy , which reference two of the point I have be campaign on . I understand acutely that the Health and Safety Executive have work hard on update first aid guidance , and I would be grateful if the Minister could please update the House on this . the DWP be also proudly committed to become a more trauma - inform organisation , and we will be world - lead on that . I be pleased to see that in Hastings . the HSE continue to work with we , as do the Department of Health and Social Care , to support the suicide prevention strategy for England . I can confirm that the first phase of mental health guidance on the HSE website have be revise to include text that emphasise the importance of , and the need to consider , parity of risk to either mental or physical health . Job vacancy : Banff and Buchan what step he be take to help fill job vacancy in Banff and Buchan constituency . the jobcentre team be provide a broad range of support , include partner with Morrisons and the Co - op to fill local vacancy in my hon . friend ' s constituency and deliver target outreach at Banff library with local provider . my hon . friend be aware of the very low unemployment in Banff and Buchan and the difficulty in fill vacancy with local people , particularly in the food and drink sector . the seafood sector in particular be still in a transition away from dependency on overseas worker , which could take some year . what datum can the DWP provide on the measure that local business have take to maximise the employment of local people , and what other support can the Department offer to attract worker to area of low unemployment such as Banff and Buchan ? there be the wage pay through the rise in the national living wage , my hon . friend ' s local jobcentre and the range of access to support . I be sure we will be discuss all these issue tomorrow at the roundtable with seafood processor that I will be attend along with the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . a large number of people in Banff and Buchan be economically inactive . they be not claim benefit so they be not eligible for employment support from jobcentre , but the Select Committee recommend last summer that such people should be eligible . would that not be in their interest and in the interest of employer struggle to fill vacant post at the moment , and therefore supportive of much - need economic growth ? we always take these matter very seriously and keep they under full review . cost of living : Food Bank use what recent assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of change in the cost of live on level of food bank use . what recent assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of change in the cost of live on level of food bank use . food bank be independent organisation , with DWP have no direct role in their operation . we do , however , monitor the use of food bank through the family resource survey , and the next instalment of that will be later this month . nearly 50 , 000 people need help from Ealing Foodbank last year . some 38 % of they be child under 16 . it be amazing that the food bank and its volunteer be there to help , but it be a national shame that it be need . what be the Government ' s plan to reduce dependence on food bank ? this be the Government who have oversee a 400 , 000 reduction in the number of child in absolute poverty since 2010 . despite the chuntering from the Opposition Front Bench , unfortunately the figure be far bad under the last Labour Government than they may be at the moment . the hon . Gentleman ask directly what we be do . we be again put up the national living wage by substantially more than inflation this April . the Chancellor have already bring in national insurance cut that will be worth £ 900 to the average earner . benefit themselves be go up by 6 . 7 % next month . we have also change the arrangement for local housing allowance , which mean that 1 . 6 million people , many of whom be on very low income , will be well off by an average of £ 800 a year . while on the campaign trail , I meet the Daylight Centre and SERVE Rushden . both have see their service user increase in number , even with the extension of the household support fund , which they both welcome . what can the Secretary of State do to expand the eligibility of the fund , improve uptake and increase the value of the healthy start payment ? may I welcome the hon . Lady to her place ? in answer to her question , I will simply point out that there be much speculation before the spring Budget about whether the housing support fund be go to be extend . in my opinion , the Chancellor take exactly the right approach , and the fund have now be extend for a further six month . I call the SNP spokesperson . research from the Trussell Trust reveal the devastating truth : more than half of people receive universal credit run out of food in January and could not afford more , and 2 . 4 million universal credit claimant have fall into debt because they could not keep up with essential bill . will the Secretary of State back the Trussell Trust ' s joint campaign with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , and commit to legislate for an essential guarantee in universal credit to reduce food bank use and ensure that everyone have a protect minimum amount of support in order to afford life ' s essential — yes or no ? the most important thing be that this Government recognise that the good way out of poverty , and the good way to address the circumstance that the hon . Lady describe , be through work . that be why the Chancellor reduce taxation , make work pay ever more , and why the national living wage be to be increase by close to 10 % this April , follow a similar increase around this time last year . benefit be go up by 6 . 7 % and increase by 10 . 1 % this time last year . I have already mention local housing allowance , and of course we have now have eight consecutive month of real wage growth as inflation have fall . jobcentre : Darlington what step his Department be take to increase the support offer by Jobcentres in Darlington . the team be work tirelessly with Darlington Borough Council , Tees Valley Combined Authority and other partner to deliver through job fair , swap and skill bootcamp . I thank my hon . friend for her answer , and may I be the first in the Chamber to wish she a very happy birthday ? in addition to the issue that she have highlight , may I highlight the wonderful work that Darlington jobcentre have do in set up its Facebook page ? do she agree that it be a template for other to follow , and will she come to Darlington and meet my fantastic work coach ? I thank my hon . friend — it be seemingly quite a large number on my birthday card today . my hon . friend have be a fantastic champion of his local jobcentre , and have campaign vigorously to ensure that Darlington be at the forefront of innovation . I will be meet his team in April . I have be to seven jobcentre since the last DWP question , and I will make sure that his work coach be at the top of my list . the Minister , in her response to the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , have emphasise what she will do for his local jobcentre . whatever she will do for Darlington , she will also do for the rest of the United Kingdom , include my constituency of Strangford . across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , how can we work well with further education college to get our young people ready for the job that become available ? I talk regularly to colleague in the Department for Education , ensure that those skilled boot camp swap make people job - ready , because they have not only the experience but a guarantee interview . that be the way we be drive those number up . support for Pensioners what step his Department be take to support pensioner . what step his Department be take to support pensioner . what step his Department be take to support pensioner . in 2023 - 24 we will spend over £ 152 billion on benefit for pensioner in Great Britain — 5 . 9 % of gdp — include a forecast £ 125 . 4 billion on the state pension . I thank my hon . friend for his reply . south Derbyshire pensioner have be in touch with I follow the Budget , email to say that it seem to offer they nothing . would he be kind enough to set out today the help that the Government have give and be give to pensioner , to help they realise that " nothing " be far from the reality of what a Conservative Government be give they ? I be grateful for that question . the answer could not be far from nothing . this be a Government with a prove track record of support pensioner , include our commitment to the triple lock . in April we will see the state pension raise by 8 . 5 % this year , after an increase of 10 . 1 % last year , mean that it will be a full £ 3 , 200 high in cash term than it be in 2010 . I very much welcome the record on support pensioner that my hon . friend have just outline . a number of pensioner in my constituency have contact I about the effect of fiscal drag — they may have a very modest private pension that be now be drag into tax when they never expect it to be . what step be my hon . friend take in conjunction with the Treasury to ensure that we can get pensioner on modest private pension out of tax ? this be the Government who have nearly double the personal allowance since 2010 , ensure that most of the low earner do not pay income tax . indeed , thank to the personal allowance , around 30 % of individual do not pay tax , and of course any pensioner solely reliant on the state pension do not pay income tax . do my hon . friend agree with I that while the conservative proudly continue to support pensioner in their hard - earn retirement with the triple lock and other cost of live support measure , it be disgraceful that the Labour Mayor of London have hammer pensioner and work people in Bexley by increase council tax by approximately £ 200 per year , and ultra low emission zone charge to £ 12 . 50 per day ? I be sure my hon . friend agree with I that the Mayor of London seem to spend more time pay extremely expensive salary to some of his key employee around Greater London . of course ULEZ have an effect on pensioner : whether they be go to the shop , visit their family or attend hospital appointment , they will be the one to pay the price for the Mayor ' s overweene ambition . in early December , my constituent be inform by the DWP that they must renew their personal independence payment entitlement . they be tell that if the necessary form be not return by 13 January , their PIP could be stop . on Christmas day , the DWP inform my constituent that , as the form have not be return , their PIP entitlement have be stop and they owe some money . my constituent return the form in early January , long before the deadline , but they have have no response since then , and nor have they receive their benefit . could I implore the Minister to intervene in this astounding case and work out exactly how this error could have occur ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . if she write to I with further detail , I will ensure that the relevant Minister be able to look into the case . with more than 9 million pensioner now pay income tax — many , as we have just hear , as a result of frozen allowance — and almost 1 million not receive pension credit to which they be rightly entitle , do the Minister think it might be time to improve the uptake of pension credit ? I be pleased to be able to say that application to receive pension credit be currently increase , quarter on quarter . indicate dissent . if the hon . Gentleman will wait and listen to the answer , I will explain what we be do to increase uptake of pension credit . not only do we have major nationwide campaign , our late one feature Harry Redknapp ; we be also carry out experimental campaign , such as write to all those pensioner who be in receipt of housing benefit , to make sure that those most likely to be eligible for pension credit be be target to take it up . it be all very well people apply for pension credit , but the well advice centre in my constituency have identify massive delay in people get the pension credit for which they be eligible . one constituent get in touch with I in February , have apply for pension credit in August 2023 , and they be still wait for the application to be resolve , result in a backdating of more than £ 8 , 000 . would that money not have be much well in the pocket of a pensioner who need it right then , rather than wait indefinitely for the DWP to get back to they ? I be obviously disappointed to hear of that constituent ' s experience , but it be not something I hear very often about pension credit . we have an excellent delivery record and an extremely low level of complaint . southend ' s indomitable pensioner and WASPI woman Frances Neil and Deborah Dalton come to see I on Friday on behalf of the 10 , 000 waspi woman across Southend . with the ombudsman ' s final report due within week , will the Secretary of State please commit to come to the House to make a statement so that these issue can be fully air ? as I be sure my hon . friend be all too aware , I be not able to comment until the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s report be publish . when will this miserable Government wake up to the fact that there be a shortage of skilled labour in this country , and at the same time that we have an army of pensioner who could be retain in the workforce if they be give the right incentive to carry on work ? there be a good relationship between work and stay healthy , so will the Minister act ? I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman be volunteer himself for a post - Commons career , but there be many job opportunity for pensioner across the country . indeed , many people work on attendance allowance in my part of Blackpool be in their 70 and 80 , and they be do a fantastic job . we put an awful lot of effort , not just through the mid - life mot but through the old worker support in our jobcentre , to make sure that we match jobseeker to the right job for they . I call the shadow Minister . time and again , pensioner have be let down by this Government . they suspend the triple lock , break a key manifesto promise ; their disastrous mini - Budget knock hundred of billion of pound from pension pot ; and their failure to get a grip on the cost of living mean that pensioner be mainly live in cold home over the winter and have a choice between heating or eat . against this backdrop , be the Minister at all surprised that almost one in five pensioner be now live in poverty ? it be as if the shadow Minister have not notice the almost £ 900 of cost of living payment make to pension credit recipient across the country over the last year . I know the opposition have rely on last week ' s Resolution Foundation report to criticise what we be do , but this be what the report actually say : " ' Pensioners use to be by far the most likely to be in poverty … now they be the least likely . ' this change in the relationship between old age and low income be one of the most profound social and economic change this country have see " . we achieve that under this government , not under our fail Labour predecessor . rural Poverty : benefit System what step he be take through the benefit system to tackle poverty in rural area . we be bear down on poverty , not least by incentivise work within the benefit system . as the hon . Gentleman will know , we have reduce the universal credit taper , for example , which have lead to a record level of payroll employment and near record low unemployment . I commission a poverty report for the Arfon constituency from the highly respect Bevan Foundation — copy be available online in Welsh and English . one finding be that , of the people receive both universal credit and housing benefit in Arfon , 35 % be pay the bedroom tax , compare with 21 % across Wales . this be cushion to some extent by the Gwynedd local authority ' s discretionary help , but will the Minister review the differential negative effect of the bedroom tax between community , particularly those with a diminished housing stock because of , for example , high level of holiday home ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for refer to that report , which I will look at with interest . of course , there be no such thing as a bedroom tax , as it be not a tax at all ; it be a spare room subsidy . it be there for very good reason : to free up additional space for those who need it . on the housing front , as I say early , local housing allowance have be improve such that 1 . 6 million people on low income in the private rent sector will be , on average , £ 800 a year well off come April . one of the good way to tackle poverty in rural area such as Ynys M ô n be through job fair . will the Secretary of State join I in thank Alwen Gardiner and my brilliant Ynys M ô n DWP team for organise an excellent tourism and hospitality job fair , which be attend by over 150 jobseeker in Llangefni and company such as Tredici Butchers & Deli in Beaumaris , and the Breeze Hill in Benllech ? Diolch yn fawr . I thank my hon . friend for draw attention to her job fair . she be a local dynamo in stand up for her constituent . when I arrive there recently think I be very special to support yet another job fair — a disability job fair — I be quickly remind of the fact that I be the 32nd Minister to have be to her constituency in , I think , the past 12 month . housing benefit : Landlords what step he be take to tackle non - payment of housing benefit to district council when the beneficiary be not a register social landlord . the Supported Housing ( Regulatory Oversight ) Act 2023 bring reform to the support housing sector to improve quality and value for money . any change to funding model would need to be consider in the context of those broad reform , but we keep the subsidy policy under review . Charnwood Borough Council currently contribute £ 1 . 5 million a year to subsidise the support housing benefit payment to local charity , which be unable to become registered social landlord . the charity provide excellent support and accommodation to those suffer from addiction , or ex - offender undergo rehabilitation . however , the cost to the council be unsustainable . please will my hon . friend look at fund those service , as the Department for Work and Pensions currently do for similar organisation that be register social landlord ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . the challenging fiscal environment mean that we need to prioritise resource and ensure that support be target effectively to maximise impact for citizen . I chair a cross - Government group with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on quality issue and other matter , such as subsidy loss , which she raise . we will continue to review and monitor the concern that she and other local authority have raise . however , I point to the local housing allowance uplift , which be a central focus for I . personal Independence Payment Claims what recent estimate he have make of the average time it take for claimant to complete medical assessment for personal independence payment claim . we treat all claimant individually , recognise the differ need of health condition and disability , and the impact on claimant ' daily live . the length of time for an assessment be not include in the contract between the DWP and provider , but I can confirm that the average time for 2023 be 63 minute . I be heartbroken to hear the experience of a constituent who have to go through an enhance medical assessment for PIP . a bowel cancer survivor with severe arthritis , she be make to stay on a phone call for over three hour to be assess . that mean that , due to her need , she have to suffer the indignity of soil herself just to complete the assessment . how on earth can that be okay ? I would like to understand what step be be take to reduce the time of these assessment and to hear what can be do to ensure they be finally undertake with basic human compassion . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise a distressing case . the DWP be commit to assess people as quickly as possible . I be happy to look into that particular situation to see why , in this case , the support the claimant be entitle to do not come promptly . prioritise the reduction of processing time to maximise the number of assessment complete without affect quality be key , but I be very happy to take that case away . I call the shadow Minister . the Department for Work and Pensions have a staggering 288 , 000 outstanding PIP claim . the average clearance time be currently 15 week . People be wait almost four month for a decision , which can have a significant impact on physical and mental health . what be the Minister do to improve clearance time , so that people be not leave in limbo , worry about whether they can afford the extra cost associate with their disability or long - term health condition ? the Government urgently need to get a grip . claimant ' satisfaction have remain above the service level of 90 % or high as of the three - month average that begin in September 2016 . the end - to - end clearance time from registration to a decision be make be currently 15 week , which have be reduce from 26 week in August 2021 . [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady ask very gently what we be do . we have multi - channel assessment and I be engage regularly with my official twice a month to ensure that we be assess the queue and the delay and , as I say at the start of this question , that we be treat everybody individually and in a tailored and suitable way . child Poverty what step his Department be take to help reduce the number of child in poverty . what step his Department be take to help reduce the number of child in poverty . we be reduce child poverty through the use of a large number of measure , not least ensure that work pay , hence our increase in the national living wage in April and the reduction in the national insurance tax that my right hon . friend the Chancellor announce recently . a total of 100 , 000 child will be keep clear of poverty this year thank to the Scottish Government ' s policy — primarily the scottish child payment . surely the Secretary of State must now look to roll out some of our policy in other part of the UK and , at the very least , ditch the two - child limit , which deliberately force child into poverty . the limit to which the hon . Gentleman refer be there for a very good reason , which be that people in those circumstance should face the same basic decision as those not on benefit . that be an important matter of fairness across those who receive benefit as well as the many who be pay tax . as for the number of child in poverty , that have fall by 400 , 000 since 2010 . many of those people be in work , Secretary of State . some £ 14 million have be pay to more than 10 , 000 child ' s family in Renfrewshire thank to the widely praise scottish child payment . praise have come from the Institute for Public Policy Research Scotland , which say that the Scottish Government be make employment for parent central to their child poverty strategy , but it say that devolve employment support programme be " hold back by responsibility be split across government and a reserved Jobcentre system which be more often focus on compliance than help people reach their full potential . " it recommend the full devolution of employment support to tackle child poverty . will the Secretary of State listen to the expert ? I be always very interested in listen to the hon . Gentleman and any idea that he have about how we should improve our welfare system , but I point to the fact that this country have see a considerable drop in absolute child poverty , after housing cost , of 400 , 000 since 2010 . what correlation do the Secretary of State see between child in poverty and workless family ? give that there be no age restriction on most apprenticeship , and today ' s announcement that there will be 20 , 000 more apprenticeship and that the apprenticeship levy can be spend on great number of contractor and sub - contractor , what opportunity do he see for his Department to highlight those opportunity for people who be of work age and who may have child in poverty ? my hon . friend refer to workless household . he be absolutely right about the correlation : a child be five time more likely to be in poverty if they be grow up in a workless household . he be right to draw attention to the announcement that have be make today about even great investment in apprenticeship , and also the change in the way that the apprenticeship levy work so that supply chain can benefit to a great degree . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . may I join the House in say happy birthday to the Minister for Employment , my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) ? it should be a national holiday as far as I be concern — perhaps that be an idea for a private Member ' s Bill , or something similar . I be pleased that , since the last question , we have publish our review into autism employment , and I place on record my thank to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) who do such excellent work in bring that useful report forward . look forward from April , we will see benefit generally rise by 6 . 7 % , the state pension by 8 . 5 % , the national living wage by around 10 % , and the next tranche of the household support fund be bring forward . as I have already set out , our plan be work . it mean more employment , historically low unemployment and an economic inactivity rate below country such as the United States , France and Italy . the economic inactivity rate be now very high , with 2 . 8 million people cite long - term sickness as a reason . some 17 million day of work be lose , at a cost of £ 13 billion to the economy . have the Secretary of State see the Policy Exchange report publish today , with policy proposal back by two of his predecessor , David Blunkett and my right hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) ? what step be the Government take to improve the provision of workplace health service through occupational health pathway and vocational rehabilitation , and will he consider the 15 proposal in the Policy Exchange report ? I will of course look closely at the report that my right hon . friend refer to ; indeed , I reach out to he recently to invite he to the Department to discuss that and other matter . with regard to long - term sickness and disability , we be work on an array of intervention , include occupational health support within business ; WorkWell , bring together medical intervention with work coach ; universal support to help people into work , and to stay in work with that support ; and fundamental reform of the work capability assessment , such that the OBR say that 371 , 000 few people will go on to those benefit go forward . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the Budget , the Chancellor say that he want to end national insurance contribution because the " double taxation of work be unfair . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 851 . ] People ' s nic record help to determine their entitlement to the state pension , so if national insurance be scrap how will they know what pension they will get ? I be not surprised that the hon . Lady bring that up , because I be well aware of the position that her party have take on the announcement that we have make . she will be clear in her own mind that the Chancellor have not guarantee that we will reduce at one stroke national insurance contribution ; it be an aspiration that have be speak about as occur over a number of year , if not Parliaments , so the problem that she be conjure up to frighten pensioner be nothing short of political scaremongering . the Secretary of State can bluster and deny all he like , but the Prime Minister tell the Sunday Times : " we want to end this double taxation on work " . it be there in black and white , so let I try again . how will people ' s pension entitlement be determine if nic be scrap , and if the Government be go to merge nic with income tax what will that mean for pensioner ' tax bill ? be the truth not that their unfunded £ 46 billion plan to scrap nic be yet more chaos from the Conservatives , and Britain ' s pensioner deserve so much well ? the hon . Lady quote from the Sunday Times , and I scribble it down : " we want to end this double taxation " . of course we do , but that be not the same as a near - term pledge ; it be a long - term aspiration — [ interruption . ] we have be quite upfront , quite unlike — [ interruption . ] if she would care to hear I out , it be quite unlike the £ 28 billion firm commitment that her party make , and subsequently u - turn on , which be nothing short of fiscally reckless , and would have lead to increase in interest rate , inflation , unemployment , and so on . I extend my gratitude to the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work for recently hold a menopause roundtable that be particularly focus on employment in tourism and hospitality , and to Gatwick airport for host it . what step will the menopause employment champion take next ? I be delighted about the regional roundtable , include in the leisure and hospitality sector , oil and gas , and education , among other . they be inform the sector work of the menopause employment champion , and her one - year report be now available , showcase a variety of stakeholder ' perspective , and outcome for woman who need support . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Resolution Foundation highlight that scrap the two - child limit would be one of the most efficient way to drive down child poverty rate , and would lift 490 , 000 child out of poverty overnight . surely one child grow up in poverty be one child too many . the Secretary of State should reverse course on this , and the Labour party should also commit to scrap the two - child limit . do the Secretary of State agree that no child should grow up in poverty , and will he take action to ensure that that stop now ? the hon . Lady raise the same point as her colleague , the hon . member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . McDonald ) , about the two - child limit . I will not detain the House by repeat exactly the same answer , other than to agree passionately with she that one child in poverty be one too many , and to say that , although we have far to go , it be important to recognise that we have reduce the number of child in absolute poverty , after housing cost , by 400 , 000 since 2010 . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for disability , I thank the Minister for recognise Sign Language Week in the Chamber . it be so important for disability inclusion in the workplace . will she recommend that hon . member from across the House meet representative of the British Deaf Association , who be now welcome people in Dining Room A at an event I be co - sponsoring ? I be delighted to welcome Sign Language Week , which be mark its 21st anniversary of recognise british Sign Language as a language in its own right . I encourage member to join the British Deaf Association reception after these question have end . the Government will move thousand of my constituent across to universal credit over the next year . they will be force to wait five week for their first payment or up to nine week if they receive child or work tax credit . accord to DWP datum , 60 % of the people across Merseyside who be in that situation will take out an advance loan . do the Minister think it right that my constituent , who be among the most deprived in the country , should be push into debt or face week without the bare minimum that they need to afford the essential ? the plan be to roll out those migration notice by 31 March . we intend to publish datum for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . we be committed to ensure that the transition work as smoothly as possible for everyone . have the Minister make any recent assessment of what trade or occupation be short of worker at the moment , and what step be be take to persuade people — perhaps more experienced people — back into the workforce to fill those vacancy ? we be work with other Departments , employer and stakeholder to isolate where those vacancy be , and on sector - base work academy programme . we have put over 266 , 000 people through construction , care , tourism , hospitality — all those gap that we need to fill . of people currently claim tax credit , 20 % be not move over to universal credit in the migration . the Department tell we that those who be not claim would have get a median amount of £ 3 , 200 a year . will the Minister assure I and the House that she be do everything she can to ensure that people be get the money that they be owe ? I assure the hon . Lady that we be keep a close eye on the issue , but ultimately it be the customer ' s responsibility to claim . I gently point out that we have be roll out the migration in her constituency since May ' 23 , with not one complaint . there be plenty of help available to those people as they transition . as my right hon . friend will know , fast diagnosis and treatment be key to get people back into work . what representation have he make to his departmental and Cabinet colleague to ensure that that be the case ? I thank my hon . friend and near neighbour for her question — I know that she care deeply about the issue that she have raise . we work closely with other Departments . for example , we work with the Department of Health and Social Care on NHS talk therapy , of which we have announce 400 , 000 more over the next five year , as well as on WorkWell , which I have mention , and on fit note reform . with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , we be work closely on housing — I have speak about the local housing allowance change come through — and with the Department for Education we be work on swap , and on training and apprenticeship . school , general practitioner , social service , charity and housing association can all refer their client to a food bank in an emergency , yet this Government , who be responsible for benefit sanction , have order DWP staff to stop refer claimant to food bank . how can minister justify this decision to the family of the 4 , 027 child live in poverty in my east Durham constituency ? may I make it clear that that be just scaremongere ? the DWP have not change its policy . there be merely improvement be make to the signpost slip , so that we comply with our obligation under the GDPR . we continue to provide guidance to customer , signpost they to emergency support , as be right . a couple in my constituency recently receive an apologetic letter from the Department for Work and Pensions that set out a catalogue of mistake that it have make . those mistake almost lead to their lose their home , which cause they enormous stress . my constituent be now wait for a decision on the compensation that they may receive . will my right hon . friend look into the case , and ensure that a decision be take as quickly as possible , to save my constituent any further stress ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . I obviously can not comment on an individual case . however , I be very happy to look closely into the matter he have raise , and either I or a relevant Minister will be happy to meet he . the number of the long - term sick have rise from 2 . 1 million pre - pandemic to 2 . 8 million today . this huge increase start in spring 2021 , at the same time as the roll - out of the experimental , emergency - use vaccine — or do the Secretary of State have an alternative explanation for the unprecedented rise in long - term sickness in the UK since spring 2021 ? among the major driver of the increase to which the hon . Gentleman refer be mental health issue and musculoskeletal issue . I be not entirely sure that he be accurate when he say that the upward trajectory in the number occur just as vaccination occur — I think it predate that moment — and I certainly do not subscribe to the view that vaccination be in any way unsafe . for many year , the Department publish statistic give a breakdown of welfare claim by nationality . although the Department still have the datum , it no long publish the statistic . will the Minister look again at that , and start publish those important statistic once again ? I thank my hon . friend , but I would like to inform he that at the moment there be no plan to recommence the publication of those statistic . the last Labour Government lift 1 million child out of poverty . after 14 year of Tory Government , we have 1 million child in destitution . what have go wrong ? I have to take issue with the hon . gentleman . he need to look more closely at his party ' s record in government . fact no . 1 be that the Labour party always leave office with high unemployment . fact no . 2 be that economic inactivity in our country be low than in any year in his party ' s time in office . fact no . 3 be that absolute poverty have decline in our country since his party be in office . fact no . 4 be that there be more child in workless household on his watch than there be on our . perhaps most tellingly of all , during his party ' s time in office , over 1 million people languish on long - term benefit for almost a decade . that be a disgraceful record . one of the most challenging group of people to get back into the workforce be those in their 50 and 60 whose job disappear during covid . they have possibly fall back on their personal pension , although with inflation , that money be be eat away . what action be my hon . friend take to get those people back into work , and to encourage they into job that be valuable and improve our productivity ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I would ask people to go to their jobcentre , which can help they build their cv and their confidence . we have 50plus champion across all district , and midlife mot . I for one think that work in my 50 — and now my 60 — be a very good idea indeed . the two wellbee hub in my constituency , in Brora and Dunbeath , be crucial to the wellbeing of pensioner . they signpost the good mix of benefit and be a last safety net , but their future be uncertain because of the vagary of NHS Scotland finance . will a Minister meet I to discuss how we can safeguard the future of these two centre ? I be always happy to have a debate with the hon . gentleman . we sit next to each other almost every morning in Portcullis House , and I be sure that we can have a conversation . Aylesbury be a wonderful place to live , work , visit and invest in , but sadly we have some area of economic deprivation . Opportunity Bucks , run by Buckinghamshire Council , have identify Aylesbury north and Aylesbury north - west as area for extra attention , where we could improve education , training and skill . how can my hon . friend ' s Department assist such initiative in get more Aylesbury resident into work ? we be work with employer and jobcentre on the sector - base work academy programme and boot camp , but I be more than happy to visit my hon . friend in Aylesbury , and to talk to his jobcentre and employer , to see how we can provide more encouragement . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . over the weekend , I see on social medium that a number of Labour Members have the good judgment to visit the beautiful Bishop Auckland constituency , and while I be grateful to the one Member who give I notice of their visit , that be in stark contrast to the four Members — the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , and the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) , for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , and for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) — who do not have the good judgment to follow your advice , Mr Speaker , and notify I as the sit MP . I have let they know of my intention to raise this issue in the Chamber today . could you advise the House once again on how we can ensure that member give notice of a visit to another Member ' s constituency ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give I notice of this point of order and inform the Members concern . the courtesy apply to any visit make in an official capacity . I know that election fever have take over , but I remind the House once again that , as I say on 29 November and 22 January , when a Member intend to visit another constituency other than in a private capacity , they should make every reasonable effort to inform the Member represent that constituency . boundary change do not take effect until the next election , and in the meanwhile we must observe the convention of not involve ourselves with other Members ' constituency . I have have complaint from member on both side of the House . please do the right thing and stick to the convention that we expect each other to follow . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . on Thursday 14 March , during business question , in response to a question from the hon . member for Colne Valley ( Jason McCartney ) about council spending , the Leader of the House say that Labour have a " legacy " of " vote - rig " in Tower Hamlets . that be a false claim . I wonder if the right hon . Lady get her party confused , as there be a widely report case in 2015 in which the Election Commission and Richard Mawrey void the mayoral election of 2014 under the Representation of the People Act 1983 on the ground of corrupt and illegal practice , but that relate to the activity of a party name Tower Hamlets first , and have nothing to do with Tower Hamlets Labour party or the national Labour party . can you offer advice , Mr Speaker , on whether and when the Leader of the House can come to the House to set the record straight ? the Leader of the House be here . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I take such matter extremely seriously , and in the past when I have misspoken or get a fact wrong , I have correct the record . however , if I be guilty of anything in our exchange last Thursday , it be of underplay the situation . the incident that the hon . Lady refer to do indeed involve an independent politician , although back by Ken Livingstone . however , in the year 2018 alone , there be 40 new case of corruption under the then Labour Mayor John Biggs , and the incident I refer to be labour ' s legacy because just a few week ago , Government inspector be call in again to investigate Tower Hamlets . I fully understand it if the hon . Lady do not want to take my word for it , so I direct she to a letter write to her party ' s national executive committee in 2016 about a local selection . it be write on behalf of member of the local Labour party . it say : " on behalf of a number of distressed member the Tower Hamlets Labour Party who have be victim of intimidation , bullying , harassment and blackmailing by member of John Biggs ' campaign team ; some of whom be senior and leading figure of the local Labour Party " . if she look up the letter and see who be signatory to it , she may be more persuade . Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Bill Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 56 ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . question put forthwith , that the Bill be now read the third time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 12 December 2023 ( Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) bill : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at 8 . 00pm at today ' s sit . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) proceeding on the first of any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . ( 4 ) proceeding on any subsequent message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill consideration of Lords amendment I can confirm that none of the Lords amendment engage Commons financial privilege . clause 1 - introduction I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss Lords amendment 2 to 10 , and Government motion to disagree . this Bill be an essential element of our wide strategy to protect our border , and to stop the boat to prevent the tragic loss of life at sea cause by dangerous , illegal and unnecessary crossing of the channel . there be 10 Lords amendment . first , I turn to amendment 1 . it imply that the legislation be not compliant with the rule of law , but I can confirm that it be . I do not accept that the Bill undermine the rule of law , and the Government take our responsibility and international obligation incredibly seriously . there be nothing in the Bill that require any act or omission that conflict with our international obligation . the Minister will understand that many of we be deeply concerned that the Bill undermine the Good Friday agreement . he have tell we previously that it do not , but he will also know that the Irish Parliament have be consider this matter . indeed , on 20 February , the irish Prime Minister admit that the Irish Government be concern and be follow this debate closely . for the avoidance of doubt , can the Minister tell we when the UK Government consult the Irish Government about this legislation , and about our obligation under the Good Friday agreement ? what be the outcome of that consultation ? I be concern with this Government and this Parliament . as for our obligation , nothing in the Bill require any act or omission that conflict with our international obligation . in fact , this Bill be base on compliance by both Rwanda and the United Kingdom with international law in the form of a treaty that recognise and reflect the international legal obligation of both the United Kingdom and Rwanda . at least the Minister respond to our question and try to address the issue . the last time I ask a question on this matter , he try to answer it , but the fact be that because of Northern Ireland ' s border with the Republic of Ireland , it have special circumstance . we be reassure then about Northern Ireland ' s circumstance ; the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) refer to the Good Friday agreement , which be one example , but there be also the matter before we . can the Minister confirm that the concern that the Democratic Unionist party put forward in our last debate on this issue have be take on board ? we do not see that from the legislation before we tonight , and if we do not see that , it will be hard for we to support the Government . I do recall our early exchange across the Chamber , and the hon . Gentleman may know of my exchange with his hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and the subsequent correspondence . the Government continue to believe that there be no incompatibility between the Bill and article 2 of the Windsor framework . I know the hon . Gentleman have be concern about that , but I hope he be reassure by some of the detail set out in the letter . I must say I be surprised that the Government be not concerned about the clash between the Bill and article 2 of the Windsor framework and the Northern Ireland protocol , give that the High Court in Belfast have rule that legislation of this nature can not apply in Northern Ireland because it be incompatible with the obligation in article 2 to accord with european law . I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern , but I repeat that there be no incompatibility between article 2 and the Bill . he be right to cite the judgment , but there be to be an appeal , so it would not be right to debate it far at this stage . the Government ' s position on this point be very clear , as set out in previous exchange and also in the letter that be now in the House of Commons Library . Rwanda can not be deem a safe country for refugee simply as a result of a unilateral declaration by the Government in the face of the court and other independent organisation that have prove the contrary to be the case . but let I get this straight : it will cost nearly £ 600 million for just 300 refugee to be send on a plane to Rwanda , which amount to an eye - water £ 2 million cost per person to the public purse . do the Minister agree that that be precisely why this political gimmick of a Rwanda Bill be extortionate , unethical , unworkable and unlawful ? I disagree entirely with all the point that the hon . Gentleman have make ; I know that he be patient , and he will hear I respond to each and every one . like I , the Minister have always believe that immigration should be deal with on a UK rather than a Great Britain basis , for obvious reason . give the comment that we have just hear , do he agree that there be plenty of precedent within our own law for deem certain claim for certain citizen inadmissible ? that have apply to the EU , and surely it be not a problem to extend it far , because we already have the principle that we can say a claim be inherently unfounded when a country be clearly safe . I agree entirely with my hon . friend , who speak with great experience and authority . he will be aware of other instance in which we have legislate and continue to legislate , and have deem country to be safe . my right hon . and learn Friend be make a good case for the importance of the Bill and the irrelevance of the amendment offer by the other place to what we be try to achieve . do he agree that when people criticise the Bill on the ground of the cost of send people to Rwanda , they entirely miss the point that this will act as a huge disincentive to people in family and community , predominantly in the middle east , who fundraise vast sum of money in order for their child to arrive here in the UK and not end up in east Africa ? do he also agree that the accusation base on cost hugely underestimate the actual cost of housing current illegal immigrant in hotel across the country ? my hon . friend be entirely right on both count . I will develop the point about the deterrent effect in a few moment , because it be a point that be miss repeatedly by the Labour Members . he be also right about the cost , and the cost of not act — not least the human cost of not act . rise — I be go to make some progress now . the Bill be base on the compliance of both Rwanda and the United Kingdom with international law in the form of the treaty , which itself reflect the international legal obligation of both the UK and Rwanda . along with other country with similar constitutional arrangement to ours , we have a dualist approach ; international law be treat as separate to domestic law , and international law be incorporate into our law by Parliament , through legislation . this Bill reflect the fact that Parliament be sovereign and can change domestic law as it see fit , include , if it be Parliament ' s judgment , by require a state of affair or fact to be recognise . that be the central feature of the Bill , and many other provision be design to ensure that Parliament ' s conclusion on the safety of Rwanda be accept by the domestic court . the treaty set out the international legal commitment that the UK and Rwandan government have make , consistent with their share standard associate with asylum and refugee protection . we have make it abundantly clear that we assess Rwanda to be a safe country , and that we be confident in the Government of Rwanda ' s commitment to the partnership in order successfully to offer safety and protection to those relocate under the treaty . I be unable to accept Lords amendment 2 as be it simply not necessary . Rwanda have a long and proud history of support and integrate asylum seeker and refugee into the region . the Government of Rwanda , the African Union and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees sign an agreement to continue the operation of the emergency transit mechanism centre in Rwanda , which temporarily accommodate some of the most vulnerable refugee population , who have face trauma , detention and violence . Rwanda have showcase its willingness and ability to work collaboratively to provide solution to refugee situation and to crisis . it be worth reflect on the policy statement and some of the evidence that have be put forward in relation to this debate and previous debate , because there it be clear that the EU have announce a € 22 million support package to the emergency transit mechanism . the ambassador have say that it " be a crucial life - save initiative to evacuate people … to safety in Rwanda . it be a significant example of african solidarity and of partnership with the European Union . " the point the Minister have not mention be that the european scheme be voluntary . be the Government intend the same sort of parameter within this scheme ? on the safety of Rwanda , the ambassador be very clear about his assessment ; I be go to continue read the quote , but there be other . there be more than 135 , 000 refugee safely in Rwanda and be look after . the ambassador go on to say : " we be grateful to the Government of Rwanda for host these man , woman and child until such time , durable solution can be find . " there be evidence of the safety of Rwanda . the Minister say that he be accept the word of the Rwandan Foreign Minister that the country be safe , yet our judge in the high court of our country have decide that Rwanda be not safe — so be our Minister say that the high judge in our land be wrong ? no . respectfully , I encourage the hon . Lady to listen to the debate , because I read out the word of the EU ' s ambassador , not of any representative from Rwanda . that be a powerful independent voice , which be why I cite it here in this Chamber . the implementation of all measure within the treaty will be expedite . indeed , since our previous debate on this matter , the legislation require for Rwanda to ratify the treaty have pass through both Houses of the Rwandan Parliament . once ratify , the treaty will become law in Rwanda . the implementation of these provision in practice will be keep under review by the independent monitoring committee , whose role be enhance by the treaty and which will ensure compliance with the obligation as agree . do the Minister recall that the Supreme Court judgment hinge on the issue of refoulement and not on whether or not refugee be safe in Rwanda ? it might benefit some to have listen to its judgment . I be grateful indeed to my hon . friend ; I will turn to refoulement and non - refoulement , and that important issue , which be exactly the basis of the Supreme Court judgment , and how we have meet it through evidence from subsequent to the time when the Supreme Court be look at the fact on the ground . the implementation of these provision in practice will be keep under review by the independent monitoring committee . as be state clearly in clause 9 of the Bill , the provision will come into force when the treaty enter into force , and the treaty enter into force once the party have complete their internal procedure . the Bill ' s purpose be to make it clear that Rwanda be safe generally and that decision maker , as well as court and tribunal , must conclusively treat it as such . the amendment as draft would open the door to lengthy legal challenge , which will delay removal . it therefore follow that I can not support the amendment . we be confident in the Government of Rwanda ' s commitment , and I be clear that Rwanda be a safe country . I turn to Lords amendment 3 , which be also unnecessary . the Government will ratify the treaty only once we agree with Rwanda that all necessary implementation be in place for both country to comply with the obligation under the treaty . as I say , the legislation for Rwanda to ratify the treaty have now pass through both Chambers of the Rwandan Parliament . once ratify , the treaty will become law in Rwanda . it therefore follow that the Government of Rwanda would be require to give effect to the term of the treaty in accordance with their domestic law as well as in international law . in relation to the monitoring committee , it be always intend that the committee be independent to ensure a layer of impartial oversight over the operation of the partnership . maintain that committee ' s independence be an integral aspect of the policy ' s design . the treaty enhance the role of the previously establish independent monitoring committee and will ensure that obligation to the treaty be adhere to in practice . the detail of the monitoring committee be set out in article 15 of the treaty , and it , in turn , will report to a joint committee make up of both United Kingdom and rwandan official . there will be daily monitoring of the partnership for at least the first three month — the enhanced period of time — to ensure rapid identification and response to any shortcoming . the enhanced phase will ensure that there be comprehensive monitoring and reporting and that that take place in real time . the amendment risk disturb the independence and impartiality of the monitoring committee and therefore should be resist . I turn to Lords amendment 4 and 5 , and the issue of Rwanda ' s safety . we have already touch on this , but it be clear that the Bill ' s purpose be to respond to the Supreme Court ' s concern and enable Parliament to confirm the status of Rwanda as a safe third country to enable removal of those who arrive in the United Kingdom illegally . to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) , it be the treaty , the Bill and the publish evidence pack that together demonstrate that Rwanda be safe for relocate individual and that the Government ' s approach be tough but fair and lawful . the Government be clear that we assess Rwanda to be safe , and we have publish evidence to substantiate that point . with reference to the point make by the hon . member for Torbay about the basis of the Supreme Court ' s decision , I be sure that , like I , the Minister will have read the decision carefully . do he agree that paragraph 75 to 105 make it clear that there be three reason for the Supreme Court ' s decision ? it be base on evidence : first , about the general human right situation in Rwanda ; secondly , about the adequacy of Rwanda ' s current asylum system ; and thirdly , about Rwanda ' s failure to meet its obligation in a similar agreement regard asylum seeker with Israel in 2013 . will he tell I what have happen since the Supreme Court ' s decision to improve the general human right situation in Rwanda ? he will be aware that the Home Office publish a 137 - page document date January this year detail concern about human right in Rwanda . in fact , that document support the Government ' s position , because the evidence put forward be balanced . the accusation from opposition party that somehow partisan evidence have be put before the Chamber be completely wrong and be refute by the hon . and learn Lady ' s own point . she , as Chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , have just be to Rwanda to see for herself — we have an exchange on that last week — and I look forward to her Committee ' s report . the answer be the treaty , the Bill and the publish evidence pack . in the Bill be the conclusive presumption that Rwanda be generally a safe country . my question be this : in January this year , the British Government , through the Home Office , publish a 137 - page document about the human right situation in Rwanda , detail serious concern from such august body as the US State Department about the protection of human right on the ground in Rwanda , so what have change since the Home Office publish that note in January ? the Minister have not answer that question . if he can not answer it , then this House can not say that Rwanda be a safe country . the answer be that the hon . and learn Lady must not cherry - pick her evidence . the evidence must be look at in the round . as I say , it be the treaty , the Bill and the publish evidence together . the hon . and learn Lady may not have confidence in our international partner to abide by their treaty , but this government do . the Government of Rwanda will abide by their treaty . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way . there be a conclusive presumption in the Bill that Rwanda be generally a safe country . there be a series of fact reinforce by statute . the court have not conclude that there be a general risk to the safety of relocate individual in Rwanda . rather , as we have repeatedly set out , the treaty respond to the Supreme Court ' s finding . the assurance we have have , since negotiate in our legally bind treaty with Rwanda , directly address the finding . they make detailed provision for the treatment of relocate individual in Rwanda , ensure that they will be offer safety and protection with no risk of refoulement . respectfully , that respond directly to the point that be raise . be the Minister aware of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ' comment ? it say : " UNHCR will build on the favourable protection environment through continue advocacy and technical support to " the Government of Rwanda . it go on to say that it be move from a humanitarian approach to a developmental approach , so that people will be able to have the chance of a livelihood and a safe environment to build their life for the future . be this not exactly what Rwanda want to put across to people who find themselves there ? my hon . Friend prove the point I just make , that it be the evidence in the round that must be consider . I be grateful to he for draw that to Parliament ' s attention . will the Minister give way ? I have give way twice to the hon . and learn Lady , so I will make progress . we have be clear that the purpose of this legislation be to stop the boat , and to do that we must create a deterrent . that go to the point of my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) . will the Minister give way ? I have already give way to the hon . Gentleman , so I will make progress . that show that if you enter the United Kingdom illegally , you will not be able to stay . we can not allow systematic legal challenge to continue to frustrate and delay removal . those Opposition Members who support this amendment do not mind if there be continue legal challenge that frustrate and delay removal , but we on this side be not support the amendment . it be right that the scope for individualised claim remain limited . on that point about the deterrent , will the Minister give way ? no , I be go to move on to amendment 6 . amendment 6 seek to enable United Kingdom court and tribunal to grant interim remedy . as I have previously state , one of the core principle of the Bill be to limit the challenge that can be bring against the general safety of Rwanda . this amendment completely undermine the purpose of the Bill and be not necessary . I thank the Minister for give way . the Rwanda plan will not work as the deterrent that minister claim it will , not least because it will only account for less than 1 % of all those seek to cross the channel irregularly . where be the plan for the other 99 % ? will the Minister concede that instead of fix their broken asylum system , the Conservatives have spend an eye - water £ 5 . 4 billion on this , include over £ 4 billion on asylum hotel and accommodation ? that be what be at the crux of the matter , and that be what they need to resolve . on deterrence , which I think be the thrust of the question , the Albania scheme bring into effect by the Prime Minister back in December 2022 prove the deterrent effect . crossing on small boat by those from Albania be down 90 % as a result of that agreement . that show the deterrent effect . lord amendment 6 completely undermine the purpose of the Bill . it be unnecessary because the Bill already contain appropriate safeguard to allow decision maker and the court to consider claim of an individual person in particular circumstance , if there be compelling evidence . the House will know that I be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . the people who go through the system and go to Rwanda need to have their religious belief protect , whether they be Christians , or belong to other religion or no religion . my concern be that when they get to Rwanda , that protection may not be as strong as that which they have here . can the Minister give some assurance that people ' s religious belief will have the same protection ? I know how seriously the hon . Gentleman take this important issue . there be a policy of non - discrimination in the rwandan constitution , which will provide some reassurance . the monitoring committee be also there on a daily basis . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that point . we have make it clear that we can not continue to allow relocation to Rwanda to be frustrate and delay as a result of systemic challenge on general safety . on amendment 7 , we need a strong deterrent to stop people put their life at risk by cross the channel . while create that deterrent , it be important that the Government take decisive action also to deter adult from claim to be child . my right hon . and learn Friend be right that it be essential that protection be in place to ensure that adult do not masquerade as child , to safeguard all those concerned . however , he will be aware , as be raise in the Lords , that the age assessment criterion be to be introduce in 2022 — [ interruption . ] my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) agree . the criterion still have not come into effect at the border in Dover and Manston . will the Minister assist the House by explain how there can be confidence about age assessment and how it can be game if the amendment be agree ? I note some vigorous nodding from my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) . my hon . friend be right that we need to introduce scientific age assessment . our european and international friend and ally do so , and we must get that scheme up and run . there be nothing in amendment 7 that directly affect that or the 2022 policy , so I encourage she to be reassure on that point . I will take away her encouragement to expedite that and I be grateful for her intervention , because she be right . my hon . friend anticipate my point that assess age be inherently difficult and there be obvious safeguard risk if adult purport to be child be place in the care system . it be important that we take clear step to deter adult from claim to be child and to avoid lengthy legal challenge to age - assessment decision to prevent the removal of those who have be assess to be adult . however , the amendment would result in treat differently those who be to be remove to Rwanda from those remove to another country . we consider the provision in place entirely necessary to safeguard genuine child and to guard against adult who seek to game the system by purport to be child . on Lords amendment 8 , the House will be aware that the Home Office regularly publish statistic on migration level in the United Kingdom . it be not necessary to report the number of removal to Parliament in the manner propose . we do not consider an obligation to report to Parliament on operational matter to be appropriate . revert to the previous amendment on the fact that Parliament should be give , can the Minister confirm the report in the paper that the Home Office be now seek to pay people to go to Rwanda in order to fill the flight ? can he also confirm that if people take up that Home Office proposal , they will be subject to exactly the same very substantial payment to the Rwandan Government ? will they also be cover by the capacity question in the treaty ? respectfully , that be not directly relevant to amendment 8 . the answer to the question on voluntary removal be yes , this will happen in exactly the same way . there have be voluntary removal — include 19 , 000 last year — all the way back to the dawn of time or possibly before . there be nothing new . the novel part be that there will be voluntary removal to Rwanda ; that be absolutely right . specifically in relation to amendment 8 , it be not necessary to report the number of removal to Parliament and we do not consider obligation to report to Parliament to be appropriate . will the Minister give way ? I be go to continue . amendment 9 would act to impede provision already recently pass in the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . the amendment be unnecessary . it be important to be clear that the Government of Rwanda have system in place to safeguard relocate individual with a range of vulnerability , include those concern mental health and gender - base violence . furthermore , under article 13 of the treaty , Rwanda must have regard to information provide about relocate individual relate to any specific need that might arise as a result of their be a victim of modern slavery or human trafficking , and must take all necessary step to ensure that those need be accommodate . in relation to amendment 10 , the Government greatly value the contribution of those who have support we and our armed force overseas . that be why there be legal route for they to come to the United Kingdom . it remain the Government ' s priority to deter people from make dangerous and unnecessary journey to the United Kingdom . anyone who arrive here illegally should not be able to make the United Kingdom their home and eventually settle here . a person who choose to come here illegally , particularly if they have a safe and legal route available to they , should be liable for removal to a safe country . the Minister seem to try to brush over some of the cost involve . be he aware that Virgin Galactic can send six people into space for less than this Government want to spend send one person to Rwanda ? be it not time to rethink this absurd policy and its extortionate cost ? we have a debate on Thursday on the cost of the scheme and not a single labour Back Bencher be there . there be only the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who propose the debate , and the shadow Minister . of course , I do not treat the right hon . Lady as an ordinary Back Bencher , because she be the Chair of the Home Affairs Select Committee . it be her debate , and not a single other labour Back Bencher be there . that show the lack of priority that Labour Members give to this matter . in relation to amendment 10 , section 4 of the Illegal Migration Act , pass last year , enable the Secretary of State , by regulation , to specify category of person to whom the duty to remove be not to apply , whether temporarily or permanently . for those who be not in scope of the IMA , the Home Secretary have discretion to consider case on a case - by - case basis where circumstance demand it . I want to reassure Parliament that once the UK special force and afghan relocation and assistance policy review have conclude , the Government will consider and revisit how the IMA and removal under exist immigration legislation will apply to those who be determined to be eligible as a result of the review , ensure that those people receive the attention that they deserve . the Government recognise the commitment and the responsibility that come with combat veteran , whether our own or those who show courage by serve alongside we , and we will not let they down . the Bill and the legally bind treaty will make it clear that Rwanda be a safe country to which we can swiftly remove those who enter the United Kingdom illegally . it address the factual concern identify by the Supreme Court . it provide for clear , detailed and bind obligation in international law on both party . it will prevent systematic legal challenge about the safety of Rwanda from frustrating and delay removal . as my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) set out , it provide a strong deterrent and a clear message to illegal migrant and criminal gang that if people come to this country by unlawful mean , they will not be able to stay . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to speak in favour of all 10 of the Lords amendment that be before we today . they each serve to make this shambolic mess of a Bill marginally less absurd and , as I will come to in a second , they would serve only to put in statute what Ministers have promise from the Dispatch Box . not one of the amendment be design to prevent the departure of flight to Rwanda , as the Prime Minister have repeatedly and wrongly imply . we all want to end the Tory small boat chaos , and I be proud that the Labour party have consistently put forward a smart , pragmatic and sensible plan to do so , start by go after the criminal smuggler gang at source through a new cross - border police unit and a new security partnership with Europol . however , this Bill and the treaty that accompany it will not contribute in any way to achieve that aim . since 2020 , we have see 82 gang disrupt and more than 400 people arrest because of the action of this Government . I be keen to understand labour ' s idea about smash the gang . how much more would that cost , and what would it look like as a total percentage of number ? we will eradicate the activity of the criminal smuggler gang by have a proper security partnership with our european partner and ally . I remind the hon . Gentleman that his party have spend the last eight year trash and destroy our relationship with our european partner and ally . what we would have with a Labour Government be a basis of trust to get the result that we need to see for the british people — that be what sovereignty be all about . the entire Rwanda debacle have absorb a vast amount of time , energy and money that should instead have be focus on take back control of our border security from the criminal gang who trade in human misery . let we not forget that more than 100 , 000 asylum seeker have cross in small boat since 2020 , with 40 , 000 arrive on this Prime Minister ' s watch alone . the chaos must end , and this Government be clearly unable to restore order at the border , so it be time for they to get out of the way so that Labour can get the job do . before I get into the substance of the amendment , I would like to pay tribute to the noble member of the other place , who table they . in so do , they be fulfil their constitutional , democratic and patriotic duty by scrutinise and seek to amend the Bill , just as they would with any other piece of legislation that come before they . they have not be intimidate or sidetrack by the Prime Minister ' s mistaken assertion that the Bill should have some kind of special status or treatment , which would somehow allow Ministers to railroad it through Parliament and to drive a coach and horse through Britain ' s long - stand democratic convention . indeed , this profoundly dismissive attitude have manifest itself in the way in which the Government have point blank refuse to engage with the Lords amendment . they have reject every one of they , rather than seek to use they and see they as a basis for negotiation and compromise . on amendment 1 , be the hon . Gentleman aware that the Constitution Committee of the House of Lords , which have a significant number of member of the other place , have explicitly state that it be clear and unambiguous in the word use in the statute that international law give way to the supremacy and sovereignty of the United Kingdom Parliament ? the Committee say that in paragraph 58 of its report , which be publish only last year . I would remind the hon . Gentleman that the Supreme Court — the high court of our land — have rule unanimously and in no uncertain term that Rwanda be not a safe country to which to send asylum seeker . I know that he be very take with parliamentary sovereignty , and that be very important , but parliamentary sovereignty must be base on have due regard to the finding of our judiciary . it be to be exercise with caution and moderation , which be why it be so important that our colleague in the other place have play their role . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way one more time . I be extremely grateful , because this question go right to the heart of the matter . paragraph 144 of the Rwanda judgment itself be unequivocal : the President of the Supreme Court rule to dismiss one of the case — that of ASM , an iraqi — on very specific ground . he say that the consequence of the sovereignty of Parliament with respect to the legislation — the immigration act and the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 — be that the Court have to dismiss his claim . the supremacy of Parliament prevail in that judgment for the very reason I have just give , as set out in paragraph 144 under the principle of legality . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , but at the end of the day , we can not legislate to turn dog into cat . we can not legislate for the sky to be green and the grass to be blue . that be a basic tenet of the respect with which our institution should be treat , and put this kind of absurd legislation before we be frankly turn our institution into a laugh stock . I respectfully suggest that the hon . Gentleman keep that in mind . let we be clear : the only special or unique status that can be find in the Rwanda Bill and the treaty that accompany it be in its extortionate implementation cost , its unlawful nature and its glaring unworkability . indeed , as I turn to address the detail of the amendment , it be important to point out that since the Bill be last debate in this place , even more evidence of the astonishing unaffordability of the scheme have come to light . this fail scheme be already cost the british taxpayer almost £ 400 million , even though not a single asylum seeker have be send to Rwanda , but every new detail be more astounding than the last . we recently learn that the first 300 asylum seeker to be send to Rwanda would cost the british taxpayer an extra £ 200 million , earn an invoice of £ 570 million from the Rwandan Government for just 1 % of the 30 , 000 asylum seeker who cross in small boat last year . that be almost £ 2 million per asylum seeker . let that sink in for a moment — £ 2 million to send just one asylum seeker from the UK to Rwanda , and then another £ 182 , 000 per person on top of that . in comparison , process an asylum seeker in the UK cost just £ 21 , 000 . my hon . friend will be aware of the thousand of asylum seeker who be be disperse up and down the country , with very little support give to local service . while the Government be obsess over gimmick , they be not deal with the real problem in local community and support those community to host the people they be disperse up and down the country . this crisis continue , and the Government need to get a grip on it . my hon . friend be absolutely right that the smoke and mirror that have be use about clear the backlog — lot of administrative withdrawal and other way of just get people out of the backlog — be be combine with shorten the eviction period , which be lead to a staggering increase in homelessness among those who have be grant asylum . what be happen be frankly a stain on the conscience of our country . a total lack of co - ordination between the Home Office , the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , and our colleague in local authority be leave those local authority high and dry . although the hon . Gentleman and I might not share many view on this Bill , do he share my surprise that the Government have refuse to accept Lords amendment 8 , which would require they to report on this Bill ' s success ? as the Government do not want the number of removal to be report to Parliament , do he suspect that they know this Bill will not be as effective as they think ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his excellent question . sometimes the mask slip in the Government ' s response to amendment . perhaps they have decide , very disrespectfully , to refuse to engage on any of the Lords amendment because , exactly as he say , they worry that lift the lid on this box might show a total failure inside . the shadow Minister be make an excellent speech . let we not forget the history : the Tories ' Rwanda Bill be the third new law on channel crossing in just three year . the first law have be partly suspend , because it have so many problem and actually make thing bad , and the second Bill have still not be fully enact . this third Bill be another gimmick cost the public purse £ 2 million a person . do my hon . friend agree that , rather than constantly chase gimmick and try to dupe the british public , the Government finally need to get a grip on the situation ? I agree with every word my hon . Friend say . just imagine if the amount of time , money , resource , energy and political capital burn on this hare - brain Rwanda scheme have be use to do thing that might actually deliver , and just imagine if the Government have listen to labour ' s plan for deliver the change we need to see . we might have make some progress and see thing work . by the way , we support what the Government have do with Albania . why do we not see more of that , rather than this utterly ridiculous government by gimmick ? what a waste of time and money . the level of waste and this Government ' s cavalier attitude to taxpayer ' money be utterly staggering . where , oh where , be the plan for the remain 99 % of case that the Government say will be inadmissible ? ten of thousand of people who be now ineligible to be process and ineligible to claim asylum can not be send to Rwanda either . that backlog , the so - call perma - backlog , currently stand at 56 , 000 people , with most of they live in one of more than 300 taxpayer - fund hotel across the country , cost million of pound every single day . my hon . friend be make a very powerful argument against this Government ' s wasteful policy . be he aware that the £ 2 million cost of send each person to Rwanda would cover 67 new police officer or 72 new nurse in my constituency to fix the horrendous backlog create by this shambolic Government ? my hon . friend have do his math on the £ 2 million . I particularly enjoy his analogy with the Virgin Galactic spacecraft , which show that the Rwanda plan be a galactically wasteful policy . he be right that so much of this be about choice and priority , and the Government ' s choice and priority be simply wrong in waste valuable taxpayer ' money that would be much well focus elsewhere . that be why we support Lords amendment 8 , a Labour Front - Bench amendment in the name of my noble Friend Lord Coaker . the amendment would require the Government to report on the timetable for remove inadmissible asylum seeker under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . we need to see accountability on the inadmissibility provision that have create the perma - backlog of 56 , 000 small boat asylum seeker who be stick in limbo and be unable to be process . if 99 % of the people cross in small boat be not likely to be send to Rwanda , perhaps the Minister can tell we what will happen to they . will he admit that , despite all his bluff and bluster , they will simply be let into our asylum system after all ? no ? the premise of inadmissibility be always that it be a one - way street to limbo and shamble , as my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , the shadow Home Secretary , and I have continually warn Ministers in this Chamber over the past two year . of course , there be an alternative . I hope that Conservative Members have be listen because , for the past 18 month , my right hon . friend and I have be absolutely clear from this Dispatch Box how Labour will prevent the dangerous and life - threaten channel crossing , and how we will fix our broken asylum system . I have already mention how we would redirect the money set aside for the Rwandan Government into a cross - border police unit , an intelligence - share security partnership with Europol , in order to smash the criminal smuggling gang upstream . as part of our plan , we would also ensure that people who have no right to be here be remove to a safe third country . since 2010 , under the Tories , removal have collapse : the return of foreign national offender have fall by 27 % , and the return of fail asylum seeker have fall by 44 % . under Labour ' s plan , a new return and enforcement unit would include 1 , 000 additional official to expedite removal , with £ 35 million set aside to create new Nightingale court to fast - track appeal and pursue tough action on employer who employ migrant illegally . I thank the shadow Minister for give way . he say he want removal to a safe third country . which one ? I be very sorry , but would the hon . member mind repeat that ? it be always good to listen to an intervention , but I will repeat it for he . he say that one part of his plan be to remove people to a safe third country . simply question : if not Rwanda , which one ? I apologise ; I should have say " home country . " I would like to correct the record . it be " home country " . apology ; I mis - speak . labour ' s common - sense , pragmatic plan will smash the business model of the criminal gang , deter dangerous journey and tackle the backlog . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I will now run through the remain nine amendment from the other place . we support each of they for the reason I will now set out . how much would labour ' s plan cost ? as I have already say — I do not know if the hon . Member be listen — this be about repurpose the vast quantity of taxpayer ' money that be be squander on the hare - brain Rwanda plan . the re - channelling of that money will fund the clearance of the backlog , sort out return and smash the criminal gang . I would first like to focus on Lords amendment 10 , table by the noble Lord Browne , which seek to exempt individual who have work in support of the UK Government or armed force from removal to Rwanda under the provision of the Bill . the amendment be drive by a moral imperative : we owe a debt of gratitude to those who have support our defence , diplomacy and development abroad , not least in Afghanistan . it beggar belief that the Government would even consider send this cohort of hero , who be flee the Taliban , to Rwanda . Britain ' s commitment towards these loyal - to - Britain Afghans be , of course , feel most strongly by our own armed force , but the Government have continually shirk their responsibility towards Afghans , include by leave thousand who have a right to be in the UK strand in Pakistan for more than a year . it be little wonder that they have resort to make desperate journey across the channel . operation Warm Welcome have become " Operation Cold Shoulder . " the hon . Gentleman say that he want more afghan people to come from Pakistan to the UK . how many more immigrant do he want to come to the UK from Afghanistan ? the amendment be about stop they be send to Rwanda , but let we be absolutely clear : there be many , many Afghans , identify by the Government under the afghan relocation and assistance policy and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme , who be languish in Pakistan . we remember the Prime Minister ' s memo to whitehall say , " by the way everybody , let ' s slow peddle on these Afghans who be in Pakistan and have be identify for resettlement under the acr and ARAP . " if the hon . Member want to know the number , I recommend that he go to his own government and ask how many have be identify under ARAP and acr . in my constituency I have meet one family in a similar situation . the constituent ' s husband have be kill in Afghanistan , but the family be still in limbo because of the delay in decision making . be my hon . friend aware that Pakistan be now force afghan asylum seeker back to Afghanistan ? there be ten of thousand of people in that situation , some of whom work to support our force during the war in Afghanistan . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the scope of Lords amendment 10 be specifically for those who serve shoulder to shoulder with our armed force and in our diplomatic and development effort in Afghanistan . these be people to whom the United Kingdom owe a debt of honour and a debt of gratitude . I be not sure whether honour be a word that we can apply very easily to those on the Conservative Benches , but that be what this be about . lord amendment 9 , in the name of the noble Baroness Butler - Sloss , be also base on a moral imperative , as it would prevent the removal of potential victim of modern slavery to Rwanda until they receive a decision from the Government on whether there be credible evidence that the person be a modern slavery victim . it really should go without say that modern slavery victim should not be send to Rwanda but , sadly , with this Government , basic moral decency be a scarce commodity . let I speak to Lords amendment 9 and 10 . those of we who have deal with trafficked victim and those who serve we in Afghanistan feel that there be some loss of moral compass somewhere . those who serve we in Afghanistan , in a whole range of different function , have only just survive get out of the country . they have be chase by the Taliban and their family have be harass . some of they get to Pakistan and be then threaten with force back over the border again . they have get to we traumatise , and we be go to traumatise they again by send they to Rwanda . that can not be right . I can not believe that any hon . member who have deal with such case could not support these amendment , because it be human suffering in the extreme , and for those who have serve we , it be human suffering bring about by their loyalty to we . I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . he make the case with passion and conviction . I know that he have a number of asylum seeker and refugee in his constituency and he do a huge amount of work on their behalf . he be absolutely right : there be some issue that should really transcend the day - to - day political consideration that we have in this place , because they be issue that be base on moral imperative . it be deeply disappointing that , in Lords amendment 9 and 10 , the Government have refuse even to use they as the basis for negotiation or some kind of compromise . we find that deeply disappointing . with regard to the early question of how many , do the hon . Member not agree that the simple answer be , " all those who serve and who risk their life to help we in a war that require the support of the local population " ? we have record of the help and support they give . surely we can not turn our back on those people if they be in danger . I thank the right hon . gentleman for what he have say . what a contrast there be between his intervention and that of the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Alexander Stafford ) from the Conservative Benches . I genuinely believe that when the hon . member for Rother Valley reflect , he will regret make his intervention and perhaps reflect on what the right hon . Gentleman have just say . we on the Opposition Benches be profoundly concerned about unaccompanied child be inadvertently send to Rwanda . for this reason , we support Lords amendment 7 , in the name of the noble Baroness Lister , which reverse change to age assessment procedure establish by the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation specifically to removal to Rwanda . it restore the ability of domestic court and tribunal to fully consider suspensive judicial review claim regard removal decision take on the basis of age assessment of unaccompanied child . lord amendment 1 to 6 all relate to the rule of law . we support all of those amendment , and they be all principle with which Government Ministers have say they agree . indeed , the simple question that should be ask in relation to each one of these amendment be this : if minister believe that Rwanda be a safe country , then why be the Government refuse to support these amendment ? they say that the Bill abide by international law , so why not make that clear in the Bill ? they say that Rwanda be a safe country and be meet its obligation , so let we see the evidence and agree a " trust but verify " mechanism . in that spirit , Lords amendment 1 be a Labour Front - Bench amendment that place a responsibility on the Government to comply in full with their current obligation under domestic and international law . do the hon . Gentleman not accept that amendment 1 be entirely otiose ? in term of compliance with domestic law , the Bill when enact will be an element of domestic law . in term of compliance with international law , be it not the case that the Bill be predicate on international law — that be to say , the Rwanda treaty ? if that be the case , why will Ministers not accept the amendment ? those in the other place , who have a great deal more constitutional expertise than I have , be simply seek reassurance that our democratic convention and obligation in relation to alignment with the rule of law will be respect . if that be the case , as the right hon . Gentleman suggest , surely the amendment should be perfectly acceptable to the Government . perhaps I can help to shed light on this . the Minister have just show that the Government be not abide by their international obligation . the Good Friday agreement explicitly commit we to work together — those word be in it — with the Irish Government when it come to the right of individual in Northern Ireland . the Bill will deny right to individual in Northern Ireland , yet the Minister admit that the Government have not even consult the Irish Government . do my hon . friend agree that our word be our bond as a country , and if we show that we can not be trust to stand up for international law , it be right that this place demand that the Government put it in the Bill ? I agree with my hon . friend , who make a very clear case . a lot of rhetoric have accompany the Bill around the european convention on human right and the United Kingdom ' s obligation under international law . the implication of that for the Good Friday agreement be truly chilling . the way in which Government Members be prepared to sabre - rattle , and to use rhetoric in a way that undermine our reliability as a partner that can be trust to respect our international legal obligation , be frankly shameful and deeply concern , not least in the case of the Good Friday agreement . lord amendment 2 and 3 , in the name of the noble Lord Hope , state that Rwanda may be consider a safe country only if and when the measure set out " in the Rwanda treaty have be fully implement " and the monitoring committee have establish that that be the case . the Government claim that the measure in the treaty address concern in the Supreme Court ' s recent ruling , so there be absolutely no reason why Ministers should refuse to accept Lord Hope ' s amendment . lord amendment 4 and 5 , in the name of the noble Lord Anderson , state that Rwanda can be consider a safe country unless there be " credible evidence to the contrary " , as determine by a court or tribunal . follow the Supreme Court ' s ruling , the Government themselves accept that the situation in Rwanda be not static but evolve , as it be in every country on the face of the Earth . if the Government accept that Rwanda could one day become safe for asylum seeker who be send there from the UK , they must by definition accept that it could one day deteriorate . Lord Anderson ' s amendment simply provide a basis for assess the situation on the ground in Rwanda and act accordingly . a joint statement sign by over 260 civil society organisation have brand the Bill " a constitutionally extraordinary and deeply harmful piece of legislation . it threaten the universality of human right and be likely in breach of international law , strike a serious blow to the UK ' s commitment to the rule of law . " do my hon . friend agree that the Bill represent an unethical gimmick that will potentially put very vulnerable people at risk and harm the UK ' s reputation on the world stage ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . if the amount of time and energy that have be waste on this madcap Bill , which be also a constitutional outrage , unaffordable , unlawful and unworkable , have be put into address some of the challenge that we face in a pragmatic way , just think where we could have get to by today . finally , Lords amendment 6 , in the name of the noble Baroness Chakrabarti , allow Government Ministers , official and court to consider whether Rwanda be safe on a case - by - case basis . give that the Government have accept that some appeal will be allow , we see no reason for they to reject that amendment . after 14 year of incompetent and negligent governance , our asylum system be in a mess . the Conservatives have preside over a backlog of 130 , 000 asylum seeker , despite Ministers ' attempt to pull the wool over the public ' s eye through administrative withdrawal and various other ruse . there be still 46 , 000 asylum seeker in taxpayer - fund hotel , contribute to an asylum system that now cost 10 time what it do under Labour , at an eyewatering £ 5 . 4 billion . only last week , we discover that there be major problem with a broken immigration it system , which have mix up detail of applicant , affect a staggering 76 , 000 people . however , this con of a Bill be not the way to fix the problem that the Conservative Government have create . the high Court in our land have rule unanimously that Rwanda be not a safe country , and no amount of ludicrous legislation such as this Bill can change that fact . the Government may well wish to say that the sky be green and the grass be blue , but introduce an Act of Parliament will never make it so . even Conservative Members recognise that the Bill be on a hiding to nothing . indeed , a former Home Secretary have state that it be highly unlikely to work , and the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , have describe the Government ' s aim as be to get a few " symbolic half - fill flight take off this spring " rather than a plan that be a genuine attempt to tackle the dangerous channel crossing . it be probably no surprise , then , that minister be finally turn to plan b : pay people a report £ 3 , 000 per head to go to Rwanda instead . can that really be true , and if so , will the Minister take the opportunity to enlighten the House on some of the detail ? would that £ 3 , 000 per head come on top of the £ 570 million cost that we already know about ? will there be another treaty between the UK and Rwanda to implement it , and if so will he publish it ? have the National Audit Office do an assessment of those additional cost ? will the House be able to vote on the new plan that have be brief ? I await the Minister ' s response with interest . this Bill be a con . the treaty be a con . the whole Rwanda plan be a con . it be quite simply a headline - chasing gimmick , as unworkable as it be unaffordable . the country know it , this House know it , the Home Secretary know it and the Minister know it : at £ 2 million per head , the Rwanda scheme be the bad value - for - money policy in history . however , the amendment that I have speak to today will not stop flight take off . we expect those flight to happen this spring , as the Prime Minister have repeatedly promise the country . the amendment would simply insert into the Bill what minister have promise , so I encourage member on both side of the House to join I in the Division Lobby later to support they . rise — order . the Government and Opposition Front Benchers have , perhaps understandably , take a certain amount of leeway in a broad - brush approach to the debate . before we proceed , I remind back Benchers that we be now debate Lords amendment ; this be not a second reading debate . I call Sir Jeremy Wright . thank you very much indeed , Mr Deputy Speaker . may I begin with an apology to you and other for the fact that I will not be in the Chamber for some part of the debate because of other parliamentary business that I have to attend ? I start my remark by recall that the fundamental purpose of the Bill be to locate with Parliament — rather than with decision maker in individual case or with court review those case — the decision on whether Rwanda be a safe country to send people to . a number of the amendment before we would undermine that fundamental purpose by transfer decision on that question away from Parliament and back to the caseworker and court , so they be , I be afraid , wreck amendment . they be incredibly elegant wreck amendment , and they come from an honourable and fundamental opposition to the purpose of the Bill — an opposition that I entirely understand . I confess that I do not find voting for this legislation a comfortable choice . it come very close to the line on rule - of - law acceptability , but in my view stay just the right side of it . crucially , it assert parliamentary sovereignty on an issue of huge political significance , where that issue be central to the delivery of a key Government policy . that significant and central issue be whether the Government of the day be entitle to pursue a policy on illegal immigration that contain an element of effective deterrence , and I think the Government must be able to do that . for a deterrent to be effective , it must be clear . to economic migrant seek to reach the UK under cover of our asylum system , the deterrent be that they might end up in a different country — in this case , Rwanda . for that deterrent to be meaningful , the prospect of transfer to Rwanda must be a real one that it be not easy to evade , which mean that the headline judgment on Rwanda ' s safety must be clear to all , subject of course , as it should be , only to persuasive individual circumstance . I think that approach be worthy of support for two reason . first , illegal migration be a huge problem , and the Government must be able to pursue innovative solution to it , especially in the absence of credible alternative . my right hon . and learn Friend be make an excellent point about how we must be innovative . be that not the reason why other country be look at what the UK be do ? the like of Austria , Germany and Italy have all talk about use third nation because there need to be a solution to the problem , as he be so eloquently set out . I be conscious , Mr Deputy Speaker , not to transgress into second read territory , but I think my hon . friend be right about that . as our right hon . and learn Friend the Minister have point out , other international agency also make use of Rwanda for these purpose . secondly , Parliament be as able as any other body to make judgment about the safety of Rwanda . I be grateful for the information with which we have be provide , include the country information note that be refer to early in the debate , which in my view support the conclusion that Rwanda be safe for the purpose of the Bill . but Parliament ' s decision making on the safety of Rwanda must have integrity not just for now , but for the future . I be , I have to say , trouble by what I might describe as the absolutist , if not the eternalist nature of the wording of the Bill , which say that Rwanda be safe and must be take as such for a variety of purpose , and Parliament ' s judgment on that will stand , as far as I can see , until new legislation be pass . that be why the noble Lord Hope ' s amendment — Lords amendment 2 and 3 — be interesting , although I can not support they as they essentially transfer authority to the treaty ' s monitor committee to determine whether Rwanda remain a safe country , base on compliance or otherwise with the treaty . that can not be right , as the Bill be intend specifically to give Parliament that authority , and Parliament should , in theory at least , retain the option to consider breach of the treaty and nevertheless conclude that Rwanda remain a safe country for the purpose of the Bill . my right hon . and learn Friend make a very powerful point , with which I have much sympathy . between now and future stage of the Bill , could the Government not think about how they can reconcile that with the legitimate concern express in Lord Hope ' s amendment , which I think be fair and honest ? fact change , and if Parliament set itself up as an arbiter and decider on fact , it must have a means of change its decision if the fact change , just as anything else would . I say to the Minister that Keynes come to mind . can we find a way forward ? my hon . and learn Friend anticipate my conclusion , and I agree with he entirely . in fact , he agree with I entirely , in advance . in light of what my right hon . and learn Friend say , how do he see Parliament ' s role in assess any future breach of the treaty ? essentially , Lords amendment 2 and 3 — flawed as they be — raise the valid issue of what happen if Rwanda at any point fall below the standard expect of it to justify its safe country status . the Bill would establish in legislation the largely unchallengeable conclusion that Rwanda be a safe country for the purpose of the Bill because Parliament say so , without any mechanism for Parliament to say differently if the fact change — save , presumably , for fresh primary legislation . I see two contradiction , almost , in what the right hon . and learn Gentleman be say . he talk about the sovereignty of Parliament and whether Rwanda be designate as safe can be change , but our Supreme Court , the high court in the land , say after read all the evidence that Rwanda be not safe . yes , Parliament be sovereign but it have become almost a dictatorship because this be a bit like say " Person A be find guilty in a criminal court but because we in Parliament do not like that , that person must be return to court and be sentence . " that use parliamentary sovereignty in a most nonsensical way . I be afraid I do not accept what the hon . Lady say . first , as the Minister make clear , the Government have not ignore the conclusion of the Supreme Court , which we must remind ourselves be make in 2022 : they have respond to those concern and new information be now available for Parliament to consider . my point be that this be , on the Government ' s invitation , for Parliament to decide . it be for Parliament to determine whether we consider that Rwanda be , on the evidence available to we , a safe country . we may all reach different conclusion about that but the premise of this legislation be that , take into account the concern the Supreme Court have express , it be none the less for Parliament to determine whether Rwanda be a safe country for the purpose of the legislation . but it be simply not sensible for Parliament not to be able to say differently , save through primary legislation , if the fact be to change . we all hope , perhaps expect , that Rwanda will remain a safe place for migrant to go , but if we could guarantee that indefinitely we would not need the treaty the Government work so hard to secure or the monitoring committee design to scrutinise compliance with it . although the Government be entitle to reject the amendment , they should give some thought to the situation of the Bill , because it break new ground by give Parliament specific authority over a judgment that will bind many but that Parliament can not easily revise even if it come to believe that revision be necessary . the treaty and the monitoring of its term provide a mechanism for Parliament to be alert to significant change in compliance , and I ask my right hon . and learn Friend the Minister and his colleague in the other place to consider how Parliament might be give further scope to engage with that judgment if the need arise . I do appreciate that the Government retain mean by which they can revise their judgment of the safety of Rwanda , but the Bill clearly and deliberately transfer the judgment on safety to Parliament . if it be a judgment in Parliament ' s name , it must be right for Parliament to retain the capacity to reconsider and if necessary revise it . it remain the position of the Scottish National party that this be an irredeemably awful Bill . we do not support the Rwanda plan ; we think it be both an offence to humanity and an egregious waste of public money , particularly at a time when many of our constituent be struggle to feed themselves . I thank the Lords for their work on the Bill and for at least try to make it in some way well , and we would support all the Lords amendment and what they attempt to do with the Bill . Lord Coaker ' s Lords amendment 1 would add a measure to comply with domestic and international law . that should be basic ; any legislation in this place should abide by domestic and international law . it seem ludicrous that we have a Bill before we that do not abide by international and domestic law . it be a bit of a cheek for the Minister to talk about Rwanda abide by treaty and its loyalty while at the same time the Tories go about the business of undermine the UK ' s own international commitment in international agreement that we help to draft . the european convention on human right , the refugee convention , the international covenant on civil and political right and the Council of Europe convention on action against trafficking in human being , as well as customary international law and domestic law , be all thing we have create here that the Government have set about undermine . it be absolutely ludicrous . it bring into question the Government ' s commitment to international agreement , and particularly the european convention on human right , which underpin so much . we have hear from member about the significance of some of the legislation to the Good Friday agreement and Scotland ' s devolution settlement . the Government see fit to undermine all that through their action . I be sure that my hon . friend will have read the report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights on the Bill . we note that other nation may be influence by how the UK treat its international treaty obligation . in particular , we notice that the Prime Minister of Pakistan have refer to the UK ' s Rwanda policy in defence of his country ' s decision to expel from Pakistan hundred of Afghans who have flee from the Taliban regime . do my hon . friend agree that it be most regrettable that he can refer to the UK ' s cavalier attitude towards international law in support of his own cavalier attitude ? I absolutely agree . other country around the world have look to the UK as an upholder of right — as a beacon of democracy and human right — but follow this tawdry Bill , we can see other country look at the UK ' s dissent from international norm that we set up . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make a little progress , because I be mindful of what Mr Deputy Speaker say about time . I want to touch on the misinformation that the Minister put forward about Rwanda and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees . the transit agreement be not the same at all as people be permanently relocate to Rwanda . the UNHCR have mention that Norway , Sweden , Canada , France , Belgium , the Netherlands , Finland and the USA have take people from the transit camp . People have come from 10 country , include Sudan and Cameroon , to Libya and to the transit camp in Rwanda , and then be be move on elsewhere . they be not stay in Rwanda permanently . indeed , report from the transit camp have highlight that people have no desire to stay in Rwanda in transit camp , because of the condition in which they be live , so the Government be not at all talk about the same thing there . they should be absolutely clear on that and not mislead the House with point that suit their argument . lord amendment 2 in the name of Lord Hope of Craighead would ensure that Rwanda could be designate as safe only if the treaty be adhere to . it state that Rwanda " will be a safe country when , and so long as , the arrangement provide for in the Rwanda Treaty have be fully implement and be be adhere to in practice . " among the Supreme Court ' s concern about the matter be the fact that Rwanda be not yet in a place where it can adhere to all those arrangement in practice . perhaps it will in future , but it be not safe now . to declare it completely safe in all circumstance right now be a false argument . lord amendment 3 would create an obligation on the Government to report to Parliament on the term of the treaty and how those be be monitor . that be perfectly reasonable . what be the Government afraid of ? after all , if they think Rwanda be safe and fine , why do they not want scrutiny of the situation ? it need monitoring . there be continue report of what the Rwandan - back M23 rebel be do on Rwanda ' s border . this legislation be a poor way of gauge safety . it be not flexible or reasonable , and can not take account of change circumstance . circumstance can change rapidly and unexpectedly , but we be legislate to say that Rwanda be safe in all circumstance in perpetuity . that be clearly ludicrous and give a hostage to fortune ; the Government should be aware of that . the hon . Lady make the point that thing change with time . do she accept that many measure have be put in place by the UK Government and the Rwandan Government since the judgment of the UK Supreme Court last year ? it be difficult to tell , because scrutiny mechanism be not in place that would allow Committees of this House to ascertain whether that be entirely the case . the Committee that my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) be on have be to visit Rwanda , and she have information about that visit that she hope to share with the House . I understand that the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) be on that trip , too , but that be not good enough . there need to be far , continue scrutiny , and it be important that Parliament have the opportunity for that . I know from the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , that even information on the deal have be difficult to come by . last week , in the Chamber , we discuss the obfuscation and secrecy surround the cost of the plan . if this be how the Government be begin this journey , we can have no confidence — on this side of the House , certainly — that they can be trust , which be why Lords amendment 3 be so important . the House need a scrutiny mechanism . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be conscious of what you say about time , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I should like to make some progress . in Lords amendment 4 , Lord Anderson of Ipswich propose to add to the word " every decision - maker must conclusively treat the Republic of Rwanda as a safe country " the word " unless present with credible evidence to the contrary " . I agree that evidence be important . if judge and other decision maker be not allow to make decision on the basis of evidence , rather than rely on a bit of legislation draw up in a short period , the Government have zero credibility . they be ask people to blindfold themselves to any other circumstance , and not to heed any evidence or proof . there must be an opportunity for every decision maker to treat the evidence with the due diligence that we would all expect . lord amendment 5 would remove the part of the Bill that state that Rwanda should automatically be consider a safe country ; it provide a rebuttal mechanism for the assertion of safety in Rwanda . Liberty say that the amendment correct " a deficiency in the Bill whereby Parliament be ask to state that Rwanda be and will continue to be safe , and there be no mechanism by which this can be revisit . this be a moderate safeguard " . if the Government think about this fully , they would surely conclude that the amendment would enhance the Bill ; but they be , of course , reject all amendment , regardless of their source . lord amendment 6 effectively restore the power of the court to make a factual judgment on the safety of Rwanda in an individual case , or for a group of people who share characteristic , such as lgbtq people . I think it tell that the Minister say that it completely undermine the purpose of the Bill . " well , good , " be all I can say in response . we should be try to undermine the purpose of the Bill if its aim be , for example , to ship lgbtq people off to a country that may not welcome they in all circumstance , without allow they to check the position first . I think it perfectly reasonable to provide the ability to make judgment of this kind . I recall that at the back of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be a list of country with exemption for particular group of people — in some case specify man or woman — but the Bill do not even do that . I think it entirely reasonable for there to be some way of question this power in the Bill . lord amendment 7 , table by Baroness Lister , concern issue relate to the age of unaccompanied child , which I consider to be of the utmost importance . the treaty make provision for what happen if a child somehow mysteriously end up in Rwanda by mistake , but that only happen if the Home Office have make an error of some kind in send the child there in the first place . we know from medical professional that some of the age assessment be effectively pseudo - science . we know that when child have come here , have cross sea , continent and war zone in very difficult circumstance , it may be more difficult to assess their age , because they have have a much tough paper round than my son , for example . we also know that not all child look exactly the same or present themselves in exactly the same way , although they may be the same age . we can all remember that when we be at school , there be always some great big guy with a beard and a hairy chest when the other be knee - high to a buttercup . not at my convent school . that be another question , I suppose . the point be that everyone be different . we can not reliably look at someone and tell their age . the Bill should contain more protection to ensure that child who have already go through incredibly traumatic experience be not send to Rwanda . will the hon . Lady give way ? as I have say , I be conscious of what we have be tell about time . I be sure that if the hon . Lady want to make a speech on this subject later , we will all listen to it . lord amendment 8 add a mechanism for a report to Parliament . under the heading " removal to Rwanda under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 " , it state : " within 60 day of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a statement " . again , that be an important scrutiny mechanism . we in this Parliament should know who be be send to Rwanda and the timetable for those removal , as this Lords amendment suggest . most importantly , propose new paragraph ( c ) in amendment 8 deal with the arrangement in place for people not send to Rwanda . we know that only the tiny percentage of people who end up here will be send to Rwanda ; it be entirely unrealistic to suggest that more than a few hundred people will ever get send there , so we need to know what happen to the people who end up in immigration limbo — those who be inadmissible . where be they ? who look after they ? where do they live ? how do they survive ? what do they eat ? we need to know what happen to the people this Government be commit to immigration limbo ; it be important , and the Government should update Parliament on it . the Minister talk about publish immigration statistic , but I think we need more than that ; this House need to hold the Government accountable for the people they send to Rwanda , and the people they do not send there . the point about the timetable of removal be also important , because I be aware of people in Dungavel who be keen to leave the UK , yet the UK Government be take an age to arrange the mechanism for they to do so . even when people want and have reason to go somewhere else , the Government be not facilitate that . worryingly , the Minister say it be not necessary to report on that to Parliament . I disagree ; it be entirely important and necessary to report on that to Parliament , so that we can hold the Government accountable . again , if they think that this will go so well , surely they will want to tell we how many people they have send away , rather than about those they have not . Lords amendment 9 be about victim of modern slavery and human trafficking be remove without their consent . that be a deep concern for many organisation who support people who have be traffic and have be through absolute hell . it be important that those people be not remove to Rwanda without their consent . redress have provide a briefing about torture in Rwanda , and it highlight that there have be case of it . Human Rights Watch ' s report on Rwanda , publish in 2023 , 2022 and 2021 , all include example of torture . there be list in the Redress briefing that I urge all member to have a look at , although I will not detain the House with it now . the briefing highlight that in the Supreme Court case , it be point out that " evidence of human right violation ' raise serious question as to its compliance with [ Rwanda ' s ] international obligation ' , since this have occur despite the country have ratify many international human right agreement " . furthermore , the British Medical Association ' s briefing raise concern about the ability of Rwanda to support those who have be victim of torture . Rwanda be on the list of country experience a healthcare worker crisis ; it be on the list of country that the UK be not suppose to recruit from . again , that call into question whether people can be support when they go to Rwanda . the BMA briefing state : " medical review of 36 people under threat of removal to Rwanda reveal that 26 display medical indicator of have be torture , with 15 have symptom or a diagnosis of ptsd and 11 have experience suicidal thought while in detention . " we be talk about an incredibly vulnerable group , and they deserve specific support . it be important that we recognise that Lords amendment 9 should stay in the Bill I come to Lords amendment 10 , in which Lord Browne of Ladyton propose a change to protect supporter of the UK armed force and their family from removal to Rwanda . that be a significant amendment , particularly in the context of Afghanistan . I have talk many time in this House about Afghans , such as the Triples , who support the UK ' s endeavour in Afghanistan and have be despicably leave behind . I continue to get regular email from a woman who be train by UK force and work alongside they in Afghanistan . she be increasingly frustrated and terrify , but most of all she be despondent that the UK have let she down and have not keep the promise that she feel she have be make . on the hon . Lady ' s point about the UK let down people who be work for we and with we , that be all because of this gimmicky legislation , which be design to appeal to a certain percentage of voter , from a Government who be bankrupt of any real idea for tackle the real issue of concern in our country . this legislation be just a gimmick . the hon . Lady be correct : it be a gimmick . it have no basis in fact and there a lot of doubt about whether it will even work , but it appeal to a certain section that the Government think need to be appeal to . it be not so much a dog whistle as a foghorn , but it be definitely there . to continue with the point about Afghans , the Migration Observatory at Oxford University have point out that more Afghans have come by small boat than in any of the UK ' s scheme . in fact , between 1 January and 30 June last year , nine time as many Afghans arrive by small boat as under the route that the Government specifically set up . the ARAP and acr be fail to deal with this issue ; they be suppose to be safe and legal route that prevent and dissuade people from get in small boat , but they do not work . they take too long , they be inefficient , and they do not provide the security that people require to come here , so people take thing into their own hand . who can blame they in the circumstance ? I have see far too many case in my constituency . when Afghanistan fall , we have about 80 people in touch who have relative in Afghanistan , but I know of only a handful who manage to get their family over here . that be despicable . I worry about those people all the time . I do not know where they be , and I do not know whether even their family know where they be . it be tell that so many people will come by small boat because they can not rely on UK Government scheme to get they here safely . the Bill be full of contradiction : it be a deterrent , but Rwanda be also safe ; it undermine our own obligation internationally and our domestic court while tell Rwanda that it must keep to its obligation ; it be not tough enough for the far - right of the Tory party but too harsh for the more reasonable wing . it be a circus . it be a deflection from a break Home Office that can not even get the basic right — that be beset by delay , under investigation by the Information Commissioner ' s Office and waste money hand over fist . the Rwanda Bill be not Scotland ' s value . in Scotland , we see the humanity in people . an alternative be set out clearly in the Scottish Government ' s paper on the issue . we can not trust the fail Westminster party to dismantle the hostile environment that they create . Scotland must have these power urgently . we must have independence to play our part in the world . I sign the Government ' s motion to reject Lords amendment 1 and be happy to support they in it . the fact be that the Lords amendment would add to clause 1 ( 1 ) the word : " full compliance with domestic and international law . " the problem be that that would make the clause one of the most serious and dangerous clause I have see in recent statutory history . it would contradict one of the most fundamental principle of our constitutional law . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Minister for counter Illegal Migration say , we have a dualist system — I have refer to it several time in the past — and it be fundamental . that be unlike Germany , as article 26 of its constitution state that international law be the most fundamental part of its constitutional arrangement ; article 65 and 66 of the dutch constitution contain a similar provision . we have a dualist system , and the sovereignty of our Parliament be imperative . over many generation — in fact , go back century — all the court case , whether in the House of Lords or in the Supreme Court , make it absolutely clear that where word use in statute be clear and unambiguous , and where Parliament ' s explicit intention be clear , parliamentary sovereignty mean that the supremacy of Parliament can override international law and should do so . the " should do so " be equally important . indeed , I would go far and say that in our court , sovereignty — with those clear and unambiguous word — trump international law . as I mention in an intervention on the Labour spokesman , the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , the House of Lords Constitution Committee , include the like of the noble Lord Falconer , Lord Robertson and various other , clearly state in paragraph 58 of its report last year on the rule of law : " parliamentary sovereignty mean that Parliament can legislate contrary to the UK ' s obligation under international law . " that fundamentally disagree with what be contain in Lords amendment 1 , so what — if I may say — the heck be go on ? the Lords have a very important decision to take , and paragraph 54 to 60 of that report contain the very carefully detailed reasoning that lead the Committee to the conclusion I have just read out . I have mention in a previous debate the judgment of Lord Hoffmann in a case call r v . lyon . I want to quote from it , because he clearly say that international law be trump by the supremacy of the sovereignty of Parliament . Parliament have to be the key determinant . what he say be so important — I would not bother make my point in this way if it be not for this amendment . I be not sure whether the Leader of the opposition really intend to achieve the objective set out in clause 1 ; it worry I very much indeed if he be complicit in this operation . this be a Labour amendment and have a majority of 102 in the House of Lords , so we be go to have to take it seriously , which mean we also have to deal with it seriously . Lord Hoffmann say , " english court will not ( unless the statute expressly so provide ) be bind to give effect to interpretation of the treaty by an international court , even though the United Kingdom be bind by international law to do so . " he go on to say , " the sovereign legislator in the United Kingdom be Parliament . if Parliament have plainly lay down the law , it be the duty of the court to apply it , whether that would involve the Crown in breach of an international treaty or not . " nothing could be more explicit . nothing could be clear . will the hon . member give way ? no . amendment 1 , put forward by the House of Lords , completely contradict that principle , because in its wording it make both domestic law and international law combine a matter of full compliance . I would go so far as to say that it be impossible in many circumstance to actually arrive at a point where there could be full compliance with domestic and international law accord to our constitutional principle . I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for again make a powerful argument about the sovereignty of Parliament , and he will understand why the sovereignty of Parliament be so fundamental . in democratic polity , Parliament speak for the people and be give legitimacy by the people , and lawmaker here be answerable to the people . international obligation and treaty matter , but they do not matter more than the people ' s will . I be bind to say , with no disrespect to the noble Lords , who pass this amendment with a majority of 102 , that they do not have that legitimacy because constitutionally they be unelecte ; that be a fundamental point that need to be take into account . they have a function to perform , but it be our intention and the Government ' s clear , state objective , to overturn the amendment . the issue go much far and deep , in my opinion , than just the question of the Rwanda Bill , but it be in the Bill . in my 40 year in this place , or in my constitutional legal practice beforehand , I have never see any statute that purport to include word that be so all - embrace as the word in the amendment . I do not know who devise the amendment but , with a majority of 102 , we have well look to our merit and make quite sure that we turn it down . the people who be behind amendment 1 be internationalist . that worry I , too . there be a cohort of internationalist in various Government Departments : the Home Office and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office in particular . be a mere Back Bencher , I be more than happy to castigate those who want to internationalise the sovereignty of our country . I have a bit of trouble — a local difficulty , as one might say — over our leave the European Union . these internationalist want we to be part and parcel of this great European Union , and I have never be happy in my life than on 23 June 2016 , when we decide to reject the proposal , as I have be argue for — shall we say , for a year or two ? the European Union itself be in a terrible bind over the global problem of illegal migration . I have not yet discover what Germany will do about its own constitution in this respect . it be not just the European Union but the United States of America — day in , day out we see the problem they face on the Texas border . it be beyond imagination . what that country be try to do about the number of people flow in raise all the same kind of question on the international refugee convention . this issue affect not just the United Kingdom , but we be take a stand . I say to my right hon . friend the Prime Minister that by reject the amendment we will enhance our international reputation — by use our unwritten constitution to make it clear that what the people want and what the principle of common sense demand be that we just can not allow illegal migration to overtake our entire national interest . I have be to Madrid for a summit of the Conference of Parliamentary Committees for Union Affairs of the Parliaments of the European Union , as the british representative and Chairman of the European Scrutiny Committee , and I hope to go back again in a few week ' time . there be sheer consternation at the last conference , which be comprise of the chairman of the european affair or scrutiny committee of the 27 member state ; they be appal by the proposal by a majority vote to accept quota and compulsory fine if they be to have any sensible arrangement in the European Union , which they can not have because it be inconsistent with their constitutional arrangement . it be inconsistent with the charter of fundamental right . that be why we need to focus on the european convention on human right in this particular context . I be not go to make a speech about that , because that would be outside the term of this debate . I write to the Prime Minister many month ago and send he a paper of seven page of breach of international law by country from all over the world , include in the European Union — France , Denmark , there be so many of they . it be not seven page of argument ; it be seven page , each line of which contain breach of international law by the legion , so what be we worry about ? get on with it ! we must make sure that we reject this amendment and do not allow the Lords , if they come back again on ping - pong , to think that they be go to get away with it . we want to be very firm about this . we have a dualist system . we have sovereignty of Parliament , and we have an elect Parliament . we have our voter ' wish to take into account and we should stick by they and do nothing else . it be almost two year since the Rwanda scheme be first announce by the then Home Secretary in April 2022 . this be now the third piece of legislation connect with that scheme . when this Bill have its second reading in the Commons at the end of last year , I note that the challenge of stop dangerous boat crossing be real and , despite what the Minister say , I think it be one that every member of this House wish to address . the Home Affairs Committee ' s report on channel crossing be clear : " there be no magical single solution to deal with irregular migration . " instead , our report recommend : " detailed , evidence - drive , fully cost and fully test policy initiative … to achieve … incremental change " . it also recommend : " close co - operation with international partner " . those remark be still relevant , and it be interesting to note the new tone of the Home Secretary in say that this policy on Rwanda be now only a part of the solution to small boat crossing . as we know , however , it be very expensive and use up a huge amount of time in this place and a great deal of political capital . in the absence of any pre - exist evidence that the UK - Rwanda partnership will deliver on its primary objective to deter small boat crossing , the need for careful , consider and responsible planning and lawmaking be even more acute , and that be what the amendment under consideration today seek to address . I remind the House that the Lords as a revise Chamber have an important job to do in scrutinise legislation and improve it where necessary , and I think it be helpful for this House to see what improvement the other place be suggest to legislation from this place . amendment 1 add a requirement to maintain " full compliance with domestic and international law . " I note that the Minister today and the Minister in the other place have argue that the Bill be already compliant with the rule of law and that it be predicate on compliance with international law in the form of the treaty . the Government comment : " the treaty set out the international legal commitment that the UK and rwandan government have make consistent with their share standard associate with asylum and refugee protection . " this be the same treaty that the House of Lords agree a motion not to ratify on 22 January . it be the same treaty for which the Government refuse to allow time for member of this House to debate and reach a view on , despite a request from the Home Affairs Committee . the time period for objection be over and the Government can ratify the treaty as long as they lie a statement set out why they be do so despite the decision of the Lords . if the Government want we to accept their assurance that the treaty be itself evidence of compliance with international law , they should really have give this House the opportunity to debate that treaty . in the absence of such an opportunity , amendment 1 would provide the reassurance of compliance with domestic and international law . as the Government insist that the treaty and Bill already satisfy the criterion , it stand to reason that there should not really be any issue with the amendment . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I be go to carry on . the hon . Gentleman speak at length , and I want to get through a number of amendment . I turn to amendment 2 and 3 , which also relate to the treaty . in the other place , Lord Hope argue that Rwanda be declare a safe country should be dependent on the arrangement provide for in the treaty be " fully implement " and " adhere to in practice " , with amendment 3 set out what that would actually look like and give the independent monitoring committee a significant role in report on this . in response , the Minister in the Lords set out that the Government would ratify the treaty only " once we agree with Rwanda that all necessary implementation be in place " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 4 March 2024 ; Vol . 836 , c . 1358 . ] as we know , the Bill will come into force only once the treaty have be ratify . again , it would have be helpful and beneficial for this House to have have the opportunity to debate the treaty , yet scrutiny of its provision do not happen in the Commons , just as financial detail of the UK - Rwanda partnership have be hold back from Parliament until very recently . as highlight in last week ' s estimate day debate on asylum and migration , the Home Office repeatedly refuse the Home Affairs Committee ' s request for basic financial information about the scheme , and disclose some of the cost only after our Committee join force with the Public Accounts Committee to request a National Audit Office investigation . we now know that the core cost be very expensive : £ 370 million for the economic transformation and integration fund , an additional £ 20 , 000 per individual relocate , a furth £ 120 million once 300 people have be relocate and , on top of all that , £ 150 , 874 for each individual relocate to Rwanda . there be a direct cost to the Home Office of £ 28 million by the end of 2023 - 24 , with £ 1 million per year in staff cost and £ 11 , 000 for the flight cost of each individual relocate , and I still do not know whether the Home Office have be able to enter into a contract with an airline to deliver the removal to Rwanda . crucially , though , we still have not be tell the cost for implement the provision in the treaty , such as a new asylum appeal body . be there money available , and have it be allocate to pay for that ? we already know that the Home Office budget be under acute pressure . on 1 February this year , the Home Secretary request an emergency drawdown of £ 2 . 6 billion from the reserve , because the Department have run out of money before the supplementary estimate have be approve . with serious question still to answer about how the Government will fund the implementation of the treaty , and about its practical implementation , I believe that the amendment help to provide some necessary assurance that the Government have hitherto fail to provide to Parliament . amendment 4 and 5 would make it possible to argue that Rwanda be not a safe country on the presentation of " credible evidence to the contrary " and would allow appeal to be bring on that basis . respond on behalf of the Government , the Minister in the Lords say : " we have be clear that the purpose of this legislation be to stop the boat , and to do that we must create a deterrent that show that , if you enter the UK illegally , you will not be able to stay . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 4 March 2024 ; Vol . 836 , c . 1378 . ] the Home Affairs Committee have repeatedly ask both Ministers and senior official what evidence there be for the deterrent effect of the Rwanda scheme . the permanent secretary , Sir Matthew Rycroft , require a ministerial direction for the scheme , because there be no evidence that it would provide value for money . when he give evidence before the Committee last year , he say that this be because " the value - for - money judgment depend on the amount of deterrence that the policy will produce . " he note that although the number of people cross the channel be fall , it " be very hard to tell how much of that be the possibility of be relocate to Rwanda , particularly , as you suggest , before the first flight to Rwanda have take off . " the truth be that we actually do not have any idea whether the policy that this Bill facilitate will have the deterrent effect that the Minister cite . as I highlight in Committee of the whole House , it do not seem sensible for the Government to propose that the status of Rwanda as a safe country should be fix for ever more , which would , by extension , make Rwanda the only country on Earth in which nothing ever happen or change . amendment enable the presentation of evidence relate to those change and their implication for safety in Rwanda therefore seem eminently reasonable and , indeed , necessary . amendment 6 delete clause 4 and introduce into the Bill a new clause that allow much wide ground for legal challenge . the Home Affairs Select Committee have always recognise that appropriate legal challenge be a necessary part of any function asylum system . amendment 7 disapplie section 57 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , mean that people claim to be child could appeal against a decision that they be over 18 . the noble Baroness Lister , who table that amendment , explain that it be intend to " minimise the risk of any unaccompanied child be send to Rwanda " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 836 , c . 1577 . ] during the Home Affairs Committee ' s channel crossing inquiry , we hear multiple example of safeguard process fail across various part of the asylum system , include case of child be mistaken for adult . section 57 of the Illegal Migration Act refer to the process of age assessment in the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 . the Committee ' s channel crossing report note that that Act contain a number of provision relate to age assessment , include a new national age assessment board and power for the Home Secretary to make regulation specify scientific method for age assessment . our report note : " the provision be controversial because there be broad consensus that age assessment should not rely exclusively , or for some stakeholder , at all , on analysis of the skeleton or the tooth . " I be concerned that without the amendment table by Baroness Lister , the Bill could produce a situation where a child be wrongly assess as be an adult and send to Rwanda . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I be go to carry on , because I want other member to be able to speak . amendment 8 relate to the timetable for removal under the Illegal Migration Act . it would require the Home Secretary to lay before Parliament a statement set out all the individual whose asylum claim have be deem inadmissible since that Act receive Royal Assent . the statement would have to include the number of individual due to be remove to Rwanda and the timetable for those removal , as well as the arrangement for those individual not be remove to Rwanda . again , that be information that the Home Affairs Committee have already try to glean from the Home Office . indeed , when the Home Secretary appear before the Committee in January , I ask he how many individual whose asylum claim have be deem inadmissible since the Illegal Migration Act receive Royal Assent would be send to Rwanda . he reply : " that will depend on which other country we have return agreement with . " despite press he several time on that point , our attempt to ascertain any further information be unsuccessful . as the noble Lord Coaker say when move his amendment , this be a subject on which it would be good to have some fact . that be why his amendment have significant merit . will the right hon . Lady give way on that point ? the hon . Lady be try to get in , so I will give way , but I be keen to finish . I be grateful to she for give way , because I be hope to intervene on the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , on a similar point . when it come to fact , I be concerned that those be present be slightly selective , particularly in relation to age assessment . in the House of Lords , the evidence that be bring before their lordship be that — as the right hon . Lady know — the Age Estimation Science Advisory Committee , the expert committee that be independent and have be set up independently , have propose that the accuracy of age assessment will be improve in multiple way : not just use one biological method , but a range of method alongside the exist one . I be concerned that partial evidence about age assessment be be present in today ' s debate , and I would be very grateful for the right hon . Lady ' s confirmation that she support the inclusion of those important method of age assessment that the committee have recommend , in order to support accurate age assessment for safeguard child . very briefly , I be report what the cross - party Home Affairs Committee decide and put in our report on cross - channel small boat crossing . we produce that report nearly two year ago — this matter have be go on for some time . I be report our concern , which be widely share among all member of the Committee , about the problem that exist . it be very difficult to assess the correct age of a person who claim to be a child , so it be worth reflect that this be not easy , and the Home Affairs Committee be mindful and concerned about it . it would be very helpful if the Minister be able to give a little more information on the widely circulate story about the number of individual who might be send to Rwanda after Royal Assent . the story now seem to be that 150 people will travel to Rwanda , but that there will be a pause and that it will be a staggered process . it would be helpful to understand that and how it fit with the context of the thousand who have already be deem to be inadmissible to the asylum system . it would also be helpful to hear about the scheme ' s voluntary nature . again , it have be widely report in the press that people will be offer £ 3 , 000 to travel to Rwanda . all of this be widely circulate in the press , but minister have not give the House this information — the Home Affairs Committee certainly have not receive any information . as I say on Thursday , it be regrettable that we can not have access to financial and practical information about how scheme will work , and that we repeatedly have to ask for basic information to allow we to come to a view on the Government ' s proposal . the Home Office say it be very keen on scrutiny but , as Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , I have to say that have certainly not be my experience over the past few year . the Home Office do not want scrutiny , and any attempt to obtain information be rebuff . lord amendment 9 be table by the noble Baroness Butler - Sloss , a formidable character who have fight modern slavery for year . when she table amendment , we would do well to consider they carefully . her amendment would create an exception relate to the removal of victim of modern slavery and human trafficking : " a person with a positive reasonable ground decision from the National Referral Mechanism … must not be remove from the United Kingdom on the basis of the Rwanda Treaty until a conclusive ground decision have be make . a person with a positive conclusive ground decision … must not be remove … without a decision - maker consider whether such removal would negatively affect the physical health , mental health or safety of that person " . the Home Affairs Committee recently produce its report on human trafficking , in which we express our concern that " the Government be prioritise irregular migration issue at the expense of tackle human trafficking . " human trafficking be not an immigration offence but an exploitation offence , and the two thing must not be conflate . People should not have to choose between continue to be exploit or risk deportation to Rwanda — a point make to we very forcefully by the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . that be why I believe that Lords amendment 9 have merit . lord amendment 10 , table by the noble Lord Browne , would provide an exemption for people who have support the armed force overseas or who have otherwise be agent or ally of the UK overseas . when I look at the composition of those travel in small boat , the top group be from Afghanistan — 20 % — and it be worth consider why they be travel in small boat when we have set up scheme to facilitate people to travel from Afghanistan . these Lords amendment go some way towards address concern that the Home Affairs Committee have identify in relation to the Rwanda scheme , and I think the Government should give they serious consideration . I be disappointed that the Minister have be so dismissive of the genuine reason for table these amendment . I do not think the parliamentary scrutiny of the Bill and its associate treaty have be very satisfactory . a debate on the treaty be deny , and the provision of crucial information have be reject for month on end . to stop the small boat , and to make the asylum system fit for purpose , we need an evidence - base approach that be inform and strengthen by parliamentary scrutiny , which have sadly be limit during the passage of the Bill . rise — on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I in no way wish to seem churlish , but the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) refuse to accept an intervention from I on the ground that I have talk for too long . she have just manage to exceed the length of my speech by five minute — order . I have to say to the hon . Gentleman that that be not even a nice try . I call Alexander Stafford . it be a pleasure to speak in this very important debate , which be about defeat these awful amendment from the House of Lords and then get the Bill through Parliament , the flight off to Rwanda and the wheel down in Kigali . the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) claim that Labour support the Lords amendment not in order to wreck the Bill , but to help it along and make it well . yet we also hear from the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , speak from the SNP Front Bench , that they want to upset the Bill . these be clearly wreck amendment — there be no if or but about it . my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , in his rejection of Lords amendment 1 , make clear the dangerous precedent it would set — not just for this Bill but for all Bills — for the supremacy and primacy of this House , and that be the first thing we need to reflect on properly . this Parliament be sovereign . the House of Commons be sovereign . by take that sovereignty away from we , we upset everything . lord amendment 1 talk about compliance with the rule of law . how can it be against the rule of law when the democratically elect body of this House want something , and the free and independent sovereign country of Rwanda want something ? by reject the amendment , we will enhance our sovereignty and the Bill . it be clear that the Bill be need , but why be it so needed and why be it essential that we stop these wreck amendment ? for far too long we have have far too many illegal immigrant come into our country . those illegal immigrant , who be jump the queue by go outside the rule and regulation on how they should come into our country , be make it hard and hard for people in this country . the Bill be necessary , need and proportionate . illegal immigrant be put a huge strain on public service . they be put a huge strain on the thing that everyday people use : doctor , GP service , school . the human cost of people be kill as they travel across the channel need to stop . the financial cost to resident in Rother Valley and across our area need to be curtail . the amendment try to wreck the Bill , and that be why we need to double down . for some reason , we have have a lot of debate about how many people will go to Rwanda . that be clearly out of the scope of the Bill , but many Opposition Members mention it . we have hear estimate of 150 or a handful . I sincerely hope that the number will be in the thousand and ten of thousand , to get rid of the backlog and stop the illegal immigrant come here . fundamentally , the point of the Bill be to stop illegal immigrant come here . any attempt to wreck it be an open - door policy to let human trafficker traffic people illegally into our country and upset our local community . ultimately , more people will die if the Bill do not pass , because of the loss of life in the channel . no one have really talk about the Bill ' s deterrent factor . a similar process work in Australia , where illegal immigration rapidly decrease due to the deterrent effect , and it be important that we reflect on that . if we stop people come here in the first place , we will save life and save money , so it be so important that we get the Bill through . my hon . friend refer to the australian system , which be know as Operation Sovereign Borders . it be true that the offshore processing that Australia enjoy be only part of the solution , and the Government have always acknowledge that . Rwanda be not a be - all and end - all , but it be a critical part of our policy , as it be in Australia . I wonder whether he might comment on this : it seem to I that the House of Lords be either careless about the threat of our border be breach with impunity , or clueless because it do not know it be happen . which do he think it be : careless or clueless ? I would not wish to comment on what be go on in their lordship ' mind , but clearly they do not care about the concern of the average person in Rother Valley about the high level of illegal immigration , which I hear about when I knock on door . their lordship clearly do not care about the people die while try to cross the channel . they clearly do not care about the cost to the public purse of hundred of thousand of illegal immigrant come over here . they clearly do not care about the everyday person in the street . their lordship , ultimately , be not democratically elect and answerable to the people . we be , and that be the crucial point : we be the voice of the people , we be answerable to the electorate , we be answerable to our constituent , and we need to get this stop . there be so much more in the Lords amendment that will upset and disrupt the Bill , so I will touch on a few more of they . first , I want to talk about Lords amendment 4 and 5 , which talk about whether Rwanda be a safe country . I would be very careful about some of the word use by Opposition Members to describe Rwanda . fundamentally , Rwanda be a safe country . not only be we in this House declare it to be safe , but it be patently true . to say that Rwanda be not safe be a fundamentally colonialist attitude to other part of the world . we be say to another country , " your country be not safe ; your country be not good enough . " we on the Government Benches be say that Rwanda be safe . the 1 . 4 million tourist who go to Rwanda last year — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? of course . if Rwanda be such a wonderful place to be deport to , why would the prospect of be deport there be a deterrent ? that be an interesting point . I be under no illusion that Rwanda be a great country , but I will tell the hon . Gentleman a country that be even well than Rwanda : the United Kingdom . so of course they want to come to Britain , because we be a well country . that do not mean that Rwanda be not safe , or that it should not be safe . on Lords amendment 4 and 5 , the Government have already complete a detailed assessment that Rwanda be a safe country . we need to accept the fact of that assessment and start to take even more action while the boat crossing be low . and they be low : they be down 36 % last year . as my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) mention , that be because of the other stuff we be do such as the albanian deal , which be work , and stop the boat physically get to the source . do my hon . friend agree that another safe country be France ? I thank my hon . friend , who do so much work on this issue in her constituency . indeed , France be a very safe country — as be Spain , Italy , Germany and so many country cross by illegal immigrant . they should claim asylum in the first safe country . they have no duty or right to come over this way , but we do have a right and duty to protect our country , protect our border , protect our sovereignty and protect our people . that be why we need to have a clear idea of who be come here and ensure that we can deport the people we do not want or do not need , and process they elsewhere . turn back to Lords amendment 4 and 5 , we can not allow individual to challenge their removal ground on the basis that Rwanda be not a safe country . the UK Government have make the assessment and we can not let the amendment allow for individual to challenge their removal ground . new international treaty mean that our decision can not be second - guess , and that be vital in move forward with this legislation . I disagree with Lords amendment 6 and 9 , as Rwanda have its own safeguarding system to ensure the safety of individual who will be relocate to Rwanda . if we start question each claim and whether to send they to Rwanda , we be adhere to the idea that Rwanda be not a safe country , which contradict the safeguarding process that Rwanda have already introduce . we have already identify that Rwanda be a safe country , so it should not be up for interpretation base on an individual ' s claim that they can not be send there . I also disagree with Lords amendment 7 , as it can incorrectly favour individual who want to abuse our immigration system . we need robust measure to be implement to ensure that the Rwanda plan be execute with efficiency to prevent those who want to play the system . we need to ensure that this be the tough legislation ever . we need to do everything we can to prevent individual from impersonate child to bypass the Rwanda scheme . we have already discuss check on whether people be child . to protect child , we need to make sure who be a child and who be not . there be safe and independent way of verify a person ' s age . that go on in other country . I believe german and maybe France use similar process , and I do not think any of we be claim that France or Germany be not safe country . if it be good for they , it be good for we . we hear how the legislation in Germany and France be different from our , but if they can have such check , then so should we . they will safeguard the british people but also genuine child refugee , to make sure they be not put in an awful situation . I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for give way on two occasion . he will remember that when we be debate an early piece of legislation with the then Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , this issue of age verification be raise . my hon . friend be right to say that other country use it . on that occasion , my right hon . Friend explain why it be so important ; it be because the old so - call asylum seeker find to be here claim to be a child turn out to be 42 year of age . I thank my right hon . friend for that apposite intervention . that be the concern . have a situation where some people can claim they be child when they be 42 year old be not good for anyone . we have be debate the Rwanda scheme in one shape or form for two year , and , at every step of the way , Opposition Members have be wreck it . these amendment be just the late of their objection to it . do my hon . friend share my concern that the SNP object to the regulation on age verification , while the Labour party do not even vote on the regulation , which have to be carry by conservative vote ? I thank my hon . friend for that observation . that be shocking , and it just show where the care and safeguarding of child lie in their priority . as a local Member of Parliament , I know what Labour think about safeguard our girl in Rotherham . we should be able to look after everyone . this Bill will ensure that we look after the people in Britain , that we give sovereignty to our people and that we control our border . we have have two year of dither and delay , of wreck amendment , of plane not take off , of people be pull off plane , and of Opposition Members try everything possible to stop this well - need , well - like and well - support policy go forward . anybody try to support the amendment be no well than those who want to wreck the Bill and have an open - door policy . I say to all member of this House that we must reject the Lords amendment , we must stand up for Britain , we must stand up for our sovereignty and we must get wheel down in Kigali as soon as possible . I rise to support the Lords amendment . lord amendment 9 and 10 because they be basic humanitarian amendment design to exempt from the process of be send to Rwanda the victim of modern slavery and human trafficking , as well as our agent — our ally — who have support his Majesty ' s armed force overseas and person who have be employ or indirectly contract to provide service to the UK . it would be shameful if this House do not support those amendment . I will direct most of my remark to Lords amendment 1 to 6 . Lords amendment 1 relate to whether the Bill be fully compliant with the rule of law , and Lords amendment 2 to 6 broadly deal with the issue of the safety of Rwanda . as have be advert to early in the debate , I visit Rwanda last month as part of the Joint Committee on Human Rights delegation . we will be report in due course on our finding as part of our inquiry into the human right of asylum seeker . therefore , although I be Chair of the Committee , any comment that I make today be in a personal capacity , because the Committee have not yet deliberate . I be firmly of the view that Rwanda can not be describe as a safe country for the United Kingdom to send asylum seeker to . that be base on what I observe there , but also base on objective evidence about such arrangement as presently exist in Rwanda for asylum seeker — not refugee on their border , but asylum seeker — the degree of expertise among its immigration officer , lawyer and judiciary , and , crucially , evidence that the Joint Committee on Human Rights have receive about the state of human right in Rwanda , and perhaps , most importantly , information , collate by the Home Office , which I refer to early , about the state of human right in Rwanda . I will come on to that in a moment . when we be in Rwanda , we meet many Government official and organisation , most of whom meet with government approval , and naturally they have a good story to tell we . like the Supreme Court , I believe that they be in good faith , but we need to weigh that against the evidence of what we have hear from other , the evidence collate by the Home Office about human right abuse in Rwanda and also a recognition of how long it will take Rwanda to put in place the arrangement require by the fresh treaty , and for they to bed down . in connection with that , I remind member of this House what the House of Lords International Agreements Committee say when it undertake its scrutiny of the new treaty in January . it say : " while the Treaty might in time provide the basis for such an assessment " — of Rwanda as a safe country — " if it be rigorously implement , as thing stand the arrangement it provide for be incomplete . a significant number of further legal and practical step be require under the treaty which will take time " . the International Agreements Committee list those . it go on to say that " the arrangement put in place by the Treaty need time to bed in to demonstrate that they operate in practice . the Home Office have be unable to offer any clear timeline for implementation , but we " — the House of Lords International Agreements Committee — " agree with the evidence we receive that the Treaty be unlikely to change the position in Rwanda in the short to medium term . " rise — let I just develop this point , and then I will take some intervention . I agree with the House of Lords on that . it fit with what I observe on the ground in Rwanda , which I will come on to in a moment . importantly , the hon . member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , who be no long in his place , early refer to what he describe as the view of the UNHCR . when I meet UNHCR official on the ground in Rwanda , they say that they do not believe that Rwanda be a safe country for asylum seeker . they say that it will take systemic and structural change to happen first and then that change will need to cascade through the system . that will take time . I also believe that a great commitment to meaningful human right protection be require . the hon . and learn Lady be make , as she usually do , a consider argument base on her visit to Rwanda . I have not be there . I wonder whether , in make that argument , she be mindful that previously both the United Nations and the EU have designate Rwanda as a suitable place to accept refugee . what do she make of that ? the Rwandans host more than 100 , 000 refugee on their border who have come over from neighbouring country such as Burundi and the Congo because of conflict in those country . they be people from neighbouring country who have the ambition to go back to their own country as soon as they can , and they live in refugee camp on the border . they be a completely different category from asylum seeker who have seek to come to the UK and who be go to be send to Rwanda . that be not just my view ; that be the view of the UNHCR . rise — I will give way to the hon . member who be a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . I be also in that meeting with the UNHCR . be it not also true that when we question the official about their motivation for why they feel that we should not be send our asylum seeker there for processing , they be very clear that it be because they feel that we be shirk our responsibility , that we should be take all those asylum seeker , and that we have the capacity to . be it not also true that , in that meeting , they agree that they base their emergency transit base there , that they sponsor scholarship in rwandan university for refugee . it be a very safe place . let I quote from my own note . I say , " so , it ' s nothing to do with safety . it be because you feel that we should be do this ourselves . " and they say , " yes . " I , too , have detailed note of our meeting with the people from UNHCR . the hon . Lady be right to say that the UNHCR say quite clearly that it think that the United kingdom be shirk its responsibility , and actually so do I . that be my personal belief . I base that on the number of refugee there be in the world : there be more than 100 million displace people and more than 36 million refugee in the world . really quite a small number of they make their way to the shore of the United Kingdom . there will be a hell of a lot more in the year to come because of climate change , and my very firm belief be that the United Kingdom need to shoulder its responsibility as one of the rich country in the world , rather than shuffle these people off on to a country such as Rwanda which , as we see , have make great stride , but it can not be compare with the United Kingdom in wealth . a little more about why I do not believe that Rwanda can yet be describe as a safe country : I mention in an intervention that it be important to read the United Kingdom ' s Supreme Court judgment in its entirety , particularly paragraph 75 to 105 . the decision be base on a number of thing : evidence about the general human right situation in Rwanda , the adequacy of Rwanda ' s current asylum system , and Rwanda ' s failure to meet its obligation under a similar agreement regard asylum seeker with Israel in 2013 . there be a lot to the judgment . it be very rich in detail . the Court consider a lot of evidence over a long period . it be really not an adequate acknowledgment of the exercise in which the Supreme Court be engage to simply say that a few month later an Act of Parliament can change the reality on the ground and solve all the legitimate concern that the Supreme Court have about the situation in Rwanda . yes , the United Kingdom Government have enter into a new agreement , but the trouble be that none of the new measure to which Rwanda and the UK have agree be yet properly in place . the UK Government ' s insistence that , since the Supreme Court ' s consider judgment last year , Rwanda have miraculously become a safe country for asylum seeker can only be describe as a legal fiction . nothing I see on the ground in Kigali lead I to doubt that . when we be there , the relevant legislation be still go through the Parliament . the legal reform and new system agree have yet to be put in place , and although training have commence it be still very much in its infancy . the Supreme Court find that the Rwandans be act in good faith , but that " intention and aspiration do not necessarily correspond to reality " . have spend some time in Rwanda , and meet with Rwandan Government official , healthcare worker , Ministers , lawyer , those who will deliver the legal training , its national commission for human right and non - governmental organisation , I think that the Supreme Court get it right : the Rwandans be act in good faith , but intention and aspiration do not correspond to reality . we hear a very interesting fact : owe to their recent history , 80 % of Rwandans have themselves be refugee . as I say , on their border they accommodate well over 100 , 000 refugee and displace person from neighbouring country . many of the Rwandans I meet be at pain to emphasise to I that they see refugee as their friend , their brother and their sister . I be very strike by how their attitude contrast with the UK Government ' s hostility towards asylum seeker and desire to offload both their legal and , I believe , their moral responsibility to asylum seeker on to other . when the Joint Committee on Human Rights consider the UK Government ' s original agreement with Rwanda and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , we express concern that the policy " could be see as an outsourcing of the UK ' s own obligation under the Refugee Convention to another country . " I know that not everyone will agree with that , but give the number of displace person and refugee in the world compare with the tiny fraction we take , I think that we be not live up to our moral obligation . clearly , there be a legal argument that we be not do so . the Joint Committee on Human Rights also say , back when we consider the original agreement with Rwanda and the 2023 Act : " remove asylum seeker to a state where they face a real risk of serious human right abuse , or of be send on to a dangerous third country as a result of an inadequate asylum system , be inconsistent with the UK ' s human right obligation " . will the hon . and learn Lady give way ? I give way to the hon . Lady , who be also on the visit to Kigali . the hon . and learn Lady say that the UK be take a tiny number of refugee and asylum seeker . I be not sure that that be true , but I would be interested to know what she consider to be a reasonable number — or whether she believe that there be not one . I do not have time to get into redesign the system , but — [ interruption . ] well , during our inquiry , as the hon . Lady will recall , the Committee hear very detailed evidence about what might be a reasonable number , and how the number we take compare with the number of refugee in the world . we hear very detailed evidence from the chief executive officer of the Refugee Council , Enver Solomon , about what might be a compassionate but reasonable way for the United Kingdom to approach its moral and legal obligation . let I focus on why I support the amendment that relate to the lack of a safe situation in Rwanda . many of those I meet in Rwanda be very keen to emphasise that their write constitution contain good human right protection , which it do , but few of they be able to point to any case law show people in Rwanda take advantage of those protection , as we be — at least for the time be — able to in this country . I also find out when I be in Rwanda that in 2016 , the Rwandan Government withdraw the right of individual petition to the African Court on Human and Peoples ' right because they be unhappy with the way in which it handle claim bring by rwandan dissident . I could not help but see an echo in that of the UK Government ' s attitude towards the European Court of Human Rights when it make decision that they do not like . as I say in an intervention , the Home Office have compile a 137 - page country information note on human right in Rwanda , collate information from source range from the US State Department to Human Rights Watch , and set out serious shortcoming in the protection of human right in Rwanda . I ask the Minister about that , and he seem very reluctant to engage with that point . I hope that he will come back to it . how do he reconcile his , and his colleague ' , repeat insistence that Rwanda be a safe country with the 137 - page document issue by his own Government and update in January this year ? it set out how it collate the evidence , and say that it try to take thing only from reliable source . one of the big source in the document be the US State Department — the State Department of one of our major ally . would there not be some sense in allow Home Office decision maker to take account of the Home Office evidence that have be gather together in the way that the hon . and learn Lady describe ? the document be withdraw for a while and update in January , so I only see it and read it in detail just before my trip to Rwanda . I be really quite appalled that Government Ministers could continue to state that Rwanda be a safe country from a human right perspective in the face of the evidence that they themselves collate . I really want to hear a colourable answer to that point . before the Joint Committee on Human Rights leave the UK , we take step to find out about the human right situation in Rwanda . the evidence that we hear give I great cause for concern about the curtailment of freedom of expression in Rwanda for those who wish to criticise the Government . the US State Department , Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have report evidence of unlawful or arbitrary killing , disappearance and torture . one area of particular concern for asylum seeker send from the UK be the protection of same - sex - attract and transgender people . the Foreign Office travel advice for Rwanda warn british gay people and british tran people that individual " can experience discrimination and abuse , include from local authority . there be no specific anti - discrimination law that protect LGBT + individual " . when I put that to Government official and other with whom we meet , I be reassure that the rwandan constitution contain a general protection against discrimination , which it do , but sexuality and gender identity be not list there . crucially , nobody be able to show I any evidence that a gay or transgender person have ever avail themselves of the anti - discrimination protection in the constitution . People be at great pain to tell I that homosexuality and transgenderism be not criminal offence in Rwanda . sorry to be light - hearted , but whoop - de - doo . as a lesbian , I can tell the House that the mere fact that one be not criminalise be only the start of the story . I think Rwanda be where the UK be on LGBT right about 50 year ago . yes , it be ahead of many other african country because it be not illegal to be gay or tran in Rwanda , but there be no positive right and no equal right protection . we need to acknowledge that , because there be people who come to the United Kingdom because they be gay , transexual or transgender , and they know that we in the United Kingdom have great , world - class equal right for gay and transgender people . if they be come here for those protection , they be perfectly entitle to be concern about be send to a country such as Rwanda , where no such protection exist . many other come to this country because they be dissident in their country — they have criticise their government . they come to the United Kingdom , because — so far at least ; touch wood — we still have freedom of expression . I be not sure that Rwanda can be describe as have the same freedom of expression protection that we enjoy in the UK . asylum seeker also come to this country who have be human right defender in their country and have be persecute for it . again , touch wood , we in this country still have full human right protection . that , base on the evidence of the Home Office itself , be not the position in Rwanda . I thank the hon . and learn Lady for give way again . the anti - discrimination law in the rwandan constitution be not something that just ethereally hang there . in fact , be it not true that , because of their recent history of genocide , it be a deeply ingrain feeling among Rwandans that everybody be equal and there be no discrimination ? the law do not even allow ask someone whether they be Tutsi or Hutu . they be very , very sensitive to anybody discriminate about anything . be it not also true that the head of two non - governmental LGBT organisation we speak to be very clear ? we have a very good dig into this . my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) ask they whether it would be okay for gay people to hold hand walk down the street in Rwanda , and their answer be , " yes , of course . " the hon . and learn Lady then ask if there might be — order . that be a speech , not an intervention . I be terribly sorry , but I must ask the hon . Lady to resume her seat . my answer to the hon . Lady be that , as I say at the outset of my speech , in assess whether Rwanda be a safe country for asylum seeker , particularly LGBT asylum seeker , we need to consider what we hear from people when we be there , as well as the objective evidence . she will recall that I question several people on this subject . no one be able to give I an example of any gay or transgender person ever avail themselves of the law to protect their right . there be a difference between that and the position in the United Kingdom , where anyone who be same - sex attract or transgender be protect by the Equality Act 2010 and by the european convention on human right ; if they lose their job or be refuse housing , for example , they can go to court . we need to look at what we hear in Rwanda . we hear very positive thing from two Government - approve LGBT right non - governmental organisation , but there be also evidence — again , particularly in the Home Office note — suggest that the situation be rather different . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Jill Mortimer ) may scoff , but that note be prepare by her Government . the hon . and learn Lady be make a case about the importance of evidence . do she agree that there be evidence right in front of we in the fact that the UK Government accept asylum claim from a number of people from Rwanda at the back end of last year ? if it really be the paradise that we have just be hear about , and if we can guarantee that into the future , it be quite surprising that people from that country be claim asylum in the UK . rise — Order . before the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) resume her speech , I remind she that we be begin to go very wide again . I would be grateful if she could come back directly to the amendment , although I understand the context in which she be try to make her remark . while I be on my foot , may I say that , although I appreciate that she be be very careful , we be get on to fairly thin ice when we start talk about a JCHR report that have not be publish yet ? we need to be a little careful . I be crystal clear at the start of my speech that I be speak in a personal capacity , just as anything that I have write about my trip to Rwanda be write in a personal capacity . the report that I refer to be historical report of the Committee . I have go out of my way to make it clear that I be speak in a personal capacity . I explain in some detail that the Committee will deliberate , and will report on its trip to Rwanda in future . these be my personal reflection , but they be evidence - base , and I stand by they . I think that they be an important contribution to this debate — [ interruption . ] and I do not intend to be shout down by the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) , or anyone else who do not want to hear a lawyerly , evidence - base contribution . [ interruption . ] I be terribly sorry if I be bore he , but he will be pleased to hear that I be come to the end of my speech very soon . to sum up , base on the evidence that I have read and that the Joint Committee on Human Rights have hear so far , and base on what I hear and see on the ground in Kigali , I remain of the view that Rwanda be still not a safe country for asylum seeker , which be why I support Lords amendment 2 to 6 . I be fortify in do so by know that the House of Lords International Agreements Committee be of the same opinion when it undertake its scrutiny of the treaty , as be the UNHCR on the ground , which tell I that systemic and structural change need to happen in Rwanda , and then need to cascade . I believe that that will take time , and that a great commitment to meaningful human right protection be require . rise — Order . I say that we be skate on fairly thin ice because other , equally impressive legal advice suggest that there be three member of the Joint Committee in the Chamber who have come fairly close to quote report that have not yet be publish . I hope that the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) will accept the admonition in the term in which it be offer . I call Dr Caroline Johnson . I rise to support the Government in reject the Lords amendment . I will focus particularly on amendment 6 and 7 . amendment 6 state that " the Secretary of State or an immigration officer " could decide " if Rwanda be a safe country for the person in question " . it be clearly a wreck amendment . I wonder whether those immigration officer will go to Rwanda , as I and other member of the Joint Committee do last month , because if they do , their position on Rwanda may change . during our visit to Rwanda , I see in Kigali a beautiful city , and we meet many very welcome people . as the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) say , many people in the rwandan population be refugee , and as such , they be keen to support refugee and give they the good future . we see the housing and education provision that the Government of Rwanda have make , jointly with the UK Government , to support refugee on arrival , and the level of detail with which they have consider what people may need when they arrive . we see a country that have welcome people from Burundi , the Democratic Republic of the Congo and transit camp in Libya , and accommodate an entire medical school from South Sudan , a girl ' school from Afghanistan and a large number of LGBT individual from across african nation , because of its relative safety for they . we also see a country , scar by the genocide 30 year ago , that be keen and ambitious to work together for a cohesive and successful future . as for what we hear on our visit , in the word of her late Majesty the Queen , " Recollections may vary . " I think it would be helpful , as we have hear contrast opinion , to give a little information about LGBT protection . under propose subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) in Lords amendment 6 , a court or tribunal would be able to say that " Rwanda be not a safe country for the person in question or for a group of person to which that person belong " . I be very keen to see what LGBT right there be in Rwanda , and to learn whether it be indeed a safe country . while we be out there , we learn from a Supreme Court judge , the President of the Rwanda Bar Association and the chief executive of the legal aid Forum in Rwanda that Rwanda have an anti - discrimination law in its constitution , which can be litigate on , if need be . we visit Kepler , a high education college , where we speak to student and staff , include the chief executive , who have move to Rwanda from Canada , and the diversity officer for the institution . we hear from all those people — the student , staff , chief executive and diversity officer — that it be a safe place for LGBT individual to live . they do say that there be some who be what they call " quietly disapprove " , among some of the old population in Rwanda . I note that , while we have be talk , there have be a debate in Westminster Hill about LGBT content in the curriculum , which suggest , sadly , that the same may be true in this country . we also meet LGBT activist group , and I be not aware until the hon . and learn Lady say so that they be government - approve , or that any of the people we meet be necessarily government - approve in that respect . they describe themselves as lgbt activist — they be from two different organisation — and they , like other , tell we that gay people can walk hand in hand with each other and be able to campaign openly without fear . another issue I want to raise be about subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , in Lords amendment 6 , on " a decision - maker consider whether there be a real risk that … Rwanda will remove or send the person … to another State in contravention of … its international obligation . " this be the business of refoulement , which be bring up by our Supreme Court . how can someone prove they will not do something until they have not do it ? that be quite difficult to prove . I note that other hon . member have mention that somebody may have be subject to refoulement more than 11 year ago , and that may be true , but the question be whether it will be true now . Rwanda , which have the world watch it , have enter into a legally bind treaty . it be very ambitious for its future , and its population and Government be very genuinely care for those who seek refuge . why would they breach the treaty ? what damage would it do to the Rwandan Government ' s reputation to breach such a regulation by the refoulement of people ? it would do huge damage , and I therefore think we can trust they . have meet member of the Government and member of the public there , I think we can trust they not to do that . my hon . friend , as I and many other member of this House do , seek to strengthen this Bill , include clause 4 , know that people ' s individual circumstance as they game the asylum system can be acquire , alter or amend , and frequently be . however , Lords amendment 6 to which she refer not only do not strengthen the Bill ; it weaken it . it make clause 4 even weak , and the interim order that would be issue as a result of that amendment would delay , obfuscate and make a nonsense of the intention of the Bill . she know that — she have articulate it very well , as she always do — and the Lords know it too . this be a wreck amendment : nothing more and nothing less . I completely agree with my right hon . friend . it be , as he say , one of many wreck amendment that the Lords have pass . we understand that those in the other place wish to do so , but as a democratically elect Chamber , we need to send the Bill back to the Lords with a very clear message that this be what the people of the United Kingdom want to see . I want to clear up an issue relate to our meeting with the UNHCR , base on the contemporaneous note that I make in Rwanda and have with I in the Chamber today . the UNHCR representative in Rwanda be ask why there be an apparent contradiction between its desire to bring refugee to Rwanda from other nation , but specifically not from the UK — what be it about a person have come from the UK that make they less safe in Rwanda than a person who have come from Afghanistan directly , which do not seem to make sense to I ? the lady say very clearly that Rwanda be a welcome country . she say this have " nothing to do with the safety of Rwanda " , and she feel that the UK should keep its own asylum claimant and be concern about Rwanda ' s capacity . she also say that she think the UK have a more experienced system , and she feel that , because most of the current refugee Rwanda be accommodate — 95 % of they — be from Congo or Burundi , there be a similar culture , and a similar ethnic and religious population . she think there would therefore be great inclusion more quickly , and that people would integrate more quickly . I ask she to expand on whether the UN would be more supportive of the scheme if all the individual relocate be of such origin , but she be not willing to answer that question . I want to touch on Lords amendment 7 . there have be much talk this afternoon about the safety of child in Rwanda . the Government clearly have a duty to protect all child , but one of the challenge be that we know that there be people who will pretend to be a child when they be not ; my right hon . Friend give the example of a gentleman who do that at the age of 42 . the Government have to protect child by prevent they from be deport to place they should not be deport to , but they also have a duty to protect child in the United Kingdom from be accommodate or educate with people who be not child , and who may therefore cause they harm . in my view , the Government have a duty to make their good effort . these system be not perfect , but they be the good we have , so it be right that the Government make their good effort to ensure that they do assess the age of child use the most important medical intervention we have at the moment . I be pleased to say that I will be support the Government this evening . rise — order . we be introduce an eight - minute limit straightaway . I be hope to get the Minister on his foot to respond no later than 7 . 50 pm . clearly , if we finish before then , the Minister may have more time . this Government remain in disarray for all the wrong reason over this horrendous Bill . I applaud the noble Lords in the name of decency and humanity for bring forward these amendment . the decision to force those seek refuge here on to a cramp barge , the Bibby Stockholm dock at Portland port , be rightly condemn by human right group as inhumane and dangerous , and it have already see at least one suicide . yet this Government want to outdo themselves in their contempt for human right and life by send vulnerable asylum seeker , who have already be through a living and torturous nightmare to get here , to a country that our Supreme Court have rule can not be consider safe . the Government be now resist amendment from the other place that be clearly design to prevent injustice and to stop the Government exploit the Illegal Migration Act 2023 to truncate the process of force refugee to a country that do not become safe simply because it be call safe . that be how profound the Conservatives ' contempt for justice and the rule of law be . the idea that Rwanda become safe simply by declare it so be self - evidently nonsense . it be nothing more than a manoeuvre to scrape for vote by pander to racism . if the Government declare tomorrow that Gaza be safe — a safe destination — would that mean no more bomb , bullet or starvation there ? it seem that the Government think they can make juggle knife safe simply by declare it safe ; presumably any finger chop off would be someone else ' s fault — anyone else ' s — as long as our Government get their way . as the Lords amendment make clear , the Bill remain clearly at odd with human right law and our commitment under international convention . thus , the Lords amendment be an attempt to mitigate some of the bad harm of a manoeuvre that shame our nation . it be one that in effect try to opt the UK out of international human right law by say that the court can not take it into account , all while the Prime Minister try to save face by say that the UK will not actually be leave those international agreement . Amnesty International have rightly condemn this assault on human right as " callous , immoral and an attack on the basic protection that keep we all safe . " it be also a hugely expensive one . this wicked scheme have already cost the UK £ 240 million in payment to Rwanda , with at least another £ 130 million to come . the Bill fail to understand that there be no such thing as an illegal asylum seeker , and that safe and legal route be need to well protect all asylum seeker . this Bill be ridiculous and toxic , racist and cruel , and it show contempt for our legal system . the Government would have we believe that such attitude reflect british value , but surely the people of this country stand for something well than stoke fear and hate towards desperate refugee alongside disdain for our legal system . I believe this whole Bill should be reject , but I support all the amendment send from the other place , as they go at least some way towards reduce its poison . all member who have sit through debate on these matter in recent year must be feel a strong sense of d é j à vu today . it be almost two year ago today that we be consider Lords amendment to the Nationality and Borders Bill , some of which fit closely in with this debate and the amendment that have come back from their lordship . they touch on process asylum claim for third party , issue around the safeguarding of child , and , obviously , the safety of asylum seeker . this debate and these Lords amendment should be focus on the provision in this Bill , and ensure that the migration and economic development partnership — that be what it be call — with Rwanda can be operationalise and deliver as plan . the House of Lords have a vital role to play in provide challenge and scrutiny . I — like , I hope , all member — have read the contribution from the debate in the other place . Lord Baker of Dorking , who understand these issue , have be Home Secretary in the 1990 , make some insightful comment on deal with migration and the challenge and on the wide issue around asylum seeker , criminality and all those point that encapsulate the challenge confront the Government . today ' s debate about the amendment should be a balance act , recognise that there be political choice that have to be make . we have to recognise that some of the international convention and agreement on human right that have be mention be design in a different era . the UNHCR have be mention and I have have many direct conversation with its director . it subscribe to the EU ' s position of burden share across country around the world , but that be not a position we subscribe to and we should continue to uphold that and stand up for our own position . the Government , through their proposal , be try to put forward solution . I note that the Lord Bishop of Durham speak in measured and thoughtful term about the development and commitment from Rwanda , but he raise concern over the opportunity that would exist for those transfer to Rwanda . that be why we negotiate this partnership . it be an economic and migration partnership . it be an innovative approach , as I be the first to say when I launch it from the Dispatch Box . it be novel and it be innovative but , importantly , we put security and scrutiny measure in place . the monitoring committee , which have not be discuss enough today but be mention in the Lords amendment , basically do what this House have ask for , as their lordship themselves will know . I be very concerned that some of the amendment be intend to derail the Bill and what be a pragmatic and innovative — I should stick with that word — approach to tackle these issue . I want to touch on a few of the amendment , but many have be debate already so I will not cover they all . my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) touch on amendment 1 and I be in complete agreement with he . lord amendment 7 , table by Baroness Lister , on child have be subject to debate . we must recognise that it be the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 that put forward amendment and change around safeguard child in our education system and local government system . that be vital . the Lords table this amendment offer we a moment to reflect on implement these measure and proposal ; that be absolutely vital , as these be important provision . do my right hon . friend agree that measure to assess the age of child be necessary as there be adult who will pretend to be child ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . when I be Home Secretary , the case be bring to I of a 42 - year - old who be masquerade as a child , and that become a national story . through that , we look at the age assessment measure and work with scientist , and we look at EU country and what they be do . I urge the Government to get on and implement the provision . time have lag too long now ; almost two year have pass , and these safeguard and protection be absolutely critical . it be important to remind the House , especially those tempt to back the Lords amendment , of the reason why we have this Bill and the partnership . again , it be because of the global challenge that we face on migration . this be not about a disregard for human life . that be what the people trafficker have , and that be what we be have to tackle : life lose at sea in the channel , and horrific and brutal act . I have hear about they and I have see they and I know , sadly , too much about criminal gang benefit and profiteer from these barbaric act . the partnership itself be evolve ; it be start to look somewhat different from the original economic and migration partnership , and that link to the concept of voluntary removal raise by the shadow Front - Bench spokesperson the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) . we touch on it last Thursday in the estimate debate as well . in the light of the recent announcement , I be sure the Minister will address it and that their Lordships and all member will want to press on it as well . there be benefit to voluntary return — the principle have be in place for a number of year and it do work and we should encourage it — but there be the whole issue about re - entry ban . section 40 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 amend section 24 of the Immigration Act 1971 to deal with re - entry . we have to be honest about this : they do take place even though voluntary removal happen . whatever happen in term of the operationalisation of this Bill , it be important now that loophole be shut down effectively . the voluntary removal scheme be strong , but we must make it work . my final point be that that there be so many aspect to these amendment , even Lord Browne ' s amendment . it be tragic that we be debate Afghans who should have be resettle in the right way in our country for various reason . it pain I to listen to the Lords debate this . we have a proud record in this area and all of our constituency have be host to so many people from Afghanistan . I remember Operation Pitting as if it be yesterday ; it be a moment of crisis and Border Force staff be put into Afghanistan and into Kabul to do the right thing — to do the airlift and to work with the Ministry of Defence . it be a harrowing time , but the afghan relocation and assistance policy scheme and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme and everything that follow be do in good faith , and we must uphold those principle . to conclude , this be a pivotal moment for the Safety of Rwanda Bill and the Government ' s overall approach . I will be vote against the Lords amendment but , whatever direction the House choose to take on this overall policy , we must recognise that we be send out a very strong message to the british people , who be exasperate because they see a government whose hand be constantly tie . there be a carousel now — a revolving door with setback after setback — and the Government must now be give not just the benefit of the doubt , but the tool and the ability to get on and operationalise this policy . we be at a pivotal stage . the right hon . Lady mention the afghan scheme . I understand that the debate be about the safety of Rwanda , but I have a concern about this , and I have deal with afghani refugee as the right hon . Lady know . many of they be on the edge of real mental health issue as a result of the trial they have experience , and I think the experience of they come here and be put at risk of be deport again to another state will push many of they over the edge . that must be take into account as a factor , and that be why the amendment from the Lords be so significant . I absolutely and fully understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s position on this , but this be a moment of reflection for the Government , too , particularly around those who serve our country and work alongside we in Afghanistan . the Government need to clarify how they have aid and continue to aid those people , some of whom be on the border of Pakistan , which have a range of migration and governance problem right now . to conclude , we be at a pivotal moment with this legislation . we be also at a crucial moment in our relationship with the Government of Rwanda , who have be a solid and respected partner , diligently work with we . obviously I speak with full experience , as the original architect of the migration and economic development partnership . we have to go back to the basic of that partnership . as I say last week in the House , thing have move beyond some of the core principle of the original partnership . I urge the Government to do what they need to do in this House today and to settle some of the issue , but really they need just to knuckle down and work on the operational delivery of the scheme . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . Lady , particularly give the context she give to this debate , which be important and worth reflect on for a second or two . she remind we that this be in fact the third bill in this area in this Parliament . indeed , as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , point out towards the end of his remark , we now have another innovation : people be to be offer a cash payment to take the opportunity of go to Rwanda . what do three Bills and a still evolve political situation and portfolio of arrangement tell we ? they tell we that this Government have no strategic purpose in how they be tackle this problem , and that have become apparent from a number of the intervention today . we have speak an awful lot about the rule of law . to be honest , this Bill and this debate be not about the rule of law ; they be an entirely political exercise . I be pretty certain that the Government will win the vote tonight , that they will face down their lordship , and that they will get their way . I would be astonish if any of the legislation make any significant difference at the end of the day , because this be not about the law or even about a meaningful approach to the problem of boat in the channel ; it be all about politic in the run - up to the election . one of the most tell intervention come from the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) and his point about permanence , which be absolutely on point . it be not without significance that nobody have choose to pick it up , because I do not think there be an answer — or , at least , no good answer . on the question of permanence , let we not ignore the context of where Rwanda be and where Rwanda have be politically and in relation to its neighbour . in January , the US State Department be say to Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo that they have to walk back from the brink in the conflict between they . if either or both of they choose not to , where will that leave the safety and stability of Rwanda as a destination for we to send people ? the determination , as the shadow Minister say , to legislate to say that somehow or another the sky can be green and the grass can be blue take no account of those real challenge that be come down the track . the Government should look at the author of the amendment that they will knock back today . one be Lord Hope of Craighead . I remember when he be first appoint as Lord President in Scotland , and I have watch his progression through to be head of the Supreme Court . this be not a man give to make grand political gesture . this be no wide - eyed radical . when he come up with an amendment to say that the purpose of the Bill should be do in accordance with domestic and international law , that make perfect sense . it be not to be forget that the root of this legislation be to be find in a Supreme Court judgment . that cause enormous frustration in Government circle , and we do not forget that , but obey the law be not an optional extra for any Government . even if what we be try to do here be to circumvent the scrutiny of the court , to resist an amendment that say that decision - maker should treat Rwanda as safe " unless present with credible evidence to the contrary " simply defy any sense of logic . the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) make extensive reference to the Home Office guidance on human right in Rwanda . her point be good , but it be a nonsense , surely , that in the Home Office , people be beaver away , work out the human right position in Rwanda , while in another office in the same building , people be draft clause say that the people who will then make the decision should not allow to take any account of it . that make no sense . if we be serious about find a solution to the problem and break the business model of the people trafficker , the Government would be take in the Opposition , the scottish nationalists , ourselves and all party to try to find a common way forward . in fact , they be do the opposite . they be seek to manage the issue politically in such a way as to increase division and not to build consensus . in the time remain to they in government , they will be able to win vote like this , but they will not do anything to stop the traffic . ultimately , they will have to be replace by those who will . I rise to reject and oppose all 10 of the Lords amendment . in the other place last week , peer after peer speak of this Bill as an outrageous affront to the law or " international law " . with great respect , there seem to be a collective amnesia that it be Parliament that be sovereign and that Parliament secure sovereign authority over generation from what have previously be an absolute monarchy . it probably stem from the Glorious Revolution of 1688 . Parliament for century now have have sovereign authority to pass any law whatever . no law that Parliament pass can be " outside the law " . in our system , it be Parliament that be supreme . despite the misnomer of the court that Tony Blair invent , it be Parliament that be supreme , not lawyer or judge . that be unlike the United States , for example , where judge can strike down a law pass by Congress as unconstitutional . in fact , the UK legislature could do the opposite of that , and strike the Supreme Court down out of existence , if such be Parliament ' s will . that is , after all , what Tony Blair himself do when he abolish the 150 - year - old principle of the Law Lords and the House of Lords as our high court and create the Supreme Court just a few year ago . many think that be an act of constitutional vandalism , and I happen to agree , but whether or not one do , it be axiomatic that what Blair do , one of his successor can at least in theory undo . that be the nature of our system . as my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) say early , Parliament derive its authority from the people , and that be why parliamentary sovereignty be so important . it be not an aggrandisement . the law be a living , fluid concept . People change and people ' s view change , which be why it be right that the people ' s elect representative in Parliament can have sovereignty over decision that be make . two hundred year ago , draw graffiti on Westminster Bridge be an offence punishable by death ; now people can block ambulance on Westminster Bridge and receive no more than a small fine . the law have change in 200 year , and it be imperative that we bear in mind that it be a fluid concept . it have to keep up with the wish and will of the people . the point be that society change and the law change with it , and that be a major advantage of the english common law system . today , the british people have elect leader — such as my right hon . friend the Prime Minister of this country — who advocate a policy of increase vigilance on immigration , and the elect politician must be able to enact law in accordance with the wish of the people , even if lawyer and member of the other place do not like it . that be the very essence of democracy . I have work in the law all my life — it be 30 year since I be call to the Bar — and I know that the law be not the master of the people , but a servant of the people , as be this House . it must serve the wish of the british electorate and , if necessary , adapt accordingly . the british people ' s current wish on immigration be clear , and the Prime Minister be right to enact they . this be not just a constitutional position . nine people have die try to cross the English Channel in small boat this year alone . the late victim of the smuggling gang be a seven - year - old girl , whose overloaded boat capsize in a french canal . for this reason , stop the boat be not just a political imperative ; it be a moral necessity . only when those come to the UK illegally know that they can not stay will they stop risk their life and the life of other . I be sorry to say , however , that to Labour and Crossbench peer in the House of Lords last week , it seem to be an outrage to try to stop this trade in human misery by establish what would be an effective deterrent through the Rwanda partnership . notwithstanding the contribution of some member in the other place who be oppose this process , it be clear to anyone who read the Supreme Court ' s judgment of last year that the Bill be the constitutionally appropriate response to it . the judgment relate to the condition in Rwanda at the time of the original challenge in June 2022 , and Lord Reed , the senior judge in the Supreme Court , be explicit about the fact that the issue identify could be address in future . in other word , the Supreme Court explicitly invite Ministers of the Crown to remedy the problem that they have identify in their judgment , and that be precisely what his Majesty ' s Government have now do , with a treaty that be bind under the international law framework that Labour and Crossbench peer so admire . nor do the Bill oust the jurisdiction of the court . that be another misapprehension . judge will be able to consider human right claim and judicial review ; they will just do so after people have be send to Rwanda — unless , of course , claimant can prove that they will face a real risk of serious harm in Rwanda , in which case they can stay in the UK while the appeal be hear . order . if the right hon . and learn Gentleman could mention the amendment now and again , that would be very useful . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker . that arrangement be entirely reasonable — and , as I say at the beginning , the amendment be relevant to this whole concept . if one come to this country illegally , one should not have the ability to repeatedly prevent one ' s removal , at vast expense to the taxpayer . however , because of Labour vote that be no doubt whip by the Leader of the Opposition , the House of Lords defeat the Government 10 time on amendment , seek to neuter the Bill and ensure that no one be ever send to Rwanda . they do not vote down the Bill , and do not vote for these 10 amendment , because they want it to work ; they do so because they do not want it to work . what none of those peer on the Opposition Benches do be provide an actual alternative to the Rwanda partnership . none of they could say how they would deter people from get into overloaded dinghy on the beach of northern France , or prevent the death that will surely follow . in vote against the Bill , the Lords be therefore constitutionally , legally and morally wrong , and I urge the House to overturn their amendment . I be grateful for the opportunity to take part in the debate . this Bill be an affront to the principle that human right be universal and belong to all of we by virtue of our humanity . the amendment from the other place be an attempt to stop the Government violate that principle and , I would argue , undermine not just Parliament but the court and the rule of law in the process . despite unacceptable and unparliamentary pressure from the Prime Minister , who urge peer to rush their scrutiny and simply go along with his dangerous , authoritarian Bill , they have rightly inflict 10 defeat on the Government . they have do so by large majority , signal profound opposition to the Prime Minister ' s deeply illiberal , deeply inhumane Rwanda legislation . the Home Secretary ' s motion to disagree be consistent with this Government ' s track record of cruelty towards people seek asylum . we see another example of that very recently in the Home Office ' s jaw - drop admission that it do not routinely inform family member when asylum seeker die in Home Office care . lord amendment 1 , table by Lord Coaker , simply add maintain full compliance with domestic and international law to the purpose of the Bill . one might have imagine that that would not be up for debate , and it be a measure of how low this Government have sink that they be oppose an amendment which simply say that their Bill should comply with the rule of law , something I have think Conservative Members be mean to believe in . in particular , the amendment be need to stop the disapplication of the landmark Human Rights Act , something I believe we should be proudly defend . it be also need to protect interim measure — a vital human right tool under international law , issue on an exceptional basis in extreme circumstance when individual face a real risk of serious and irreversible harm . the Bill state that " the Parliament of the United Kingdom be sovereign " and that " the validity of an Act be unaffected by international law " , and we have hear a great deal more of that from Conservative Members this afternoon . I think that Ministers should stop misuse the concept of parliamentary sovereignty , which be not embody by ride roughshod over the court . let I draw their attention to a point make very clearly by Professor Mark Elliot , chair of the faculty of law at the University of Cambridge . as he explain , " Parliament can be meaningfully sovereign only within a functional legal and constitutional system — and such a system can only exist if its other component element be permit to play their proper part . " I suggest that that be exactly the principle that the Government be seek to trample over with the Bill , which bring I to the way in which the Government be attack parliamentary sovereignty by undermine the jurisdiction of the court . lord amendment 6 , in the name of Baroness Chakrabarti , be vital . it would allow our court to play their proper part : to hear evidence and scrutinise the legality of government decision , allow our system to protect individual from risk to life or inhuman or degrading treatment . likewise , Lords amendment 4 and 5 at least allow for the presumption in the Bill that Rwanda be safe to be rebut . without these amendment , the Bill direct court to ignore the fact that be in front of they . the amendment be a modest reprieve for fact and evidence in what remain a thoroughly vile bill . it be extraordinary that the Government can be so fearful of evidence . why would they not want to look at the evidence before they ? let I refer they to the recently publish World Report 2024 , which deal with human right in Rwanda and make pretty grim reading . it state : " commentator , journalist , opposition activist , and other speak out on current affair and criticize public policy in Rwanda continue to face abusive prosecution , enforce disappearance , and have at time die under unexplained circumstance . " I also urge member to consider how constitutionally and legally astonish the Bill be . the Joint Committee on Human Rights have be explicit about how extraordinary it be , state that " require the court to conclude that Rwanda be safe , even though the evidence have be assess by the UK ' s high court to establish that it be not , be a remarkable thing for a piece of legislation to do . " that bring I to Lords amendment 2 and 3 , which stand in the name of Lord Hope of Craighead , the former Deputy President of the Supreme Court . there have be much discussion about they , but they require monitoring of the safety of Rwanda , while accept the assertion that the treaty make Rwanda safe . let we suppose for a moment that we suspend our disbelief and our notice of all the evidence now that suggest Rwanda be not safe . even if it be safe , how on earth can we be legislate that it will be into the future , for any degree of indefinite time ? much in this Bill be an affront to common sense , but that seem to be in a league of its own . fact change and when they do , we need to change our view of those fact — to do anything less be move towards a moment of madness . I want to be clear that although I will vote to uphold these Lords amendment , because they be an improvement on this dreadful Bill , I maintain my view that seek to legislate by assertion that Rwanda be safe be as dangerous as it be ridiculous . the Government can not sign a quick treaty one week and legislate the next to make a country safe , when the high court in the land have say just the opposite . the fact on the ground be what matter and these amendment say that the fact should be monitor . what kind of Government would oppose that ? to conclude , I will vote to uphold Lords amendment 1 to 10 because they make this Bill slightly less constitutionally transgressive and inhumane . the Home Secretary ' s motion to disagree with the Lords be laughable , come just day after he have be exploit the desperation of vulnerable people by offer they £ 3 , 000 to go to Rwanda voluntarily . amend or not , the Bill remain a grotesque waste of money that be neither practical nor strategic ; it be no less than a piece of performative cruelty from a die Administration . leave aside the decision of the Court , on Lords amendment 9 we be in danger of reverse the work that this House have put in to ensure the protection of victim of modern slavery and traffic ; remove the amendment make they vulnerable again , particularly to re - traffic . I can not for the life of I understand why there be not support from the Government for Lords amendment 9 , which merely assert the decision maker ' s opportunity to assess the impact on the physical and mental health of the individual and their potential to be re - trafficked . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention and he be absolutely right in what he say . it be ironic that by refuse these amendment , the Government be , in a sense , go back on pledge and commitment they have make on try to uphold issue relate to human trafficking ; this Bill be hugely damaging on so many level . other have speak about amendment to provide at least some possible protection for unaccompanied child or for victim of modern slavery and those at the high risk of harm if remove to Rwanda . we must consider what vote against those amendment mean , just as we must do in respect of Lords amendment 10 , which relate to the people in Afghanistan who have do so much for we , put their own life at risk for our Government and our country . on the idea that we would simply send they off to Rwanda , the right hon . Gentleman have already make a powerful intervention about what that would do for people who be already so vulnerable . I sum up with a message that I hope that peer in the other place will consider . it be , of course , right and fundamental that the House of Lords should act in accordance with its subordinate position in relation to this elect House of Commons — that be the usual way in which we proceed . for the other place to override the Commons , the bar must be an extraordinary and profound attack on the very fabric and operation of our constitutional democracy . I regret to conclude that this Bill be just that and so the other place would be well within its right — indeed , this be its responsibility — to uphold the amendment it have already put in place . this Bill be demean and degrade both Houses by ignore the rule of law that we have pass . furthermore , the Bill seek to legislate fact and prevent court from consider they . fix the fact on which the law be to be apply be the kind of think that dangerous conspiracy be base on . that way lie authoritarianism . I urge those in the other place to put a stop to this Bill , and I urge everyone in this House to vote in favour of the amendment tonight . I note your strong exhortation to address the amendment , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I will address they in turn . it be tempting to get into a debate about whether the Bill offend the rule of law . " the rule of law " be use as an absolute term , but it be in fact a political term ; it be an important principle that underlie much of our constitution , but it be sometimes misuse and elevate in a way that do not do it or the debate justice . inevitably , we have have wide discussion about the safety of Rwanda as a country , and about the geopolitic , but that miss the point . the point be whether we can be satisfied that the Rwandan Government be meet the obligation they agree to in the treaty of late 2022 . that treaty be underpin by a Government Command Paper and be , in effect , the basis of the Government ' s answer to the exam question put to they by their lordship in the Supreme Court . in the other place , Lord Howard of Lympne speak powerfully about the need for the arm of the constitution to respect each other , and I entirely agree with he on that . I have say the same here in debate on this issue . we be perhaps not in the place that constitutionalist like I want to be in , but none the less , we be deal with a judgment of the Supreme Court , base on the merit of the case and the test that it be allow to apply : be there be a risk of a breach of the european convention of human right — or , in this case , more a risk of refoulement as set out under the refugee convention ? the Supreme Court decide that there be a risk , and the Government have rightly try to take action to fill that gap . I simply ask the Minister : be he satisfied that the helpful step outline by their lordship ' International Agreements Committee in its report of 17 January be be undertake ? I refer to those nine point that Ministers in the other place be press on repeatedly by , among other , Lord Carlile of Berriew , who make the point powerfully . I will not recite the nine step , but they relate to make sure that Rwanda ' s process for deal with claim be fair , transparent and in accordance with the treaty that it enter into . it be important that the Government and the Minister address that point . lord amendment 1 just add more potential justiciability and legal argument to a clause that , as I have say on other occasion , I despise , because it be full of declaratory law at good , and it create a lot of legal opportunity for my colleague in the profession ; I declare an interest , of course . I do not think that we can perfect the clause by add Lords amendment 1 . however , Lords amendment 2 and 3 seem to have force , because if we be to go down this road of use deeming provision , it be vital that we do not end up in a position where the law go so far ahead of reality — say , through Rwanda ' s failure to carry out its treaty obligation , or its slowness to do so — that we create that legal fiction that a lot of we be rightly worried about . I be therefore minded to support Lords amendment 2 and 3 . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for allow I to intervene before he move off Lords amendment 2 and 3 . as he know , I share his concern about the artificial finality that the Bill ' s draft present . when it come to the treaty , do he agree that the problem with amendment 2 and 3 be that they give all the authority to the monitoring committee ? they allow it to determine that there have not be adequate compliance with the treaty , and under the amendment , that automatically feed through to a statement that Rwanda be no long a safe country . under the rubric of the rest of the Bill , that decision should remain with the House of Commons and the House of Lords , not with the monitoring committee . my right hon . and learn Friend make a powerful point . the amendment be capable of perfection . the suggestion that I think I make on Report be that the Bill should not to come into force until a Minister of the Crown be satisfied that Rwanda have meet its treaty obligation both internationally and domestically . I take his point — more can be do — but there be force in their lordship pursue that point , so that we marry up the reality with what we want to achieve legally . unless that be do , I be minded to support Lords amendment 4 and 5 , because I be yet to be satisfied that we be in a position where a deeming clause , although not unprecedented — they have be use on a number of occasion — or unconstitutional , be reflective of the reality . the Lords amendment relate to clause 4 complicate the position . that clause be clearly draft to deal with individual case , and I do not think that we should upset that . lord amendment 7 and 8 do not take matter significantly far . however , Lords amendment 9 and 10 have some force . exemption relate to modern slavery should be clear . we have lead the world in our modern slavery legislation , and have a proud record on it . that work be lead by my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) and other in their lordship ' House . it would be unfortunate , to say the least , to end up with the Bill ride a coach and horse through our important provision on modern slavery ; I be sure that be not the intention of my colleague on the Front Bench . finally , on the afghan provision , both my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and I be in the trench , work on that issue , back in the summer of 2021 . I be help to get judge out of Afghanistan , while she be work day and night to ensure that we save people who have risk their life for our way of life . I take her point and , in fact , would go far : although I expect the Government to be sensible and sensitive to the position of any future afghan refugee and not put they into this scheme , it seem to I that we would lose nothing by accept amendment 10 . for the reason that I have give , the Lords amendment be a curate ' s egg , as all Lords amendment will be , but there be time when it be important that a point be make . I be afraid that this be one of those occasion when I will make that point . the Democratic Unionist party support the Bill , wish it to come to fruition , and hope that it achieve its objective . I will not rehearse all the reason why , which have be give plenty of time in other debate , but we must tackle the criminal gang . we can not go on with the pressure and cost that mass illegal immigration put on society , the Government and the taxpayer . for that reason , we will oppose most of the Lords amendment . as the Minister and other speaker have point out , many of the amendment be design to weaken the Bill , undermine it , and ensure that it do not work , so that we remain with the old , flawed system that we have be try to put aside . the Minister say that the Government oppose the Lords amendment because they do not want the Bill weaken , and he be right , but the Bill be already weaken in respect of one part of the United Kingdom . I seek assurance from he ; how do he come to the conclusion that push the Bill through will safeguard all part of the United Kingdom against illegal immigration that be be channel through different part of it ? the Government promise in " safeguard the Union " that the Bill will apply to the whole of the United Kingdom , but that be write in full knowledge that follow a court judgment in Northern Ireland , the Bill could not apply there because of section 7 of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 and article 2 of the Windsor framework . two more court judgment since then have make it quite clear that because of article 2 , the Bill can not apply to Northern Ireland , where the full weight of EU law and the full protection of the european convention on human right and the european charter of fundamental right apply . that mean that many part of the Bill will be disapplie in Northern Ireland . there be three court ruling on this . the Government know what be in the Windsor framework , the withdrawal agreement and the withdrawal Act , yet they continue with the argument that , despite all that , the Bill apply to Northern Ireland . I would like to hear from the Minister where that assurance come from , give that he know the term of the legislation and the Windsor framework , and about the three court judgment — from October , February and the end of February . if Northern Ireland become the weak spot , the policy become meaningless . People think , " the boat aren ' t go to come from France across the sea to southern Ireland on a 24 - hour journey , and people will not come up through to Northern Ireland , " but it must be remember that of 77 city in the United Kingdom , Belfast already have second - high number of illegal immigrant per 10 , 000 of population . there be already a channel through the Republic into Northern Ireland and then , of course , into England . that need to be address , because a promise have be make in a Government deal , and because of how that could undermine the whole immigration policy . of course , if Northern Ireland do become that channel , the real danger be that we finish up not just with a border for good , but with passport control for people move from Northern Ireland . order . could you mention some of the amendment as well ? yes , I be do so , Mr Deputy Speaker . the point I be make be that we will support the Government in reject Lords amendment 1 to 6 because they weaken the Bill , but the Government must recognise that their own inaction be also weaken the Bill . I be surprised at the attitude that the Government have adopt to Lords amendment 8 . since the policy be design to assure people that the Government have get on top of illegal immigration , I would have think they would have welcome the opportunity to publish daily the number of people who have be remove from the United Kingdom . in fact , I would have think they might have do a Ken Livingstone : put a banner on the building across the river and publish daily , " this be how many people we have remove . " be the reality that the Government know that the Bill will not have the want effect , and that the publication of such information would be an embarrassment ? we support that amendment , because we believe that there should be a very public way of judge the success of the policy . I really can not understand the Government ' s attitude to Lords amendment 10 , either . we have a duty to those who serve with the Army in Afghanistan at difficult time , put their life in danger , and who be now in danger of lose their life under the brutal Taliban regime , which want to take revenge . it be not that people could use such a provision to sneak their way into the United Kingdom ; we have good record on those who serve the Army . they and their family be at risk , and surely we have a duty to they . I remember speak to people from Northern Ireland who serve in Afghanistan . they speak glowingly of the folk who interpret for they , and the folk who give they background knowledge , supply they with information , go out with they on patrol daily and so on . we have a duty to those people . I can not understand why the Government would resist Lords amendment 10 . we will certainly be support it , because we believe we have that obligation . I would like to hear from the Minister how the promise make in paragraph 46 of the " safeguard the Union " deal will be deliver in Northern Ireland , give that court have judge and rule that the Bill can not apply in Northern Ireland . if it can not apply in Northern Ireland , be the Government aware of the consequence for Northern Ireland of be far isolate from the rest of the United Kingdom ? it be always a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) . I agree with much of what he say , but I will differ from he on the one or two amendment he plan to support . it be worth remember the purpose of the Bill . it be about deal with one of the knotty problem in illegal migration policy , which be what we do about those who leave a safe and democratic country to come to the UK , as a choice , who we then can not return to their home country — either because of the domestic policy of the country , which the Minister will know about , or because it be a country we be realistically not go to be able to engage with on immigration removal . then they seek to take advantage of our asylum system . in many case , that be the core of the people trafficker ' business model . these people can include those who have have lawful residence in another safe , democratic country but then come to this country and apply for refugee status . for I , the Bill have to be about deliver a process that break the people smuggler ’ business model . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) — I be pleased to see he in his place — really sum it up : these amendment be not about make the Bill work well or get this process in a well place . they be about create route to challenge , delay and block up . I listen to the point he make , such as on permanence . of course , Parliament be always free to take a different view on legislation present . no Parliament can bind another constitutionally , so a future Parliament could take a view that Rwanda be no long safe , but for now we be quite entitled to take a view as to whether it be . particularly with the treaty obligation and the work be do , we can say that Rwanda be safe for a refugee to be transfer to . the core of the Bill be about work with another country that be an expert in resettlement , and be able to provide for people with a genuine safety need or who be seek safety . it be not about allow the continuation of the idea that if someone pay a trafficker , they can choose where that safety need be meet — that is , here in the United Kingdom . lord amendment 6 allow a range of challenge to the idea that Rwanda be not safe . again , I look at the fact that Rwanda be work with the UNHCR on refugee resettlement . if it be inherently dangerous to take someone to Rwanda or there be a massive danger of refoulement on to a country where they would face persecution , that system could not exist . it be perfectly reasonable that we can come to our own agreement with Rwanda that will be effective and respected , and that we can rely on in define the country as safe . I sadly do not have time to go into all the element touch on in the debate , such as the issue we have with our age assessment system , but it be similarly perfectly reasonable to say that with new process come in , we can take a view . a lot of challenge be raise up not because they will ultimately succeed but because they delay removal . I be go to disagree a little bit with what the right hon . member for East Antrim and other say about amendment 8 . first , it say " refer to all individual " . in a strict interpretation of that , we would list everyone ' s name and address , which would clearly not be appropriate at all , neither would it be appropriate to list the timetable for the removal of individual from this country . that would involve go into a publication of datum that the Government would not normally go into , for fairly obvious reason . the idea that we will not get report and constant commentary on how the process be go without amend the Bill do not stand up . like my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , I work on Op Pitting , and I see the work we do to get people out of Afghanistan . yes , we do need to look at how we can unblock some of the ARAP process , but a lot of that be to do with find place to settle here in the UK . it be one of the big issue with many of our resettlement scheme . one of the great success of the ukrainian scheme be people come forward , but with the afghan one we be reliant in many case on local council to offer space , which — unsurprisingly , give the well - know housing pressure — not many rush to do . there be a debate to be have there , but it be not resolve by amend this Bill and provide another route to challenge or make a claim , when there be a likelihood that that route will be use by those who perhaps never have anything to do with our force but see it as a way to not be transfer to Rwanda . I do find interesting some of the counterintuitive argument we have hear from the Opposition Benches that this be all a bit of a gimmick and be not go to work . if that be the case , why waste time amend the Bill ? why not let it go through , let the Government get their legislation and then spend the rest of the year say , " look , it didn ' t work " ? we know what the real fear be : it be that if the Bill go through , this plan will work . the Bill can be perfectly credible and go forward . some of the objection we have hear sit with I and go against the fact that the UNHCR itself be take people to Rwanda in very large number , as have already be mention . without the Bill , and without it be an effective Bill — that is , a Bill without these amendment — what be the plan b ? what be on offer to try to break this fundamental part of the people smuggler ' business model ? we be tell about crack down on gang , but my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) rightly point out that there have be a lot of prosecution , arrest and conviction already , and he ask how many more the opposition be propose . there be no real answer . the answer be that their opposition be just a soundbite , nothing else . it be like the claim that all we need to do be walk in the door and we will get a great deal out of France . well , good luck with that . I know from my own dealing with authority on the continent that it be not just a case of walk in the door , make a demand and suddenly get everything we want . as be say early , the amendment may be very elegant and well word , but at the end of the day they be nothing but wreck amendment , intend to obfuscate the process , bung it up , delay it , and reopen route to challenge that the Bill be specifically look to shut down . the Bill look to transfer people to a perfectly safe country that be an expert in resettlement , work with other group on resettlement and be perfectly able to work with the United Kingdom . Parliament be perfectly able and right to take the view that it be safe to do so . we have all hear the admonition about speak to the amendment , but it be worth reflect on the absence of any amendment in lieu on the amendment paper . during early stage of the Bill there be star chamber , the five family , proposition to strengthen the Bill and all kind of dark muttering about what might happen if it be not strengthen sufficiently , but the Bill clear this House without any amendment . now consensus appear to have break out on the conservative back Benches that the Bill do not in fact need any further change and should remain unamended — so it do not need strengthen after all . perhaps that be because this be a Bill that nobody really want . all it have do be create problem for the Government and the Prime Minister that do not have to exist in the first place . the Bill create significant new precedent , undermine establish principle and convention , and move the UK away from a framework and structure of international law that have protect our freedom and human right for nearly 80 year since the end of the second world war . it be not really the Safety of Rwanda Bill ; it be the safety of the Prime Minister Bill . it have all be design to try to keep certain element of his Back Benches happy , and on that test it seem to have fail , just as it have fail in practically every other criterion it could be assess against . the evidence of that be before we in the 10 amendment that have be make on a cross - party basis by member of the House of Lords . as we have hear in all the Opposition speech today , many of these be completely reasonable , sensible test and requirement . if the Government be genuinely confident about the effectiveness of their policy and the safety of Rwanda as a place for the deportation of asylum seeker , they should be able to accept the Lords amendment without difficulty . the amendment to clause 1 , propose by Lord Coaker and Lord Hope of Craighead , simply lie out the criterion by which Rwanda should be judge safe , and on the Government ' s own term base on the treaty that they have sign . I agree with the point make by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) about the significance of Lord Hope add his name to the amendment — I declare an interest because , many year ago , he confer an undergraduate degree on I when he be chancellor of the University of Strathclyde . the amendment to clause 4 in some way get to the heart of the debate and the issue at stake in the Bill . the debate be not really about whether Rwanda be safe in general term . as I say on Second Reading , I visit Rwanda , as have a number of member who have speak , in 2018 with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . it be a beautiful country with huge potential . its people have have to live through incredibly difficult circumstance . for wealthy tourist who fly in , go on safari and stay in nice hotel — or those who go on Select Committee or cpa visit — Rwanda be a safe and welcome country . however , citizen who speak up too loudly with question about the regime , who ask why international observer have be unable to report that presidential election have be free or fair , or who belong to the LGBT community in that country , or rwandan citizen live in London under the protection of the Metropolitan police because they be be stalk by their country ' s intelligence service , might not find Rwanda quite as safe and welcoming . the question be not whether Rwanda be generally safe , which be how the FCDO official travel guidance describe the country — it will be interesting whether it will update that guidance on the basis of the Bill . the issue be whether it be safe for asylum seeker and , even then , not for asylum seeker generally as some amorphous mass but every individual asylum seeker who might be send there . everyone ' s personal circumstance be different ; everyone ' s story be unique . as the Refuweegee charity say , " we ' re all fae somewhere . " lord amendment 6 recognise that and provide for consideration and review of individual claim and case . those kind of check and balance ought to be expect in any kind of decision - make system , especially one that make fundamental choice about the life of the individual concern , but minister do not like to individualise the issue . they have lose sight of — or perhaps they have never really care about — the wellbeing of the human being at the centre of this debate . last week the Minister kindly accept an invitation to visit Glasgow — something none of his predecessor have be prepare to do . I hope that when he come , he will meet and listen to some of my constituent who be support by the Maryhill Integration Network , Refuweegee , Glasgow Afghan United and other organisation that work with refugee and asylum seeker to make they welcome in the city . he will see how people who have come here on small boat , on the back of lorry or through other irregular mean have not do so for purely economic reason . they have come flee war , climate change , persecution and many other situation barely imaginable to many of we who live in relative comfort and safety in Scotland and in the UK . all they want be to be safe and to be able to contribute to their new community and society . there be nothing good about the Bill . it should be scrap in its entirety . it be unnecessary , unworkable and unloved by all side of the Conservative party and the House . the Lords amendment provide something in the way of mitigation , and the House should support each of they tonight . I hope that it have the chance to divide on each of they , too . the Government , their Back Benchers and everyone else who support the Bill ought to be make to work for it . if they think walk around the Lobby for two hour be tough , they should try get on a small boat or on the back of a lorry and see how they feel about that . if the Government use their majority to send the amendment back , the Lords ought to think carefully about how their amendment in lieu might achieve similar aim , and not simply cave at the end of the first round of ping - pong . the Bill be not in the Government ' s manifesto or even in the King ' s Speech , so there be no convention , principle or anything else stop the Lords from continue to insist on version of their amendment . we on the SNP Benches be not supporter of an unelected second Chamber , but if member on the Government Benches — and , more pertinently , on the official Opposition ' s Benches — think that an unelected House of Lords be a good idea and have a role to play in the UK constitution , they ought not be prepared to see the Lords simply cave in on this kind of legislation ; Opposition member should ensure that their colleague in the House of Lords continue to hold the Government to account in the way that they think the UK constitution ought to work . in reality , all this be get we far away from the SNP ' s vision of an independent Scotland with an open and welcome asylum and immigration system — and the more that the Government and the official Opposition continue to push that divergence , the close that independent Scotland will come . order . I intend to call the Minister to wind up at no later than 7 . 50 pm . I expect 10 vote , start at 8 pm or before . those who have participate in the debate should make their way to the Chamber now . Mr Shannon , I be not put the clock on you , but I ask you to resume your seat by 7 . 50 pm . it be a real pleasure to speak in this debate , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank right hon . and hon . member for their comment . this be no doubt a contentious issue on which we all have opinion , but ensure safety for all be everyone ' s main priority . my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) set out the position of the Democratic Unionist party . I want to make three point in the next five minute . the first relate to Lords amendment 10 and those who help we in Afghanistan . in February 2022 I meet an afghan national who serve alongside one of my constituent in an Army role . I do not want to go into any more detail about that , other than to say that that man and his four child be under threat in Pakistan . I have do everything in my power as an MP , along with other mp , to try to get he home . we have get he a house and job . the hon . member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) say that all they be get be a place , but we have get he a house and a job in a company in Newtownards . we will get his child integrate into school , because we have do that already with syrian refugee . we take they in , and they be establish and do not want to leave . my first question to the Minister about ensure that we can do that . secondly , I refer back to my early intervention about the Northern Ireland court ruling . a legal decision have be take in Belfast , and the Minister clearly respond that it will be challenge . I wish the Minister well on that challenge , and I hope that the ruling can be overturn . if it be , Northern Ireland will be the same as every other part of the United Kingdom . if not , we be clearly different . I hope the Minister will come back to I on that . thirdly , I say early that I be the chair of the APPG for international freedom of religion or belief , which be an important issue for I and for many mp in this House , and some member of the House of Lords . we have 174 member — mp and peer — which indicate the importance of the issue . ensure that religion be respect be so important to I and other . I be go to speak to some of the Lords amendment , as everyone have do in their own way . clause 2 would require decision maker conclusively to treat Rwanda as a safe country . if that presumption be make , it be crucial that the same presumption apply to how member of certain community will be treat once there . we can have all the freedom of religious belief in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , but if they do not have it in Rwanda , the whole object of the exercise have be defeat . I seek that assurance . lord amendment 6 would far allow decision - maker to determine whether Rwanda can be deem a safe country for certain individual or group of similar person . I be pleased that this protection have be address , because it could protect certain group of people of a particular religion , to ensure their safety . the only concern be that if there be more scope for grant injunction that delay removal , we could see ourselves in a similar position of a long list of delayed Home Office decision that could take month to be conclude . I be pleased that protection be be consider for victim of slavery or human trafficking . give that victim be bring to the UK involuntarily , their circumstance should be assess differently to ensure their safety . under - 18 may not have a parent with they , so special provision must be in place . in the short time that the Minister have , I ask he to ensure that protection be give to they so that they be not take advantage of — that be critical . it be always important to debate these issue thoroughly , as they have be by member on all side of the Chamber , with slightly different opinion . other people ' s life be in our hand , and these issue be paramount . there be no doubt that we have a problem with illegal migration in this country , as my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim say . no one in the Chamber , from whatever party , can ignore that issue , but there be exceptional circumstance for some people , and consideration must be give to they . no matter where they be be deport to , it must be a safe place for those with specific religious belief . they must be protect . if we can protect they and their freedom , human right and religious belief wherever they may be , that will be a step in the right direction for I , as the chair of the APPG for international freedom of religion or belief . more importantly , it will be a step in the right direction for those people who be make the choice to go to another country . may I start by thank every single right hon . and hon . member who have contribute during the course of this debate ? it have be detail , thorough and constructive , and I be grateful to each and every one who have contribute . I shall start in reverse order with the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who be so often leave until the end . it be delightful to see he without a time limit on the clock at least . I will come back to his point on amendment 10 at the end , as a number of hon . member have mention it . on the question of under - 18 , article 3 . 4 of the agreement do not cover unaccompanied child . I know that he will be partially reassure by that . on his important comment on religion and faith , I point he to article 11 and 16 of the constitution of Rwanda . I know that he will look at they , and I hope he will find reassurance there . turn to the penultimate speaker , the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , to whom I always listen carefully , he have renew his invitation and I accept once again . I confirm that I look forward to my visit with he to Glasgow . go back to the beginning of the debate , perhaps one of the most instructive part be the exchange between the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) . it contain the foreshadowing of a comment make time and again by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , who be in his place and who repeatedly make the point that it be incumbent upon anyone who disagree with this policy to come up with their own solution to the problem of how we should deal with people who enter the country with no legitimate , credible case for claim asylum and be grant safe haven but who can not be return to their home country . that point be make powerfully today by my hon . friend the Member for Torbay , but once again , answer come there none . I agree with the open remark of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) and with hopefully more than just the first half of his speech , but certainly the first half of it . he characterise this debate , this Bill and this issue incredibly well and I encourage member to turn to his speech . I agree with his assessment of amendment 2 and 3 . he be right to say that they would transfer authority on to the monitor committee rather than on to Parliament , which be the right place for it to be . he tempt I to delve far into issue that he rightly acknowledge be not strictly part of this debate — at least not today — but I will consider they carefully , as he know . I be grateful to he for his contribution . on the last occasion that the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) and I exchange view on this Bill , I undermine her credential by not disagree with each and every one of her submission . I will start to make amend today and pick she up on two issue . on the emergency transit mechanism , it be a treaty — it be an agreement that have be sign by the African Union , the UNHCR and the Government of Rwanda . it be important . it be support and back by the EU to the tune of € 22 million and have be warmly welcome by the EU ambassador with word that I do not have time to repeat now , but I read they out at the outset of the debate . I agree with the hon . Lady when she say that the amendment be design to undermine the purpose of the Bill . she be very plain and open about that , in stark contrast to those on the Labour Benches . my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Alexander Stafford ) also make that point powerfully , as do the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) . they confirm that these be wreck amendment . if anyone want to put a stop to the Bill , they should support these amendment . my hon . friend the Members for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and for Rother Valley talk about sovereignty of Parliament . my hon . friend the Member for Stone talk about clear and unambiguous language and cite the famous paragraph 144 of the Supreme Court judgment . he also cite Lord Hoffmann . I agree with he when he speak about the strength of our unwritten constitution . can I gently push back on something that the Chair of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , say ? my hon . friend the Members for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) and for Rother Valley tackle the deterrent effect powerfully at the outset . the deterrent effect be there . Albania have already show that : number have drop by over 90 % . can I also gently push back with she on scrutiny and respectfully point out once again that both myself and the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , be in front of her Committee within hour of be appoint ? indeed , so much do my hon . friend enjoy that experience that he be back in front of her Committee again last week . have read the transcript and see the report of it , I know that it be a constructive and instructive exchange between the Committee and the Minister , and rightly so . we have the debate last week and we have have the debate again today : scrutiny , scrutiny , scrutiny — something I very much welcome and that I know my hon . friend the Member for Corby welcome , have appear twice before the Committee in quick succession . the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) speak about her visit to Rwanda . may I gently say that I disagree fundamentally with her assessment ? I suggest that the evidence need to be look at in the round . it be a powerful thing that evidence have be put forward that represent the spectrum of view , but it need to be look at in the round . in relation to Rwanda , I disagree with she because we on this side be confident in the Government of Rwanda ' s commitment to implement this partnership . we be clear that Rwanda be a safe country . there be some instructive and powerful intervention on this from my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Jill Mortimer ) . I be also grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) for her speech , have just be to Rwanda , and for give her powerful assessment of where we be . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who talk about the monitor committee . what she say be absolutely right , and not just because one member of that committee be a former Solicitor General . it be an important institution . paragraph 101 of the policy statement set out more detail on that . my right hon . friend be the author and architect of this and therefore speak with great authority . I be grateful to she for remind the House about this . I also have time to mention the economic partnership , which she mention last Thursday as well . that be something we should not forget , and it be mention on Second Reading . I be very grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) for his intervention . he speak about the essence of democracy : the law be our servant . I hear a " Hear , hear " from another former Solicitor General at the back of the Chamber at that point , and he be right to say so . as my right hon . and learn Friend say , this Bill be the constitutionally appropriate response to the Supreme Court judgment — respectful , listen and respond to the concern contain therein . the monitoring committee be the one thing that I would mention to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) . I would gently point out to he , as my right hon . friend the Member for Witham do , that the right check and balance be in place . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon speak about amendment 2 and 3 , say that they would transfer authority from Parliament to the monitoring committee , and he be right . in response to the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , I only have time to repeat that the Bill apply across the entirety of the United Kingdom , but I be grateful to he for his intervention . on amendment 10 , I repeat that the Government recognise the commitment and the responsibility that come with combat veteran , whether our own or those who have show courage by serve alongside we . we will not let they down . these amendment either seek to undermine the primary purpose of the Bill or be simply unnecessary , as they do not support the purpose of the legislation . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 328 , Noes 250 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 1 disagree to . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2 . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 324 , Noes 253 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 2 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3 . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 324 , Noes 253 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 3 disagree to . clause 2 - safety of the Republic of Rwanda Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 4 . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 321 , Noes 252 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 4 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 5 . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Ruth Edwards Amanda Milling Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 322 , Noes 249 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 5 disagree to . clause 4 - decision base on particular individual circumstance Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 6 . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Kim Leadbeater the House divide : Ayes 324 , Noes 251 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 6 disagree to . after clause 4 - section 57 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 7 . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Kim Leadbeater the House divide : Ayes 320 , Noes 250 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 7 disagree to . order . before we proceed , I be inform that a Member swear at one of the Doorkeepers this evening , who on my instruction lock the door . if that person be identify , the consequence will be very severe . we now come to Lords amendment 8 . after clause 5 - removal to Rwanda under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 8 . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Kim Leadbeater the House divide : Ayes 318 , Noes 255 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 8 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 9 . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Kim Leadbeater the House divide : Ayes 320 , Noes 251 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 9 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 10 . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Kim Leadbeater the House divide : Ayes 312 , Noes 255 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 10 disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 1 to 10 ; that Michael Tomlinson , Scott Mann , Dr Kieran Mullan , Anna Firth , Stephen Kinnock , Colleen Fletcher and Alison Thewliss be member of the Committee ; that Michael Tomlinson be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I put on record my apology to the Chair , to member , and to member of staff for an early outburst that I have . let I very quickly explain . I receive a message that cause I some consternation and surprise , to which I make an outburst in general at no one specifically . if I could do it again , I probably would have say something like , " my giddy aunt ! " rather than what do come out of my mouth , and for that I apologise . to clear the air , I put on record the fact that it be direct at no one in particular . I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s candour in identify himself and the fullness of his apology , which be accept . business without Debate before I come to motion 4 to 13 on the Order Paper , I should draw the attention of the House to an error under item 11 in the print version — it have be correct online . the version of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 ( Consequential , supplementary and Incidental Provisions ) Regulations 2024 that be before we today and that be consider by the Delegated Legislation Committee be the draft lay on 1 February 2024 , not the draft lay on 10 January 2024 , which have be withdraw and replace . delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft Combined Authorities ( Overview and Scrutiny Committees , access to information and Audit Committees ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 19 February , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Education that the draft Tertiary Education and Research ( Wales ) Act 2022 ( Consequential Amendments ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Pensions that the draft Occupational Pension Schemes ( Funding and Investment Strategy and Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 26 February , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . Electricity Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Electricity Supplier Obligations ( exclude Electricity ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Renewables Obligation ( Amendment ) ( Energy Intensive Industries ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 23 January , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Electricity Capacity ( Supplier Payment etc . ) ( Amendment and exclude Electricity ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Energy - Intensive Industry Electricity Support Payments and Levy Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . company Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 ( Consequential , supplementary and Incidental Provisions ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 1 February , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 ( Financial Penalty ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 19 February , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Sanctions that the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 ( SI , 2024 , no . 218 ) , date 26 February , a copy of which be lay before this House on 28 February , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . Committee of Public Accounts order , that Sir Jeremy Quin be discharge from the Committee of Public Accounts and Matt Warman be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent , who be shocked and upset by the infected blood scandal . they recognise that justice delay be justice deny . for that reason , the petitioner request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Lancaster and Fleetwood Declares that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain etc . ] [ p002927 ] Cadet Expansion Programme Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) it be a huge privilege to lead tonight ' s Adjournment debate on the cadet expansion programme , and I be grateful to the Minister for respond to it . almost exactly 40 year ago , when I be a young Army cadet in Guildford , the combined cadet force at my school deploy to Okehampton for its Easter camp . during that week , cadet participate in a night navigation exercise across the notorious Dartmoor . give the cold weather and awful terrain , that would have be a challenge at any time , but we have barely leave Okehampton when thick fog engulf we , to the point that you could not see your hand in front of your face . sense the danger , the three of we in my group use all the training that we have be give not just to get off the moor , but to complete the exercise together . the young cadet alongside I be Hamish Walker and Graham Atkinson . I will never forget the experience . anyone who be familiar with military service will know that heighten sense of vigilance and excitement when travel cross - country at night . totally confident in what the map and compass be tell we , and meticulously count our pace , we work together to double - check our navigation and agree every decision we make — this be long before sat - nav . we be utterly blind because of the fog , but we trust our instinct , training and the compass needle , and that potent combination of teamwork , resilience , inform judgement , competitive spirit and confidence that one get with military service see we succeed against the odd , even as 13 - year - old kid . this , however , be typical of what cadet still do . whether abseil down dam , building shelter , learn to ski or shoot , escape from a capsize canoe , prepare an ambush or cooking in the field , the skill I acquire as an Army cadet , for five year at school and for a further three year in the university officer training corp , be pivotal to everything I be today . while the cadet movement do not exist to recruit people for a military career , it be so formative for I that it give I the skill to thrive at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst , which I now represent as the local MP , and throughout a 27 - year military career . my response to almost everything that have be ask of I since leave the cadet probably have its foundation in my time with the cadet , so it have make a huge difference to I personally . what of the cadet force themselves ? the Ministry of Defence sponsor five different type of cadet force . the sea cadet corp , the volunteer cadet corps , the Army cadet force and the air training corp be single service in nature , not tie to school , but the fifth , the combined cadet force , offer more tri - service balance and be host in school , with adult volunteer often come from the teaching staff . all these unit be voluntary organisation that offer challenging and enjoyable activity for young people , and prepare they to play an active role in their community while develop life skill . while they do model their tradition and ethos on their parent service , they be not actually part of HM force and do not of course have any formal military role . the sea cadet consist of over 14 , 000 young people and 5 , 000 adult volunteer in 400 unit across town , city and port , undertake activity such as sailing , boat and coastal navigation . the volunteer cadet corp offer something very similar , but be more tightly connected to naval family . it consist of around 460 cadet and 150 volunteer , locate in eight naval basis across southern England and Scotland . the Army cadet force have over 37 , 000 cadet and 9 , 000 adult volunteer , and it celebrate its 150th anniversary in 2010 . the fourth of the non - school unit be the air training corp , which consist of over 44 , 000 cadet and volunteer staff in over 900 squadron across the UK , encourage participant to take an active interest in aviation and the Royal Air Force . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward the debate ; we speak beforehand . the school cadet expansion programme in Northern Ireland have go from success to success , with Kilkeel High School in the constituency neighbour my Strangford constituency become the new cadet force . this week , 139 pupil from school across Northern Ireland enter the cyber - skill challenge competition , which be fantastic . do the hon . Gentleman agree that Northern Ireland be very much set the target for other cadet force across the United Kingdom to try to match up to ? do he also welcome the fact that almost as many Roman Catholics be now join the cadet force in Northern Ireland as Protestants ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention , and I completely agree . what be happen in Northern Ireland be an exemplar for the cadet movement . it be quite something that we have a balance between catholic and protestant child in these unit . this be about cohesion and community , and what be happen over there be commendable . as for the combined cadet force , unit exist in over 260 school across the UK . traditionally , they be the preserve of independent school , with over 200 of they host detachment , but there be now at least 60 unit in state school too . they offer young student a broad range of exciting , adventurous and educational activity that complement the normal school curriculum during the evening , at weekend and during the holiday . like the other cadet unit , they help to develop personal responsibility , leadership , teamwork and self - discipline . in my view , it be no coincidence that many young cadet emerge to be highly successful in their choose career field . in Berkshire , I be proud that we have a strong pedigree with the military presence there . I could again mention the Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst , the headquarters of 77 Brigade at Hermitage , the Household Cavalry Regiment and the 1st Battalion of the Coldstream Guards in Windsor , 7 Rifles in Reading and so much more , but I really want to highlight the Royal County of Berkshire Army cadet force . this currently support over 600 cadet and 120 adult volunteer in 18 detachment , many of which I see on Remembrance Sunday and at special event alongside the lord lieutenant . I give a big shout - out for 7 Platoon in Bracknell , which do so much locally , train and play hard in equal measure , and always look so smart . while we do not , sadly , have a sea cadet unit in my constituency , Bracknell be home to 2211 Squadron of the Air Training Corps . I meet several of the cadet recently , and it never cease to amaze I just how much be on offer . it be even possible for cadet to go fly and set themselves up to gain pilot licence . to anyone watch from Bracknell Forest I say : please do consider join the Army Cadet Force or Air Training Corps locally ; it be a real opportunity . as for the Combined Cadet Force , there be two detachment in my constituency . Wellington College have an establish military presence and a proud history of service . while I have not yet be invite to visit , it be a good one by reputation . at Brakenhale School in Bracknell , I have watch with wonder as a fledgling detachment have evolve under the superb leadership and vision of both Second Lieutenant Bury and Second Lieutenant Gildersleve . get that off the ground from virtually nothing be quite an achievement , and the detachment serve as an exemplar for the cadet expansion programme , with over 100 pupil in Bracknell now be give the opportunity to wear uniform , train with the British Army , get adventure training and learn life skill that they may otherwise not have do . I can not commend Brakenhale School enough for everything that it be do , and I be look forward to the annual inspection later this year . so what of the cadet expansion programme itself ? it be first launch on Armed Forces Day in June 2012 by the then Prime Minister David Cameron , with the aim of deliver 100 new cadet unit in english state - fund school by September 2015 . this target be reach six month early , in March 2015 , and follow that achievement , the Government commit an extra £ 50 million from LIBOR fine to far increase the number of cadet unit in school across the UK , bring the total to 500 by 2020 . phase 3 be now under way , and the Minister be sure to provide a progress report later . the cadet expansion programme be part of the Government ' s aim of promote the military ethos in school ; instill value in young people that will help they to get the most out of their life and contribute to their community ; and foster those essential quality of resilience , independence and teamwork that will assist young people on their choose career path . mirror what have already be achieve in the private sector , state school that have set up cadet unit be offer significant benefit to their young people ; there be also benefit to the school and the local community . headteacher report that they have see significant improvement in attendance and behaviour , attainment , commitment , self - confidence and discipline , and that relationship between staff and student have improve . the sense of pride that some student feel be also palpable , and give that the Government be a champion of aspiration , opportunity , ambition and enterprise , I want to see this programme develop far and fast , so that all pupil , irrespective of their background , can have well access to these superb opportunity . before I close , I want to highlight a number of area where I feel that we can do well . first and foremost , it would be massively positive for all our adult volunteer to be give a financial incentive for their time . not only would that be positive for recruitment and retention , but it would send a clear signal that the Ministry of Defence be take the broad benefit more seriously . our volunteer be the lifeblood of the cadet movement , and it would be remiss of I not to formally thank and pay tribute to everyone who run our detachment for their huge contribution . we should invest more in our cadet infrastructure , repair our old hall , build new one and provide well facility such as range and accommodation . it go without say that high operating cost should be mitigate , that more transport should be make available , that more opportunity should be provide to train alongside our regular force , and that well adventure training and more update equipment should be make available . while it be a considerable outlay for the Ministry of Defence to provide uniform , weapon and personal kit , it should be possible for serviceable ex - military equipment that would otherwise be dispose of to be provide to cadet unit . close tie - up with regular and reserve unit through the affiliation process should help to ensure that great localise support be available for those detachment that need it . lastly , as someone who get so much out of the Combined Cadet Force and Officers ' Training Corps , I be always hugely privileged to visit and inspect local cadet unit in Berkshire , Surrey and Hampshire , particularly when serve as a command officer in Aldershot and at Sandhurst . our cadet be our future , and whether they choose to join his Majesty ' s force or not , their service in uniform will leave a lasting legacy throughout their lifetime , and their personal skill will be call upon , as be mine . I also wish to thank the many organisation that continue to enable the cadet movement , not least : our single - service branch , such as the cadet branch at Army Headquarters Regional Command in Aldershot , which form part of home command ; the national cadet training centre at Frimley Park , which do so much to train our adult volunteer ; and our reserve force and cadet association , or rfca , which support our cadet force so well behind the scene . indeed , today I be wear the distinctive tie of the South East Reserve Forces and Cadet Association , which I have work alongside for many year ; I ask they to please keep up the great work locally . I conclude by pay tribute to the other youth movement across the UK that do so much to promote the essential value that we have commend this evening . they be far too numerous to list , so I hope that I can be forgive for not do so , but we have the police cadet , St John Ambulance cadet , the scout and guide movement , venture scout , youth sport club , young Crusaders , religious club , breakfast and after - school club , environmental group , online network , voluntary organisation and at least 8 , 000 more established group than can easily be find with a quick search online . I be often tell by parent and teacher in my constituency that there be nothing for young people to do locally , that the Government be not do enough , that that be a key reason for antisocial behaviour , and that many be bored . my answer be usually the same — " really ? " — but while there be always more that we can and must do locally and nationally , we should also be proud of what we have , not least in our cadet force . extend such opportunity more broadly across our society be a complete no - brainer for so many reason , and I hope that the Minister will not disappoint we . what a pleasure it be to respond to the contribution of my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) this evening . I hope that we will be able to reflect on a huge success in our country . it be a wonderful thing for our community to have cadet . I have see they in my constituency , and they be an important part of the local fabric , support occasion from Remembrance Sunday to Armed Forces Day and beyond . we be lucky to have they . I pay particular tribute to the volunteer who make that possible . so many of our institution have , I be afraid , suffer as a result of the pandemic , and it have be extremely difficult for they to get go again , yet cadet seem to have bounce back and be flourish , and the reason be that there be people who be prepared to give up their time and shoulder a fair amount of inconvenience to serve their community in that way . we all owe they a great deal . the benefit that our cadet programme offer to young people and society as a whole be well known and well rehearse . I agree wholeheartedly that the MOD - sponsor cadet force provide brilliant opportunity for our young people . they have be catalogue by academic from the University of Northampton , to whom I be grateful for their rigorous appraisal , which give scientific objectivity to what we all understand instinctively to be the case , namely that cadet be a force for good . participation in cadet have be show to build character , self - discipline and self - reliance . it improve teamworking , problem solving , leadership and social skill . it provide a boost for physical and mental health — benefit that I be sure my hon . friend will know about from his time as a cadet , which he describe so well . I have to say that my time be not quite as happy as his . I remember join the air cadet briefly . I be tell I be go to fly aircraft . after about two month , it dawn on I that that be not go to happen ; it would be march up and down for as long as I could put up with it , which be not very long . I have to say that I part company from the cadet much soon than my hon . friend , but there it be . I be sure it benefit I on some level . headteacher of school that have establish cadet unit report that their cadet have improve attendance and academic attainment , as well as behaviour and self - confidence . some headteacher use cadet as a central part of their strategy to reduce exclusion . cadet programme be also a gateway to new skill , new qualification , and even employment . they be also a valuable way of make young people aware of the further opportunity available in defence and defence - relate industry , although , as my hon . friend make clear , cadet force be not mean to be recruit tool . as our military footprint have shrink , however , cadet have assume an even more important role in at least provide some sort of presence in many community where otherwise there would be none . they benefit the whole of society by build link between different community , boost social mobility , and strengthen young people ' s resilience to become involve in antisocial behaviour , criminality and even extremism . in short , join the cadet be a springboard to success , as well as be a powerful engine for social mobility and level up . the cadet expansion programme be a joint Ministry of Defence and Department for Education initiative to expand cadet participation in school . it have be a fantastic success since its launch by the then Prime Minister 12 year ago . by March 2015 , ahead of schedule , the Government reach their target of establish 100 new combine cadet force unit in state secondary school in England . in November 2019 , again ahead of schedule , we reach our further target of establish 500 new cadet unit across the United Kingdom . [ Official Report , 21 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 10mc . ] ( Correction ) fund with £ 50 million from LIBOR fine , the expansion programme benefit many school in less affluent area . to give renew impetus to the programme , the Government have by this time outline a further aspiration to increase the number of cadet in school unit to 60 , 000 by April 2024 . however , cadet unit require a significant amount of personal commitment from school leader and volunteer , and in spite of success , about 50 of the unit establish since 2012 have fail , often as a result of change to a school ' s leadership or priority . that be a pity , but it in no way detract from the leadership and drive of school team that have advance the cadet programme , to whom I pay tribute . as we approach April 2024 , although cadet number in school have increase by 15 % since April 2020 to more than 54 , 000 , it be clear that covid have have an impact on this as on so much of our national life , and that we will not reach our 60 , 000 aspiration within the challenge timeframe that we set . however , it be not only the direct impact of the pandemic that have slow progress . in addition to cadet activity be halt or limit by covid restriction , participation have be affect by the result change in school priority , with many understandably reorientate themselves from extra - curricular activity to prioritise catch up on lose learning . give this context , the fact that we have already achieve 90 % of our ambition to have 60 , 000 cadet in school be a great credit to every individual and school involve in our expansion programme . we have also make progress on a number of other front to provide the great support for school cadet unit that we can . in the last year , we have develop a Combined Cadet Force engagement and communication framework . we have work with the single - service cadet force to improve the delivery model , and have extend funding for regional school cadet expansion officer . accord to a report produce by academic at the University of Northampton , more than 91 % of headteacher survey consider their cadet unit to be a good investment for their school , and a whopping 98 . 9 % report an improvement in the resilience of participant . Most recent estimate have calculate the cost of participation at £ 836 per cadet , and I call that a fantastic value - for - money investment in their future , our future , and the future of our country . however , member do not have to take my word for it : the academic who conduct the study conclude that " school base cadet unit be deliver excellent value for money " — as well they should , give that the estimate of the Institute for Public Policy Research be that the cost of just one school exclusion be £ 392 , 000 . one impressive thing about the cadet force in my constituency be that there be as many young girl there as young boy , whether we be talk about the Army , sea or Air Force cadet . it be encouraging to see that , and I know that the Minister would like that , too . be the Government and the Minister try to promote that ? I absolutely do . as the proud father of five daughter , each of whom have be involve at some level in the cadet , I can certainly endorse the hon . Gentleman ' s remark . I be impressed all the time by the number of young woman engage in the cadet and look to a future in defence . although of course this be not a recruiting exercise , the cadet force be increasingly female in its composition , and that have to be a positive thing . I remain determined to do all I can to ensure that we continue to grow the number of cadet in our school ; as we recover from the pandemic , we must meet our 60 , 000 aspiration as soon as possible , so that school such as Brakenhale School in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell can continue to flourish . the school programme be , of course , complementary to the very successful community cadet force , to which he refer . I pay tribute to the very active unit in my constituency , and to the volunteer who sustain they . these community cadet force be as popular as ever with our young people ; the number mirror the growth in our school programme . the most recent figure show that we have more than 83 , 000 community cadet , which represent a 14 % increase on the previous year . of course , none of this can happen without the selfless and invaluable contribution that adult volunteer make . the good news be that they can indeed receive some remuneration for their effort , depend on the activity that they be engage in . historically , cadet unit have have to put up with some fairly basic accommodation , and my hon . friend touch on that . however , we continue to make considerable effort to improve facility for cadet , not least through the ongoing reserve estate optimisation programme . school cadet unit have be transform the life of our young people for more than 160 year . once the preserve of independent school , 65 % of unit be now in the state sector , which be a reversal of the previous situation , in which 75 % of cadet unit be in independent school . like the rest of our modern cadet force , school cadet unit embody the ethos of the armed force , and be laser - focused on help young people to develop and reach their full potential , in whatever walk of life they choose . Covid have slow our ambition somewhat , but thank to our cadet force 2030 strategy , the Government have plan in place , as well as the commitment , to deliver their continue growth , ensure that our cadet unit , in school and community , will continue to transform the life of more and more of our young people for many year to come . question put and agree to . House adjourn .