Oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — SEND Provision what step she be take to help support SEND child not in full - time education . we be committed to reform the special educational need and disability system . we be also act now through the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , child not in school register and a duty on local authority to provide advice to eligible family . we will help local authority identify and support these child to achieve and thrive . I recently meet a constituent at my surgery whose son have miss out on more than 800 hour of education . that be despite her attempt to find special educational provision for her son in 14 different school across our region . she be now very concerned , because the council have say that he be at risk of criminal exploitation and can not be leave alone . will the Minister meet I to discuss this case and also provide reassurance that this Government will ensure that vulnerable SEND student get the educational provision they deserve ? one of the ministerial team will be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the important issue that he raise . all child be legally entitle to a full - time education , which be important for their educational progress , their wellbeing and their wide development . it be the local authority ' s responsibility to arrange suitable education when it be not already in place , and I encourage my hon . friend to contact his local authority to discuss this matter far . I have meet child who have experience significant trauma , who be not in full - time education and who be support through the adoption and special guardianship support fund . on 1 April , the Government announce that that funding would continue , which be welcome . however , on 14 April , it be announce that funding would be reduce by 40 % , cap the support at £ 3 , 000 per child for the academic year . that reduction will be devastating for family and therapy provider . do the Minister agree that without proper funding enable specialist support , we risk placement breakdown and increase pressure on already stretch mental health service ? this Government be commit to break down barrier to opportunity so that every child can succeed and thrive . the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) who be responsible for this area , have commit in the House to £ 50 million of funding for this programme . she will have hear the question and will respond in due course . I call the shadow Minister . have tell this House in answer to an urgent question from the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) that the adoption and special guardianship support fund would continue , Ministers somehow do not manage to mention that the funding per child would be cut by 40 % . they then slip that out during recess . meanwhile , Ministers will spend £ 90 million on advertising . can they at least agree to publish the impact assessment on cut what be available from this fund ? as I say , this Government be commit to break down barrier to opportunity . we will take no lecture from the Conservatives . they have absolutely no plan for education , other than to reintroduce private school vat reduction . [ interruption . ] what ? when will the Government publish the impact assessment ? we will respond in due course to those issue . SEND Funding what recent assessment her Department have make of the adequacy of local authority funding for SEND . what step she be take to ensure sustainable funding for SEND provision in school . this Labour Government inherit a lose , lose , lose SEND system , in the word of the Tories ' last Education Secretary , but we have invest an additional £ 1 billion in high need budget and £ 740 million to pave the way for pupil with SEND to achieve and thrive in mainstream school . just last week in Derbyshire , I meet family with experience of the SEND system who have be badly fail by the Tory county council . this Labour Government know that the SEND system need far - reach reform to deliver well life chance for all our child . the Secretary of State be well aware that the East Riding of Yorkshire receive the low level of funding for child with SEND , and I hope that the current review give the Government an opportunity to rectify that . on a wide point , parent like I often look ahead to the school holiday with a sense of dread , because the provision for out - of - school activity for child with SEND be so limited and what be available be often expensive . as part of this review , will she look at what more can be do by local authority to provide opportunity for young people with SEND outside term time ? I know that the hon . Gentleman care deeply about this issue , and bring real passion and determination to try to ensure that all child , include those with SEND , be give the support that they require . for the purpose of wide reform , I will look carefully at the funding issue that he have identify and also at the issue of broad support . parent have the right to request wraparound holiday childcare place , and we update the relevant guidance this year . we want to ensure that all child receive the support that they need , and that apply to childcare for SEND child age up to 18 . the last Government leave SEND education throughout the country in crisis . the National Audit Office find that there be no consistent improvement in outcome from 2019 onwards . I see that at first hand when I meet Calder Valley parent of SEND child at Highbury School in Rastrick , where I see committed parent and teacher struggle with a fail system . what will my right hon . friend do to fix the mess that the last Government make of the system ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his passion and interest in this subject . let I also congratulate he on his effort in yesterday ' s London marathon : he be not only a brilliant advocate for child , but a fantastic runner . he be right to say that this Labour Government have inherit a terrible mess when it come to support with child with SEND . we want all child to have the support that they need in order to achieve and thrive , and as part of the wholesale reform that we will deliver , we will listen to parent , child , stakeholder and school to ensure that we get the system right for child and deliver well outcome , and that issue such as those identify by my hon . friend be a thing of the past . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer to my hon . friend the Member for Bridlington and the Wolds ( Charlie Dewhirst ) , but each child with special educational need in the East Riding receive £ 968 , whereas in Camden the figure be £ 3 , 564 . I be sure she agree that a child in Camden do not have four time the need of a child in the East Riding . will she undertake to ensure , as part of the review , that in principle we will have fair funding for child throughout the country with educational need relate to , for instance , dyslexia or autism at the end of that process , as oppose to where we sit now ? the right hon . Gentleman bring real expertise to this issue , and I know that he also care deeply about ensure that we get the system right for child with SEND . our allocation be make on the basis of the funding formula that be already in place . we intend to look carefully at all these matter as part of our wide reform of the SEND system , but , as the right hon . Gentleman will appreciate , they be complex , and it be important for any change to be make in a way that be responsible and focus on well outcome for child . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the crisis in the SEND system be a source of distress for parent and child who have to fight far too hard for support , and for professional work in local authority and school who face an extremely challenging funding situation . do the Secretary of State agree that in this context blame parent and gps for the increase in the number of SEND diagnose , as some Reform party politician have do in recent day , be both inaccurate and insulting , and that solve the SEND crisis require listen to parent and professional rather than denigrate they ? I could not agree more , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend and the other member of her Committee for the important work that they be do through their inquiry on this matter . we look forward to hear more from they in due course . my hon . friend be entirely right : just day before the local election , the comment of the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) will have send shiver down the spine of so many parent throughout the country . his comment be completely irresponsible and totally wrong . this government be focus on well outcome for all child , include those with SEND . apprenticeship Funding what step she be take to ensure that non - levy pay employer receive apprenticeship funding . labour be transform the Tories ' fail apprenticeship levy into a growth and skill levy . the Government offer a range of support to non - levy - pay employer , include assistance with training cost and payment to take on young apprentice . new foundation apprenticeship in construction will unlock opportunity for up to 10 , 000 young people . apprenticeship , participation , achievement and start have already increase under Labour , and we be go far and fast for growth . as the Minister will know , employer in Northern Ireland pay substantially into the apprenticeship levy but have no direct access to it . what step be the Minister take to enable they to receive direct benefit through the levy , so that we too can enjoy the benefit of which she speak in her answer when she be have a dig at the conservative party ? as I be sure the hon . member know , skill be a devolved matter , and funding in the devolved administration remain the responsibility of those government . however , we will continue to engage with they as we deliver the levy - fund growth and skill offer for England . my constituency of Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley , in the Black Country , be a proud manufacturing area and the birthplace of the industrial revolution . will the Minister please tell I what she be do to increase the uptake of manufacturing and engineering apprenticeship across the country and in the west midland ? too many young people have be lock out of access apprenticeship opportunity , and apprenticeship start by young people under 25 fall by almost 40 % between 2015 - 16 and 2023 - 24 under the previous Government . we be develop new foundation apprenticeship to give more young people a foot in the door at the start of their work life . I call the shadow Minister . the British Chambers of Commerce have say that the lack of clarity around the future of the apprenticeship levy be create uncertainty among business , and be " worrying and destabilising " . employer in university be worried about plan to cut high apprenticeship , and the Institute of Chartered Accountants have say that plan to axe level 7 apprenticeship will lead to work leave the UK altogether . will Ministers agree to the proposal from the campaign for learn for a skill immigration worker test to be carry out before any cut be make to level 7 apprenticeship , so that we do not go from simply invest in british worker to just import worker from other country ? we be very excited about what this government be achieve for young people in our apprenticeship scheme . there be , of course , tough choice to take on how funding should be prioritise to generate opportunity for young people so that they can make a good start in fulfil career go forward . the Department have receive a wide range of representation regard level 7 apprenticeship , and we will communicate our decision go forward . we be absolutely committed to make sure that people be on the right apprenticeship course and that we have a wide range of apprenticeship available . school student : Mental Health and wellbee what step her Department be take to support the mental health and wellbeing of school student . this Government be commit to break down barrier to opportunity and help pupil to achieve and thrive in education . we be provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school so that every child and young person have access to early support , to address problem before they escalate . in my constituency I be in touch with a family of a child who have complex need and severe mental health issue , who have not be able to go to school for a whole year . the child ' s deteriorate mental health need be not be meet , because they have not be give a school that fit their child and adolescent mental health service assessment . have the Minister make an assessment of how the Department might well avoid situation such as that , which leave child without the service they need ? we will deliver on our commitment on mental health to make sure that it reach every child . I be very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman to discuss the specific case that he raise . admission to acute medical ward for child and young people with mental health concern increase by 65 % between 2012 and 2022 . give that gain parity of esteem between mental health and physical health be so important , will the Minister update we on the talk with the NHS about ensure that there be mental health provision and support in every school ? I know my hon . friend be a real champion of these issue . we will recruit an additional 8 , 500 new mental health staff to treat child and adult , as well as open new Young Futures hub , which will provide support for child and young people across the country . the Department also provide a range of guidance and resource on promote and support pupil ' mental health and wellbeing , and I thank he for his question . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . addictive algorithm that serve up harmful content be fuel the child ' s mental health crisis , as well as worry behaviour both inside and outside the classroom . with almost two third of child have a social media account by the end of year 7 , will Ministers commit to work with their counterpart in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to support the Liberal Democrats ’ amendment to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill , which would stop tech company trade on our child ' s attention by raise the digital age of datum consent from 13 to 16 , so that they can not process child ' s datum to feed toxic algorithm without parental consent ? protect child from online harm be a cross - government priority , and Ofcom ' s draft code of practice for child safety set out why it be so important that we continue with our effort to protect child . from July , the child online safety regime will be fully in force , and Ofcom will be able to take robust enforcement action against those fail to comply with the child safety duty . I know the DSIT Secretary of State will want to look very closely at any future further proposal . school Costs and Employer ' s National Insurance Contributions what assessment she have make of the potential impact of increase school cost on the adequacy of school funding for 2025 - 26 . what estimate she have make of the potential impact of increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution on the number of teacher employ in school . what estimate she have make of the potential impact of increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution on the number of teacher employ in school . what estimate she have make of the potential impact of increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution on the number of teacher employ in school . the Tories leave a trail of devastation across our school , with building crumble and teacher leave in their drove . through take tough decision at the Budget to fix the foundation , Labour have be able to increase school funding by over £ 3 . 2 billion . as a result , there be a forecast of £ 400 million of headroom in school ' budget nationally . the Tories ' only plan be to cut school budget to restore private school ' tax break . we be get on with the job of deliver for child . many head , teacher and support staff who be worried about school budget have be in touch with I . I recently have a letter , which be send to the Secretary of State , from a therapist in a school , say : " I have recently be inform that I be be make redundant . Most of the school in the trust be make cut in order to stay afloat . staff that be be cut or have hour reduce be teach assistant , social , emotional and mental health staff and other support staff . " how would the Minister answer the question pose by my constituent who be be make redundant , who ask : " why have Labour vote for unfunded pay rise and National Insurance Tax increase if they can not support school with the cost " of these proposal ? the Government be commit to support teacher to stay in the profession and to thrive , which be why we accept the schoolteacher pay review body 2024 - 25 recommendation in full , implement a 5 . 5 % pay award . that mean that teacher and school leader have have a combine increase of 17 % over the last three year . we really need some humility from Conservative Members about where these problem stem from . headteacher be warn that the gap in funding to cover the Chancellor ' s job tax be equivalent to lose more exist teacher than the Government be plan to recruit . I have hear that message loud and clear from headteacher on my recent school visit , and unfunded pay award will just make this bad . why be the Education Secretary not stand up for our school ? this Labour Government have make some tough decision to fix the foundation of our economy and our public service . we make no apology for do what the last Government fail to do while in office . the extra money from national insurance contribution mean we can protect key educational priority . the Conservatives should be honest : what would they cut to pay for our school ? can the Minister solve this equation ? VAT be push more student into the state sector and increase in national insurance be squeeze staff budget , yet the Government say their ambition be to improve school standard and staff retention . how do that add up ? this be just scaremongere from the conservative party , because the Tories have no plan for the future of our education system . they have no plan to deliver high and rise standard . their only education priority be to hand tax break back to private school , which mean cut free breakfast club , cut school - base nursery and cut school building . I have be contact by school in my Old Bexley and Sidcup constituency that be outraged that Labour ' s tax rise be force they to cut resource and staff while the Government demand that teacher do more . one teacher tell I that , as a proud trade unionist , she have always vote Labour , but feel completely betray . she say : " Labour have make the situation in school 10x worse let student and teacher down " . she be right , be she not ? labour have betray teacher , student and school . school funding be increase by over £ 3 . 2 billion compare with 2024 - 25 , mean that core school budget will total over £ 64 . 8 billion this year . the last Government sit on the pay review recommendation , leave it for this Government to clean up . the conservative party ' s record on education be dismal ; school building be crumble and teacher be leave the profession . this Government be focus on return education to the centre of public life . I recently meet student councillor Aadam , Olivia , Adam and Remy at Fixby junior and infant school . they give I a guide tour of the school and highlight how the playground be long overdue for an upgrade , but the school be face increase cost to resurface it . on behalf of the student council , can I ask the Minister what additional funding and support be available so that pupil can access high - quality play area ? we absolutely support child to have the ability to play , and that be really important in school as well . we understand that some school require additional support . we be work closely with the sector to ensure the good outcome for all child , not just some child , as the previous Government focus on . local conservative council candidate in Mansfield say on the doorstep that they want well funding for our school . however , in the pursuit of restore private school ' tax break , which of these measure do the Minister think the Tories would cut first : new teacher , speech and language support , mental health counsellor , career advice or work experience ? rise — Order . I can save the Minister . that question be about opposition policy , which be not her responsibility . I be deeply concerned about the funding of Howden - le - wear primary school in my constituency . after year of real - term cut , it be now make four teaching assistant redundant . I will write to the Minister on that to seek her support , but the elephant in the room be that the pay of the chief executive of the multi - academy trust of which it be a member have increase £ 30 , 000 over the last two year , take it to £ 275 , 000 . that be the equivalent of 12 teaching assistant . which do she think would be well : one ceo or 12 teaching assistant ? executive pay must be justifiable and must reflect the responsibility an individual take on , alongside local retention and recruitment need . we engage with trust on level of executive pay , and I would be more than happy to discuss the matter far with my hon . friend . I be deeply concerned about Prudhoe community high school in my constituency , which be open eight and a half year ago after be build under a Conservative Secretary of State and Conservative Education Department . unfortunately , in February this year , crack be discover in the structure and the student be be teach in Washington , which be quite a significant journey . can I ask the Minister to not only back the student and staff at Prudhoe community high school , but have an urgent investigation into how the school get into this state ? do she agree that , after 100 year in charge , the legacy of the Tories in west Northumberland be crumble ? I absolutely recognise the challenge Prudhoe community high school be face , in particular those due to sit their GCSE and a - level exam . I wish good luck to they and to all young people who over the Easter holiday have be work very hard towards their exam . official have be work closely with the school to ensure they be accommodate in the right way , but my hon . friend raise a really important point about how a school build eight year ago be crumble , and indeed all the school across the country that be crumble , after 14 year of a Tory Government that do not prioritise education . I call the shadow Secretary of State . not only have the Education Secretary introduce a Bill to this place that will destroy standard in english school , but now she have break her promise on national insurance contribution compensation and be leave school in an impossible funding situation . every MP have hear from headteacher who be stress beyond belief at how to manage their funding . can the Secretary of State guarantee that worry headteacher up and down the country will not have to make teacher redundant because of her broken promise : yes or no ? the right hon . Lady have a firm grip on anonymous briefing in the paper than on the detail of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . she be more focused on petty political game in Westminster than on improve the life of child and family up and down the country . the Bill will get qualified teacher in front of classroom . it will teach a cutting - edge curriculum . it will drive down the cost of send child to school . it will provide breakfast club for child who need they . it will stop vulnerable child fall through the crack . it be a single most important piece of child protection legislation in a generation . the Conservatives vote against it . they can snipe from the sideline ; we will get on with deliver change . let we have another marathon runner to ask the next question . SEND Teachers what step she be take to help increase the number of teacher train in the provision of SEND education . improve the quality of teaching be the good way to drive up standard in school , which be why the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill will get expert teacher in front of the classroom , drive high and rise standard . we be improve teacher training so that teacher be equip to properly support pupil with SEND to achieve and thrive , but we know there be more to do . we be pave the way for far - reach reform through our plan for change . I thank the Minister for her reply . two excellent teacher in my constituency — both expert in special educational need provision — set up an organisation call the Mighty Oak Initiative , whose work be focus on help young people with special educational need who be not attend school at the moment , either not fully or at all . its work be exemplary . would the Minister meet Mighty Oak and myself to look at how we can support the organisation , learn from what it do and apply it elsewhere so that young people with special educational need can get the good out of their educational experience , rather than be leave on the sideline ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and congratulate he on be on his foot after run the London marathon . we be absolutely committed to improve attendance rate of all child , but particularly those with SEND , and to address challenge in the school setting to ensure that child have the support to achieve and thrive . I would be happy to engage with he on any good practice in this area that can support we in our endeavour . in Derby , like in so many community across the country , we face a lack of available SEND school placement with appropriately train teacher . in ' 23 - 24 alone , Derby city council spend £ 18 million on placement outside the city . it be wrong that pupil and their family be not get the support that they need in their community . will the Minister outline what step the Government be take to increase the availability of SEND school place in Derby , in the east midland and across the UK ? the Secretary of State have a useful and interesting visit to a school in Derbyshire to see for herself where progress be be make — or , unfortunately , where not enough be be make — to support child with SEND . we know that high - quality teacher training , particularly in SEND , be vital to ensure that every teacher be a teacher of special educational need and disability . we will continue to work to ensure that local authority deliver on their obligation to all the child in their local area , but particularly those with special educational need and disability . there be significant gap in the understanding of autism profile from teacher and school support staff . the evidence show that there will be massive benefit in school attendance and educational performance if that understanding can increase . I urge the Secretary of State and the team to ask the specialist neurodiversity group that they have set up to look specifically at initial teacher training to see whether more autism - focus element can be add . this work be already ongoing . I recognise what the right hon . Gentleman be say — we want to ensure that every teacher get that high - quality training from their initial teacher training to their first year in a school to ensure that they be confident and able to teach child of a whole range of ability . we be determined to have the right number of teacher with those skilled professional qualification so that they be able to thrive in the profession , and , indeed , to support child to thrive , too . Construction Skills Training what step she be take to increase the number of construction skill training opportunity . construction skill be essential to rebuild Britain as part of our plan for change and to deliver 1 . 5 million home . this Labour Government be cut red tape and reform English and math requirement to deliver 10 , 000 more apprenticeship a year and prioritise investment , with £ 625 million in additional spending to boost construction skill and train 60 , 000 additional skilled construction worker this Parliament — that be more foundation apprenticeship , more industry placement and support for further education , as well as 10 new technical excellence college specialise in construction skill across England . our plan for the renewal of central Gateshead be by far the most exciting investment opportunity in north - east England , with £ 1 . 2 billion of inward investment , thousand of new home and public transport infrastructure , mean 15 , 000 construction job over the next few decade . Gateshead college , right at the heart of the development zone , be rapidly increase place on its superb construction course , but much more be need . will the Secretary of State meet I and Gateshead college to discuss super - charge construction skill to deliver our plan for growth ? I have visit Gateshead college to see the fantastic work it do on digital skill , but I know that it have also develop innovative , flexible apprenticeship for career in build design and construction , which I hope can be replicate elsewhere . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend and perhaps to visit Gateshead college to learn more about what it be do on construction . further education college such as Chichester college in my constituency be vital to the delivery of construction apprenticeship and skill training . many college , however , have raise a concern with I that a loophole in the last government ' s Skills and Post - 16 Education Act 2022 , which bring college back into the public sector , mean that they can not go out and get public investment into their college . what be the Minister do to address their concern and ensure that FE college can invest in the facility and course need to train our future construction workforce ? the hon . Lady raise an important point about that reclassification . through the construction announcement we make ahead of the spring statement , we create a capital pot for employer - lead and match - fund project to ensure that we be really work to deliver some of the programme that be need . we be also invest more in further education — again through boost teaching in this area — and make sure that young people have access to industry placement , which we know be crucial in make sure that they succeed , especially in area like construction . SEND Support what step her Department be take to improve support for child with SEND . what step her Department be take to help ensure that SEND child be be adequately assess . colleague across the House will know about the " lose , lose , lose " system — to use the Tories ' own word — that we inherit . we be invest an extra £ 1 billion into high - need budget , £ 740 million into create new place , and have restructure the Department to put SEND at its heart . the system need far - reach reform . we be engage with parent and we have bring expert on board to assist we in this important work . Merton council , in which most of my Wimbledon constituency be situate , tell I that there be a national shortage of SEND specialist — therapist and educational psychologist in particular — which be negatively impact its and other local authority ’ ability to produce education , health and care plan in a timely fashion . this seem to be a particular problem across London , where in more than a decade there have be almost no growth in the number of local authority - employ educational psychologist , despite a large increase in demand . will the Minister update the House on plan to address this issue and meet I to discuss the particular challenge in London ? we know that local authority have be impact by the increase demand for education , health and care plan and workforce capacity issue , so much more efficient and effective service delivery and communication with school and family will be central to make those improvement . we be work with local authority and across the Department to ensure that there be as much effective early identification as possible . I be more than happy to continue engagement with the hon . gentleman on these important issue . I often hear account of constituent wait over two year for education , health and care plan assessment from Surrey county council . when those assessment finally come , they be frequently carry out remotely , with assessor never actually meet the child . headteacher report that these delayed and inaccurate assessment result in inadequate funding , leave school under - resource and simply unable to meet the child ' s need . family in Surrey deserve assessment that be timely , thorough and centre around the child . what reassurance can the Minister offer family in Surrey that the broken system will be fix , and when ? the hon . Lady set out what be unfortunately a common picture for far too many child and family . we know that the system need reform , and we be work at pace to deliver on that . we be work with expert and engage with family and local authority . we be determined to deliver a well outcome for child with special educational need and disability and their family , and we will continue to update on progress as we make it . school support staff , teach assistant and learn support assistant — the unsung hero of our school — often provide that crucial day - to - day support for child with SEND . what step be the Minister take to ensure that we upskill our school support workforce so that they be well place to support those child ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to recognise the role of school support staff in support school in general , and particularly child within the school system with special educational need and disability . we want to encourage more inclusive mainstream school , and we need a really strong and qualified workforce to deliver on that . I recently visit a school that have a fantastic group of teach assistant who be undertake the apprenticeship and specialise in issue such as special educational need , to make sure that they can continue to develop their skill in the workforce . that be a really positive story , and one that I hope many school can take up . my constituent , Martyn Hodgson , have two adopt child . both have suffer extensive trauma in their short life , and the old son be diagnose with autism and learning disability . they rely on the adoption and special guardianship support fund . he say : " this support mean so much to family of look - after and adopt child . as a child ' s social worker and adoptive parent , I have see at first hand the impact this funding can have on their life . " for Martyn and so many other like he in Hartlepool and beyond , please will the Minister urgently reconsider the cut to this fund ? I absolutely take on board the issue that my hon . friend raise . where people take on the responsibility of adoption , that be to be applaud and support as far as possible . the Government be obviously consider all the financial matter in a very difficult context and make some difficult decision , but we will continue to bear in mind the issue that he raise . we want to maximise the number of child who can access the fund and get the vital support that be need . freedom of Speech : university what step she be take to protect freedom of speech at university . it be Labour that enshrine freedom of expression into law . that be why in January I announce plan to fix the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 , make it robust and workable . today I sign the commencement regulation to impose strong free speech duty on high education provider and the Office for Students from 1 August . we be take common - sense decision to fix the foundation of high education and to deliver change for student . the Minister will know that the University of Sussex , one of my local university , have recently be fine over £ 500 , 000 — a record amount — follow a three - and - half - year investigation by the Office for Students into freedom of speech . I know that the OfS be independent , but do the Minister share my concern that it reach this conclusion without ever speak to the university or its current staff and student ? do she recognise the very wide implication of this ruling , and will she meet I and the University to discuss this ? my hon . friend will understand the limitation on what I can say in answer to his question because this be a decision by the Office for Students , which carry out independent regulatory function . I would be happy to arrange for he to meet the relevant Minister , but only once legal matter have conclude . can the Secretary of State confirm that the new freedom of speech provision will ensure that , if any member of a university ' s staff give the same definition of a woman as the Prime Minister do in his most recent iteration of it , they will not be no - platforme or drive out of their job ? in set out the Government ' s position in the statement on Tuesday I be very clear that we accept the Supreme Court judgment , and that be the right basis on which thing ought to be take forward . through the commencement regulation , we have give tough power to the regulator . we have also reform the regulator since July , with a much sharp focus on financial sustainability — something that I know be important to member across the House . I call the shadow Minister , Neil o ' Brien . at the start of January , the Secretary of State say that she need more time to consider the overseas funding transparency measure in our freedom of speech legislation . it be now nearly May . in the meantime , there have be several concern the report in the press about UK university work with chinese institution that be designate as high risk and have tie to their defence and security apparatus . this legislation be pass in 2023 . when will the Secretary of State reach a decision ? this be an important area , and this Government will always make sure that issue of national security come first . measure be already in place to address foreign interference in the high education sector , from vet international student in sensitive area of research to specific requirement around freedom of speech and expression . we continue to keep all these matter under review , and when we be in a position to do so I will of course update the House . Pupil Referral Units what assessment she have make of the adequacy of level of funding for pupil referral unit . my hon . friend be a champion for young people with SEND and their family in his constituency . the Government have invest an extra £ 1 billion into high need budget to help local authority to maintain their pupil referral unit . of course , the system we inherit from the Conservatives be break , but we be pave the way for far - reach reform to restore parent ' confidence and to support every child to achieve and thrive . I recently visit Chaselea alternative provision academy in Cannock and meet headteacher Mr Archer , who tell I that it receive £ 8 , 300 less per pupil than the average for pru due to the unfair funding formula . with year after year of real - term funding cut under the previous Government , Chaselea have to stop all off - site education and halt new admission , which mean long stay for student . will the Minister confirm that this Government will ensure that PRUs have the resource and support they need to do the vital work of help young people return to mainstream education ? I agree that it be important that funding be available to support young people back into mainstream education . Staffordshire county council be be allocate , through the high need funding block , over £ 143 million of its 2025 - 26 dedicated school grant , and will need to consider how good to deploy that funding to achieve this aim . I know that my hon . friend ' s constituent will be well serve by a Labour council deliver on this issue and will want to think about that ahead of this Thursday . my constituent — a child who attend alternative provision — be physically restrain by his passenger assistant on school transport , which cause significant distress to he and his family . the Department for Education have publish guidance on the use of reasonable force in school in England , but it appear that there be a gap when it come to the use of reasonable force on school transport . will the Minister meet my constituent and I to discuss this case with a view to close this loophole with the funding that it require ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point , and it be one that we be look at as a Department . obviously , home - to - school transport be an important aspect of access education , but it need to be safe for all child . I would be more than happy to discuss the issue far with he . high Education Funding what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of high education funding . the Tories be more interested in pick ideological fight than ensure that university be financially sustainable . they leave student and taxpayer to bear the brunt . labour have take tough decision to shore up high education as we pave the way for reform . we will fix the foundation of high education to deliver change for student . over half of UK university , include the University of York , be again consult on academic and staff redundancy . in line with the University and College Union ' s " stop the cut " week of action , do the Minister agree that we need an urgent review into high education funding and visa arrangement for international student and their dependant , and that we need to protect student from poverty , to safeguard our world - class university and , ultimately , drive research , innovation and their economic output ? we be commit to secure the future of our high education sector and we absolutely recognise its excellent economic value , which be crucial to our future economic growth . we welcome international student , who enrich our campus , forge network with domestic student and become global ambassador . we will set out our plan for reform in the summer . over the past few month , Bournemouth University have have to take step to suspend 15 of its course due to financial pressure and rise operational cost . Most be art and humanity course , include English , photography , sociology and politic . what option exist for university to access other source of funding , and what assessment be be do to protect art and humanity course across our high education sector ? I thank the hon . member for her level of concern . high education provider be autonomous and responsible for manage their own budget . if they be at any risk , we would work with the Office for student to ensure that student be protect . the Government reserve the right to intervene to protect the interest of student . the strategic priority grant be also available to support teacher and student in high education in more expensive subject . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . today in place such as Leicester , Birmingham , County Durham , Gloucestershire , Worcestershire and Northumberland , some of the last of our 750 early - adopter school will launch their free breakfast club . we be now provide 180 , 000 pupil with the good start to their school day , boost parent ' work choice and child ' s life chance . evidence show why that matter so much : when school introduce breakfast club , behaviour improve , attendance increase and attainment grow . it also give parent 30 minute of free childcare every day to juggle work and family life . that be why we will cement those freedom and that opportunity through the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , deliver on our plan for change . to follow on from the two previous question , 5 , 000 university job have be cut nationally , and the University and College Union project that 10 , 000 more will be cut by the end of the year . in Bradford , up to 300 further job be at risk . Bradford University ' s nursery service face the chop , and some course be long go in a bid to meet funding shortfall . what step be the Secretary of State take to protect staff and student in place like Bradford , give the grow crisis in high education ? I understand my hon . friend ' s concern . we be focus on put university on a firm footing . as the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , say , we will set out further reform in the summer so that high education deliver for student and the taxpayer . we have to make tough decision to increase tuition fee limit in line with inflation for the next academic year , but I know that my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) recognise , as I do , the enormous economic value of university in town and city right across our country . that be why we have reform the regulator : to put university on a much firm footing for the future . I call the shadow Secretary of State . despite the Education Secretary ' s good attempt to rewrite history , we Conservatives do not need a court to tell we that biological sex be real . she have on her desk the draft guidance for school on gender questioning , and the final Cass report be publish a year ago . if she be serious about protect woman and girl , why have she not publish the guidance ? I be serious about protect the right of woman and girl . that be why I run a woman ' s refuge for child and woman flee domestic abuse , flee male violence , flee some of the most unimaginable abuse that anyone could ever see . I need no lesson on the importance of such provision . the shadow Secretary of State ask a specific question , which I will answer . this be a sensitive area . we be talk about child ' s wellbee — often very vulnerable child who be experience stress . although I recognise the importance of provide clarity and guidance for school leader , we have to get it right . the Conservatives publish draft guidance for consultation only a matter of month before the general election . it be right that we take stock follow the full and final review from Dr Cass , which we accept should be the basis for how we take thing forward . that draft guidance be produce a year and a half ago . the Education Secretary want to talk about her record . well , let I remind she that one of her first act on come into post be to pause implementation of the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 , which would have protect gender - critical voice . she be more concerned about listen to student union activist than to woman . will she apologise to the gender - critical woman who be force to spend eye - watering sum on legal fee to fight for their right because of her action ? from that question , I do not think you would know who have be in government for the past 14 year , Mr Speaker . the Conservatives have ample opportunity to clarify the position . the ruling of the Supreme Court be that Labour ' s Equality Act 2010 be the basis for its judgment confirm that biological sex should be the basis for provision of single - sex service . alongside that , the Court be also clear that everyone in our country deserve to be treat with dignity and respect , and that trans people continue to receive protection in law . the Conservatives publish guidance , in draft form , a matter of month of before the general election . it be right that we take this issue seriously and get it right . we do not need this shameless opportunism ; this be about child ' s wellbee . the exam season be well under way in Scotland , and I think the whole House will join I in wish pupil in Livingston and across Scotland luck over the come week , and in thank teacher for prepare during the academic year . close the attainment gap between the rich and poor pupil in Scotland be the SNP Government ' s " define mission " , but the late statistic show that it be increase year on year , and 1 , 351 pupil be leave scottish school without any qualification at all — order . we have other member to get in as well . I call the Secretary of State . I join my hon . friend in send my good wish to child in Scotland and across the UK as their exam get under way and thank the brilliant staff work hard to support they . he be of course right about the many failure under the hopeless SNP Administration . Scotland deserve a new direction and a well education system and that will only come with Labour . I call Liberal Democrat spokesperson . last year the Secretary of State say : " there can be no goal more important and more urgent than extend opportunity to our most vulnerable child " . — [ Official Report , 24 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 700 . ] action speak louder than word , so will she commit to reverse she 40 % cut to the grant available through the adoption and special guardianship support fund so that vulnerable child be not make to pay the price for the Conservatives ' financial mess ? the hon . Lady will know that we have confirm £ 50 million for ' 25 - 26 . further consideration will be for the spending review . we have make change in order to maximise the number of child who can access the fund . in addition to the funding that be provide there , we be also trialle kinship allowance , invest more in foster care and invest another £ 0 . 5 billion in provide local authority with the support they need to provide preventive service . I agree that it be important that vulnerable child who have be through the adoption system and beyond get the support that they need to thrive . we know that young people be at the sharp end of the mental health crisis , so can the Minister update the House on the progress his Department be make on our manifesto commitment to put specialist mental health support into our school , and tell we how gap in support for neurodivergent pupil — as highlight in the trailblazer programme — will be address ? this government will provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school so that every young person have access to early support , include those who be neurodivergent . nhs - fund mental health support team will continue to roll out across school and be expect to cover at least 50 % of pupil this year . the Secretary of State may be aware of the tragic death of Genevieve Meehan , who die in a nursery in Cheadle . she be just nine month old . despite claim that the nursery be safe , Gigi ' s death be entirely preventable . gigi ' s parent , John and Katie , be now campaign for change in the law around nursery safety . will the Secretary of State meet I , Gigi ' s parent and the Lullaby Trust to talk through this campaign and commit to help to ensure that this tragic story be never repeat ? every incident of harm of a child , include this tragic case , be incredibly distressing . I be committed to do everything possible to reduce level of harm as part of our mission to give every child the good start in life . I would of course welcome a meeting with the hon . Member and Gigi ' s parent . a number of family have contact I to share their concern about the impact of the delay to the adoption and special guardianship support fund and the cut to the service , describe the very real and distressing strain on they . what consideration have the Department give to address their challenge , and what step be be take to ensure that adoptive family receive the timely support they so desperately need ? as my hon . friend will be aware , we be provide £ 50 million through the adoption and special guardianship support fund . we be also fund Adoption England with £ 8 . 8 million to improve adoption service . this include new support for the first 12 to 18 month after placement and well support for family in crisis . adoptive family may also access mainstream family health service , and we be double the investment in these service to over £ 500 million . the pay review body have recommend a 4 % pay rise for school staff . will the Department for Education pay 4 % , and will that really be expect to come from exist school budget ? we will set out our approach to the recommendation in the usual way , but I say to the hon . Gentleman that one of the very first act of this incoming Labour Government be to accept the previous recommendation to fund the 5 . 5 % pay award for teacher that have be sit on the desk of the Conservative Government . sadly , after year of Tory Government , few young people in Southampton Itchen be successfully engage in employment , education or apprenticeship compare with the national average . what specific step will the Secretary of State take to ensure that apprenticeship and university route be equally value and equally accessible to the young people in my constituency ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point . our youth guarantee will provide tailored support to young people , help they to access high - quality education , training and employment . we want young people to be earn and learn , and we be waste no time about that . youth foundation apprenticeship provide more opportunity for young people , and we want to ensure that we expand access to university for disadvantaged student and that all learn be on an equal footing . national per pupil funding criterion be a blunt instrument for fairly fund school in rural area like mine on the Isle of Wight , which be also separate from the UK mainland by sea . will the Minister meet I and representative from the Isle of Wight council to discuss how fair funding for Isle of Wight primary school can be provide so that no more of they close unnecessarily ? I appreciate the concern that the hon . Gentleman raise . I know that the Isle of Wight local authority be work to address the issue of surplus primary place in the good way . I recognise the challenge around funding . it will take some time to look at that , but the system be design not to give every school the same amount of money but to address some of the need that he outline . I be more than happy to continue this discussion , as I appreciate the issue be very important in his constituency . have the Department make an estimate of how many child with SEND be at risk of lose therapeutic support as a result of the recent change to the adoption and special guardianship support fund ? I hear the concern around the adoption and special guardianship support fund . we have have to make some really difficult decision , but we have choose the fair approach to manage tight resource in the face of increase demand for support . we will continue to review the situation . I recently have the opportunity to visit Echelford primary school in my constituency , where I see an extraordinarily different approach to oracy from those I have see in other school . will the school Minister visit to see that for herself ? we be always look for good approach to raise standard , whether in phonic , math or oracy , and to give child the confidence that will set they up for life . I would be keen to hear more detail about the programme that the hon . Gentleman describe . I have recently be inform that teaching assistant employ through agency in Blackpool be be pay under the national living wage and send into school with positive Disclosure and Barring Service check , and that the profit margin of those agency be as high as 35 % to 40 % , with agency make £ 100 a day on candidate . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss those issue that be face Blackpool ? support staff , temporary staff and agency staff can provide important support to school where it be need , but that must be do in a fair way that help to manage school budget and provide the outcome for child that we know a stable teaching force can bring . I would be more than happy to discuss the particular issue that my hon . friend raise with he . Bromley council have the second high rate of education , health and care plan in London , and be in desperate need of extra special school provision . the council be look to bring forward a 200 - space special school but have meet with a lack of innovation at the Education and Skills Funding Agency . will the Minister meet I and local official to discuss how we can break those bureaucratic blocker and deliver this provision ? yes , I would be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . last month , I hold a public meeting in my constituency with over 100 parent , carer and pupil to discuss our concern about the quality of secondary education in my constituency . it be an absolute scandal that over 60 % of young people leave school without a pass — level 4 or high — in math and English GCSE , a trend that have get bad under the conservative party . will the Minister commit to drive up standard in my local school as a priority for this Labour Government ? my hon . friend be a passionate advocate for well outcome for the young people in her constituency , and I commend her approach for engage so widely with parent , who I know share her concern . I be more than happy to give she that commitment . everything we do in the Department be about drive opportunity , and that mean drive up standard in every school , in every part of the country . this week , on a visit to a school in my constituency , I be tell about a boy with SEND who have be temporarily exclude five time . he be extremely dysregulate and vulnerable and have be wait for two year for specialist provision . the school have try to get he to the top of the mental health list but have be tell that it can not . what should I say to his headteacher , who be at the end of her tether ? the hon . Lady and I have discuss some of the challenge in her local area in relation to deliver well outcome for child with special educational need and disability , and she be right to raise this issue of ensure that the health workforce can back up the change need in education setting . we be work closely with colleague across Government to ensure that we take a join - up approach to improve outcome . welsh university , include Bangor University , face very real challenge as a direct result of policy introduce by the last UK Government . will the Minister update we on conversation that her Department be have with the Welsh Government around high education in Wales ? my hon . friend be aware that education be devolve and that the Welsh Government be responsible for education policy in Wales , include those cover university , but I assure she that the Department for Education engage with the devolved Government at ministerial and official level on a range of area cover education and student . what assurance can the Minister provide to concerned adoptive parent in my constituency who benefit from the match funding element of the adoption and special guardianship support fund , and whose funding could be cut from £ 10 , 000 to £ 3 , 000 ? will she consider reintroduce this vital element of the ASGSF ? the adoption and special guardianship support fund still enable those who be eligible to access a significant package of therapeutic support to meet individual need . the fund be important , which be why we have continue to fund it , but it be not the only source of adoption and kinship support , responsibility for which lie with local authority and regional adoption agency . our £ 8 . 8 million of funding to support Adoption England can assist that . this morning , I have the pleasure of visit Milwards primary school , which be one of the many brilliant primary school in my constituency . one of the main issue raise by primary school be school readiness , which be hugely impact by the closure of sure Start . what be this Government do to ensure that young people be ready for school and ready to learn ? I know that my hon . friend be a huge champion for child in his constituency . this child - centre Government want to break down the barrier to opportunity and ensure that every child get the good start in life . that be why we be introduce a number of initiative through our plan for change , include good - quality early education , increase school - base nursery and investing in other initiative that support a child ' s development . final question . what step will be take to ensure that there be therapeutic and counsel opportunity in all primary school across the United Kingdom to ensure the early of intervention for pupil who could struggle in their education ? education be a devolved matter , but I know that the hon . Gentleman be a champion on these issue , and I be very happy to meet with he . we be commit to roll out mental health support team to every school in England . business without Debate Ordered , that Charlie Maynard and Joy Morrissey be discharge from the Committee of Selection and Paul Holmes and Tom Morrison be add . — ( Chris Elmore . ) Headingley Incident before I call the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) to ask his urgent question , I must advise the House that although the matter be not yet sub judice , for the purpose of the rule of this House relate to these matter , member should exercise care in what they say about a live criminal investigation . I urge member to avoid speculate about the guilt or innocence of any person . on the identity of the person who have be arrest and the motive for the attack , member should take care not to say anything in this House that might prejudice a criminal trial . member may ask about the emergency service , the response to the attack , the support for victim ' family and other connected matter , but I urge the utmost caution in avoid any remark that might be prejudicial . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department if she will make a statement on the incident that occur in Headingley on 26 April . first , I thank my hon . friend for secure this urgent question . I begin by say that my thought and prayer be with the victim of this horrific violent incident in Headingley , Leeds , on Saturday . I understand the shock that this incident have cause among the local community in Headingley , and I understand that my hon . friend will want to get rapid answer for the constituent he represent . at the same time — as you have point out , Mr Speaker — this be a live police investigation , and we all have a responsibility not to say anything that would interfere with that investigation or any legal proceeding that may follow from it . for the benefit of the House , though , I will recap what the police have themselves say about the incident and the ongoing investigation . on the afternoon of Saturday 26 April , West Yorkshire police be call to report of a male on Otley Road , Headingley , Leeds , in possession of a crossbow and a firearm . armed police arrive at the scene at 1453 hour , where the suspect be find with a self - inflict injury . he be take to hospital and remain in a life - threaten condition . on arrival , officer also find two member of the public who be injure and be admit to hospital . one victim have now be discharge from hospital ; the other have undergo surgery after suffer life - threaten injury . our thought remain with the victim and their family . Counter Terrorism Policing North East have take the lead for the investigation into this attack , and be now work with West Yorkshire police . as I have say , this be an ongoing investigation and I can not comment on detail of the case , other than to note that we must allow the police time and space to conduct their investigation . have say that , we be very aware of concern about the use of crossbow in violent attack . we share that concern , and last week , the Government table amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill to strengthen age verification control on both the online sale and delivery of crossbow . last year , the previous Government hold a call for evidence on licensing system that could apply to crossbow , to which they do not respond . as part of our wide work to get dangerous and lethal weapon off Britain ' s street , we will shortly publish our response to that consultation , set out how we plan to go far to limit the availability and accessibility of crossbow in this country . Mr Speaker , I be very grateful to you for grant this urgent question after the harrowing attack in Headingley on Saturday . my community be still reel in shock and disbelief at the horrific act of violence that occur in our midst on Saturday afternoon . I begin by express my concern and send my good wish for the recovery of the two woman who be harm in the egregious attack this weekend . I also express my gratitude for the heroic effort of the member of the public and of our local community who intervene . the detail of how they help be still emerge , but I already know that without they , we may have have a far bad tragedy . I also thank all the emergency service and Leeds city council for their swift response , and for ensure that the situation be bring under control and isolate . the fact that this most heinous crime be commit against two woman be not lose on anyone , and I thank West Yorkshire police for commit to increase its presence in the area and work to ensure the safety of woman and girl . the response to this horrific attack be a testament to the Headingley community , Leeds , and the people of West Yorkshire . our community be strong and we will show that we remain united . we will not allow this to divide we . the key suspect be carry a range of lethal weapon when the attack be carry out , and the two victim be both shoot by crossbow , a weapon that have be use in murder before . I know that the Home Office issue a call for evidence on strengthen control on crossbow on public safety ground , which run from 14 February to 9 April last year . will the Minister now publish a response on provide further control on the use , ownership and supply of crossbow after Saturday ' s horrify attack ? we need to see action take on those lethal weapon . police inquiry be ongoing , but we know that this be a critical incident and that the lead force be Counter Terrorism Policing . the fact that an individual be able to plan and carry out such a vile , hideous attack on two woman require we to ask question about how our intelligence gathering operate prior to the attack . can the Minister reassure I , my community and the House that there will be a thorough investigation into what intelligence gathering have be undertake on the suspect , and whether lesson can be learn for the safety and security of the public ? I pay tribute once more to the local community in the area that I be proud to call home , and thank they for their bravery and kindness , as I do to our excellent emergency service in West Yorkshire . I thank my hon . friend for those comment . he be absolutely right to pay tribute to the community , the member of the public who come forward when the attack be happen and the emergency service , who , as ever , run towards danger when many other run in the opposite direction . it be absolutely right that we pay tribute in the way that he have do . I hope that my response to his urgent question offer he some reassurance about the Government ' s approach towards crossbow and what more we want to do . as I say , we will shortly publish our response to the consultation that take place last year . the investigation be under way ; I know that it will be thorough and comprehensive , and that all the issue he raise will be look at . I call the shadow Minister . everybody will have find the report about this incident , which be of great severity , deeply concern . I would like to express my deep sympathy to those who be injure during this horrendous attack . our thought be with they at this time . I also thank the public , the police and the emergency service more broadly for their response to the incident . there be two aspect that I would like to touch on with the Minister . West Yorkshire police have say that counter - terrorism police be involve in respond to the incident . we have hear from the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation about the importance of not allow an information vacuum to form . will the Minister ensure that there be as much transparency as possible in the release of information about this case ? secondly , I be aware that in the aftermath of the incident , although the police be not seek anyone else in connection with it , there will be an increase police presence across Headingley and the broad city of Leeds in the come day and week . give that this horrific attack be on two young woman , I would be grateful if the Minister could outline whether there have be any discussion about what that presence will entail and what measure be be take , in particular to ensure that young woman and girl feel safe in Leeds follow this incident . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for his comment ; he be absolutely right to praise the public of Headingley and the emergency service . the police presence in Headingley and across Leeds be an operational matter for the chief constable , and I know that he will be mindful of the need of the community in make clear what police presence be need . I be mindful of the issue around transparency and the flow of information , but again , this be a live police investigation . the police make decision about what information be disclose at the appropriate time . as I have say — and as you have set out to the House , Mr Speaker — it be important that there be not speculation at this stage , and that we allow the police to do their job and to investigate , look at the evidence and take the appropriate action as and when . I echo my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) in express my deep sympathy to the family of the victim of this horrendous crime . West Yorkshire police be investigate two recent murder in my constituency of Shipley . will my right hon . friend assure I that West Yorkshire police have the necessary resource to investigate not only this most recent incident in Headingley , but serious crime take place in the area more broadly ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s comment . let I reassure she that all police force have additional resource in this new financial year — up to £ 19 . 6 billion be go into policing . we know that there be challenge in policing , but I have every confidence that West Yorkshire police have the resource it need . West Yorkshire have a very effective mayor and deputy mayor , who lead on policing , and they make the case for their police force very well indeed . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . no one should have to live in fear of such horrific violence . the appalling event in Headingley on Saturday have leave a community shock and two woman with really serious injury . my thought and those of all the Liberal Democrats be , of course , with the victim , their family and all those affect by a crime of such awful brutality . this be yet another devastating example of the violence face by woman and girl across the country , which we must all work to end . it be also yet another example of a violent attack in which a crossbow have be use — one of too many in recent year . my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , among other , have urge the Government to review and strengthen crossbow regulation . I note the Government ' s amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill , include new clause 70 , and the Minister ' s response to the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . can the Minister confirm when the Government ' s formal response to the call for evidence will be publish ? I be grateful for the comment from the hon . member who lead on this subject for the Liberal Democrats . we all be committed to ensure that violence against woman and girl be halve over the next decade . the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who be sit with I , be lead on that . it be an important strand of the safe street mission . I be pleased to hear of the support from the Liberal Democrats for our ongoing work on crossbow , particularly through the Crime and Policing Bill . we will bring forward detail of the Government ' s approach , and the response to the consultation , very shortly . I have take a particular interest in this issue , and I have meet family who have be affect by violent crossbow attack . I recently meet Laura Sugden up in Driffield , who lose her partner , Shane Gilmer . just this morning , I meet Joan Whelan , whose partner , Dave Peck , be kill in 2022 by someone use a crossbow . I be aware of the need for action on this issue . I wish the victim of the Headingley attack a full recovery . my thought be with their friend and family and the community . just this morning , I welcome Joan Whelan to Westminster to meet the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire — I thank the Minister for her time , and her sage advice and counsel — follow the tragic loss of Joan ' s beloved partner , Dave Peck . Dave be fatally strike by bolt fire from a crossbow into an open busy pub in Westcliff in my constituency of Southend East and Rochford in 2022 . Dave be affectionately know as West Ham Dave , and be a large - than - life character . Dave and Joan together have 22 grandchild , who no long have their grandad in their life . the crossbow be purchase by a resident with paranoid schizophrenia who have a history of mental health struggle . it be purchase freely , unchecked and unlicensed , on the internet . do the Minister agree that more need to be do to stop crossbow fall into the wrong hand ? will she join I in thank Joan for her bravery in share her story ? I thank my hon . friend for bring Joan to see I today . she be an incredibly brave and impressive person , and we hear directly from she what the loss of Dave mean to she , her family and her 22 grandchild . in the few word that my hon . Friend use , he make the case effectively for further change to the law around crossbow . the Minister mention her meeting with Laura Sugden , and I pay tribute to Laura for her campaigning on the issue . it be more than seven year since Anthony Lawrence brutally murder Laura ' s partner Shane Gilmer . Laura be attack with a crossbow , and be pregnant at the time . I know that a response to the consultation be come , but can the Minister give we more detail about the timetable for that response ? what next step will we likely see ? I also pay tribute to Laura , an incredibly brave woman who face a horrific attack when her neighbour get into the house through the roof space and attack she and her partner . in answer to the hon . Gentleman , I can not give a specific date . I use to really dislike it when I be sit on the Opposition Benches and a Government Minister would say " shortly " or " imminently " , but I can guarantee that I be do my good to ensure that we respond to the consultation from last year as soon as possible . I express my sympathy and those of the people of Central Ayrshire to the victim of this horrific attack , and those affect by it . I note the presence of the Mayor of West Yorkshire in the Gallery . do the Minister support the excellent work that the mayor be lead to keep woman and girl safe in West Yorkshire ? will the Minister commit to work with mayor , and police and crime commissioner , across the country to tackle the rise of misogyny ? I do not want to get into trouble with you , Mr Speaker , but I be very conscious of the excellent work do by the Mayor of West Yorkshire and her deputy , Alison Lowe , on violence against woman and girl , and of their real commitment to make policy that will have a dramatic effect on the woman and girl of West Yorkshire . unhinged individual be roam the street of our town and city with crossbow , knife , saw and other dangerous weapon , and no tinker around with legislation or licensing will stop this madness . be it not about time we have mandatory jail sentence for people who carry such weapon ? we be work as quickly as possible to understand and identify the nature and scale of the grow cohort of predominantly young man and boy who be fixate with violence . we want to ensure that we have a proper approach and multi - agency intervention to manage the risk that they pose . the Prime Minister have already say that if the law need to change in recognition of this new and dangerous threat , we will change it , quickly . I thank the Minister for come forward to respond to the urgent question . let I put on record my deep sympathy for the victim of this terrible incident and their family . member on both side of the House have talk about the victim of crossbow attack , and I find the whole issue very shocking , especially as someone who regularly visit Westcliff - on - Sea . be there any more that we can do as a government to support victim of these terrible attack and their family ? my hon . friend have raise the important issue of how victim of such attack be support . as I say , this morning I talk to Joan about the support that she receive after the horrific attack on Dave Peck , and I have hear about the support and help that Laura Sugden have receive since she be attack with a crossbow ; but I be well aware that there be more to do , and I will talk to my counterpart in the Ministry of Justice about that . do the Minister share my surprise at just how easy it be to get hold of one of these weapon ? a few click will buy someone a Guillotine X + compound crossbow for £ 324 . 91 plus £ 6 . 99 for delivery , or a Jaguar Deluxe for £ 129 . 95 , with free delivery . these thing be as deadly as shotgun , yet we do not license they as such . will the Minister , in the plan that she have herald , consider seriously go down the same route as other european country and ensure that these deadly weapon be properly control ? in just a few sentence , the right hon . Gentleman have make a compelling case for why change be need in this regard . I can not go any far today , but I hear what he say , and I share his concern about the fact that people can go online and , with a few click , buy one of these item . a number of people have mention to I that they have be to university in Leeds , or have kid who live in " Below Clarey " in Harrogate and go to university in Leeds . there be quite a high - density student population in the area . what conversation have the Government have with local authority and other partner to ensure that university student and parent feel support and reassure ? may I also echo the sentiment of member on both side of the House who have thank the emergency service ? the hon . Gentleman have make an important point about reassurance for the public , so that they can feel confident about go out in local community . I know that West Yorkshire police be ensure that through the extra police presence , and my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) will be work with community group and the university . also , my right hon . friend the Home Secretary and the Minister for Security be properly brief about the incident over the weekend . there be engagement across the board , and all the key stakeholder be part of those conversation . I join all the other Members in wish the victim of this horrific crime a speedy recovery . I note that Counter Terrorism Policing have be involve in intelligence - gathering , and that there be concern about online incitement to violence . will the Minister join I in condemn the recent statement by the so - call irish rap band Kneecap , who be report to have tell their audience that they should kill their local MP , and that the only good Tory be a dead tory ? yes , of course I would condemn any such comment . clearly , I can not comment on anything that be post online in relation to the case we be talk about today , but the hon . Gentleman will know that we work in partnership with technology company to ensure that they understand their responsibility to tackle illegal content on their platform , and we have be clear that they need to act quickly to identify and remove such content from their platform once it have be post . more generally , the Online Safety Act 2023 place duty on platform to swiftly identify and remove illegal content , which we expect they to abide by . furthermore , these platform have a moral responsibility to keep their user and the general public safe , and we expect they to take all reasonable step to do so . order . it be very important that this matter be raise , but I be not sure that it fit in here . it might have be well if the hon . Gentleman have raise the issue in the House by make a point of order at the end . I thank the Minister for her answer . our thought be with the victim and , indeed , with the police officer and the emergency service worker , who respond in such a positive way . like other , I believe that such incident highlight the fact that police officer , and particularly police community support officer , need to be on the ground so that they can deal with the use of crossbow , put in place measure to ensure public safety , and send the message that the police be close by . that need to be the case not just in Headingley , but across all of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . the hon . Gentleman make the case for what this Government be do on neighbourhood policing . we be put 13 , 000 police officer and pcso back into local area and community to provide not only a police presence , but public reassurance , which be so important to the people we all represent . child rape Gangs ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Home Secretary to make a statement on the child rape gang scandal . the shadow Home Secretary be away when I update the House on the Government ' s response to the independent national inquiry into child sexual abuse , and on the action that we be take to investigate and tackle child groom gang across the country . as I have say many time , people up and down this country be understandably horrify by the appalling crime commit by despicable grooming gang . child be subject to the most unthinkable sexual violence . frontline service , local authority and elect politician turn away or even blame the child , rather than their rapist . I know this because I speak to victim week in , week out , and I have do so for decade . this Government be determined to get to the truth of both historical and current grooming gang , to ensure that perpetrator be punish and to deliver justice and accountability for victim and survivor . that be why we be press ahead with the key recommendation of the independent inquiry , include the mandatory duty to report . Baroness Casey , who conduct a no - holds - bar review into groom gang ' offend in Rotherham , be currently oversee a national audit of group - base child sexual exploitation and abuse . the audit will identify what further work be need . it be look at the scale , nature and profile of group - base abuse , include the characteristic of offender . it will conclude in the come week , and I have already commit to publish the finding . the Home Secretary and I have always be clear that the first priority in tackle this heinous offending be get perpetrator behind bar , and get justice for the victim and survivor . that be why all police force in England and Wales have be ask to review historical groom gang investigation that be close with no further action , and to pursue new line of inquiry and reopen investigation where appropriate . we be also go far than ever before to support local area to hold independent local inquiry , which can drive action and accountability at a local level . that be what inquiry in Telford , Manchester and Rotherham have deliver effectively , and that be the approach we would like to see roll out elsewhere . in January , we say that we would support five local inquiry . we be move ahead with that commitment , and we have confirm that funding will be make available to Oldham council as part of this work . we be currently work with a range of expert to develop a good practice local inquiry framework , so that local area that conduct inquiry do so in a way that actually deliver justice , accountability and truth , command the support of victim and survivor . our focus be on deliver meaningful , tangible change for victim and survivor . that mean deliver on the key recommendation of Professor Jay ' s national inquiry , get perpetrator behind bar and , most importantly of all , protect child today . the whole nation be shock by the rape gang scandal . thousand of young teenage girl be systematically rape over year by man of predominantly pakistani heritage — girl such as Jane , who be repeatedly gang rape at the age of just 12 . the police find she be abuse by an illegal immigrant , but instead of arrest the illegal immigrant , they arrest she . that be sick . the last Government take action by set up the wide Jay inquiry and the grooming gang taskforce , but the truth be that that be not enough . there be now clear evidence that those in authority cover up these rape because the perpetrator be mainly of pakistani heritage . last week , I meet retire Detective Chief Inspector John Piekos . in Bradford , he witness the abuse of a young girl in a car , but he be then instruct by a chief superintendent to drop the matter in order to avoid antagonise Bradford ' s muslim community . cover up the rape of young girl for that reason be one of the most immoral thing I have ever hear , yet not a single person — not one — have ever be hold to account for these cover - up . that be why we need a national statutory public inquiry that can compel the production of evidence . even last year , authority in Manchester be still cover up , lead the chair of the local Manchester inquiry to resign . five local inquiry , which can not compel the production of evidence , just will not do . fifty town be affect , not five . Bradford , where some of the bad abuse occur , be refuse to co - operate with any inquiry at all . there have never be an inquiry in Bradford , because the council be refuse to participate . the Home Secretary promise on 16 January that Baroness Casey would complete a rapid audit within three month . three month have now pass and we have hear nothing whatsoever . the Government say there would be five local inquiry , but we know nothing about four of they . the man charge with set they up , Tom Crowther , tell the Home Affairs Committee on 1 April that he have be sideline by the Minister over there , and " do not know " what be go on . finally , I recently meet Marlon West , whose daughter be traffic , abuse and rape by mainly asian man , include in Bradford . he say that this Government should be ashamed of themselves , and they should hold a national inquiry . Jane , who be traffic and gang rape at 12 , also want a statutory national inquiry . Labour Mayor Andy Burnham , Harriet Harman and the Labour MP for Rotherham — the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) — all agree . so will the Minister do what they , and Marlon and Jane , be all beg for , and hold a national inquiry so that those who cover up this scandal be at last hold to account ? I thank the shadow Home Secretary . I do not need to read out the thing find in other local inquiry to know , because I speak to the victim . I speak to some of the victim of groom gang this morning , and I will speak to some more tomorrow . I have speak to they from Oxford , from Birmingham , from Rochdale , from Rotherham and from Oldham . I know exactly the issue of the cover - up , as do everybody already , because of the many local inquiry that have tell we this happen and the national inquiry that have tell we there be cover - up . what we must focus on be make sure , as happen in Telford , that there be a local process of accountability that actually change thing on the ground , and that be what I will do . I have be try to change thing on the ground all my life , since the very first time I meet a girl who have be ignore . I will continue to do that , and do what be right for the victim . I genuinely welcome the renew focus on this issue in this Parliament . in the Home Affairs Committee we have hear evidence from Professor Jay about her report , which make a number of recommendation in November 2022 . she then set out her effort in try to get the previous Conservative Government to act on any of those recommendation for a period of over 90 week . she speak about beg two Home Secretaries to take action . she speak about talk to a chief of staff to one of the former Tory Prime Ministers , who ignore she . do the Minister agree with I that rather than word now , action be far more important ? I absolutely agree that action be what be need , which be exactly why the Home Secretary have write to all police force in England and Wales seek to ensure that more arrest be make in these case . the grooming gang taskforce have in the past nine month make 597 arrest , surpass the entire previous year , because we be so heavily focused on ensure that these people end up behind bar . I think Professor Jay be ignore by the previous Government , and have we have mandatory reporting 10 year ago , when the current Home Secretary ask for it , perhaps more people would have be hold accountable . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . no child should ever endure sexual exploitation or abuse . such horrific and unacceptable crime must have no place in our society . victim and survivor of these crime must be at the centre of our thought whenever we discuss these matter . we owe it to they not just to offer word of support , but to deliver justice and bring offender to account . that also mean take firm preventive action to protect future generation from such harm . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , lead by Professor Alexis Jay , publish its recommendation in 2022 . will the Minister please set out a clear timetable for the full implementation of the Jay inquiry ' s recommendation ? do the Minister agree that a duty of candour , via a Hillsborough law , would bring transparency and accountability to any future inquiry ? will the Government commit to a timetable for deliver that ? I thank the hon . Lady , and I agree with she that inquiry be only worth anything if we crack on . that be why , when I come to this House before the recess , I say it would go alongside the publishing of an action plan on the recommendation of the Jay report and Jay ' s work into groom gang . that have all be publish as part of a Government plan , but it be only the beginning . actually , this be go to take year and year . on the duty of candour , it seem appal that we have to ask people to tell the truth , yet here we be . of course , that be what we must be strive for , as the hon . Lady say , on behalf of the victim and survivor . as we have hear , when Alexis Jay come to the Home Affairs Committee , she tell how she have push and push for the implementation of her long and wide - range report , but hear nothing back from the previous Government . I welcome today ' s urgent question , because this issue require an urgency that we do not see from the previous Government . as someone who have work on protect the victim of child trafficking I know we need local response , but there be an element for national co - ordination . before recess , the Minister announce the creation of the child protection authority . can she tell we more about the remit and the role that organisation will have in ensure that , nationwide , we clamp down on this horrific crime ? yes . as be outline in Professor Alexis Jay ' s report , the need for an overreach authority to ensure accountability across the child protection system be make very clear . as we roll out the new authority , we be consult many expert on what exactly it need to look like and ensure that we get the very good possible . I be sick of hear lesson learn in a serious case review about a child rape , a child rape gang or a child death . there need to be genuine accountability and thing need to change . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I agree with the Minister that policy must be victim - centre and that we must put victim at the heart of everything we do . could she provide more information on when we will know about the remain four location ? what will she do to ensure that the council that be reluctant to be part of this work be compel to do so ? we have commit to five , but I expect to go far . when ? I will answer the question of when . the framework for what local authority will be task with will be release later in May , as will Baroness Casey ' s review , which I have commit to publishing . all those thing will be dependent on each other . I can not stand here and say exactly what that will look like , because I do not know what Baroness Casey will say about any particular area and what I might need to focus on . I will go on the basis of fact — something that do not happen very often in this debate , I have to say . I will follow the fact ; wherever they tell I that there be victim who need help , that be where I will go . before be elect to this place , I work for a national social work organisation , and I know my hon . friend the Minister similarly work with victim of crime before enter this place . it be so important that we keep those victim at the forefront of our consideration . in the light of that , how do the Minister envisage the child protection authority work , and how will victim of crime be support by it ? as my hon . friend point out , I have speak to and work with victim of crime for many year . what they want , fundamentally , be for the thing that happen to they not to happen to child today . that be the change they wish to see more than anything — more than they want any sort of justice . ensure that the new authority do that , and that it be not just word on paper , will therefore be absolutely vital and will deliver that fundamental victim ' need . when we consult expert on the child protection authority , we will ensure that organisation such as the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children , which have panel of specialist victim group to assist its work , will be part of that . in February , a brave group of victim and a lead child abuse lawyer write to the Home Secretary warn she that the rape gang scandal across the Bradford district be likely to be one of the most significant of its kind in the UK , and that leader in Bradford be deliberately seek to avoid the commissioning of an in - depth inquiry for fear of unearth a significant problem . the letter , which still sit with the Home Secretary , outline the dreadful deadlock that we be in across the Bradford district , where there be overwhelming victim - lead support for a full inquiry , but a council unwilling to commission one . do the Minister believe that victim and family across Keighley and the wide Bradford district deserve a full rape gang inquiry , and if not , why not ? if she believe they do deserve an inquiry , what power will she use to overrule Bradford council if it continue to ignore victim ' wish ? once again , I praise the hon . gentleman for raise this issue over a number of year ; other have come to it more recently . we have a meeting in our diary , so I will make he an offer : I would very much like to meet the victim he be talk about . I will gladly sit down with they . I want the hon . Gentleman to know that he have my guarantee that , if in the work Baroness Casey be do around problem profiling and police force across the country local authority be find to have problem , I will pursue they . on Friday , in Rochdale , I meet Jayne Ward and her colleague from St Mary ' s sexual assault referral centre in Manchester , which be staff by former police officer , nurse and social worker who be all committed to help victim and survivor particularly in area such as Rochdale which have suffer from groom gang abuse . they tell I that their priority be cut the court backlog which mean that case be have to wait until March 2027 to go to trial , long - term funding commitment to help group such as theirs , and a wide recognition that most sexual abuse and child rape be perpetrate not by stranger , but by family and friend . do the Minister agree that those should be our priority , too ? I agree with every one of the ask of that sexual assault referral centre . I be work closely with the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , to try to do all those thing . unfortunately , we can not mend a very broken system overnight . it be very important for I to say , though , that the case of groom gang that I have come across be horrible — some of the bad I have ever see — yet sometimes we forget how harrowing it be for child who have be rape by their father , their stepfather or people in child ' s institution . there be no hierarchy ; they all deserve our love , care and dedication to take action for they . thousand of young , white , british working - class girl have be rape , torture and abuse by pakistani grooming gang , yet the Minister refuse to support a full national public inquiry . what I want to know be : be she part of the cover - up ? shame ! that do not deserve a response — and I actually quite like the hon . Gentleman . I have spend my entire career help — [ interruption . ] I wonder how many victim of groom gang he have sit and hold hand with in court , and for how many he have go round to their house in the morning to get they out of bed to get they into a courtroom . there be no way that I would be part of any cover - up . I will do everything I can , under a Home Secretary who will do everything she can , to ensure that those who be responsible be hold accountable . I thank the three incredible , formidable woman on the Front Bench — the Minister for Policing and Crime Prevention , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) and the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) — who have not just learn that this be an issue but have be work and campaign on it for their entire life and come to this place to create change . since 2022 , there have be an 88 % increase in online grooming , and 81 % of those groom be young woman and girl . do the Minister think that the social medium company be do enough ? do she think that the police understand the nature of online groom enough to be able to protect young people from it ? my hon . friend raise an important point . we often talk about historic cover - up and failing , but we must also keep our eye on exactly where grooming be go on now and will take place in the future . she point out , completely rightly , that there be an ongoing grooming issue . through the taskforce and work with various security department , I have see great example of quite how focused police enforcement be on that . do I think that social medium company could be do more ? the answer will always be yes . the Minister say in her opening answer that she be determined to get to the truth . she also list people who could be catch up in cover - up such as politician , police and councillor . there be five potential inquiry and up to 50 child groom gang ; how will it work if those council do not have funding ? more importantly , what if the council do not want to take part ? she say that she will do everything she possibly can . she could change the law — with backing from the opposition — so that people be compel to give evidence in such case . will she consider do that ? as I say , I will consider the situation as it unfold . what I would say be with the amount of money that the Government be allocate for local inquiry — [ interruption . ] from a sedentary position , the shadow Home Secretary say , " it ' s not enough , " but it be million more than the zero that the previous Government allocate . when Oldham and Telford write to the previous Government to ask for help , answer come there none . I will follow the lead that be leave for I . Group - base sexual abuse be among the most heinous of crime , and our priority must always be to listen to victim and survivor . I recently attend an event organise by West Yorkshire ' s Mayor Tracy Brabin and the deputy Mayor and police and crime commissioner , Alison Lowe , where I have the opportunity to meet victim and survivor , as well as fantastic organisation such as Rape Crisis Bradford . I commend the Under - Secretary for her brave and tireless work to get justice for victim and survivor and to challenge those who have fail they , and for her commitment to implement the Jay inquiry in full . can she assure I and my constituent that , as well as take action to bring perpetrator to justice , she will support work to prevent such heinous crime from happen again in the future ? absolutely , and I say with the voice of the victim I have work with over the year and have speak to even today that the fundamental that they want be that child who come forward today — to their teacher , their social worker or whoever it be — do not suffer as they do . keep our eye on make sure that people be hold accountable for the past will deliver justice only if we also look at the now . the Minister have outline money for local inquiry . be she able to comment on what resource will be make available for people who might come forward as a result of those local inquiry ? obviously , there be a backlog in provision of mental health support , talk therapy and all sort of resource that people who have be through these horrific experience may require , which be often provide by local authority , health body and charity whose funding be under pressure . will she elaborate on that and how she will make sure that victim be at its heart ? I absolutely agree . I remember work in a Rape Crisis centre when the Jimmy Savile scandal be reveal and it be like be hit by a tsunami — the phone line light up . as I say before Easter in response to the Jay inquiry , make sure that we have robust mental health support for child who be victim be really important . I also announce that the Home Office would double the amount of money it provide for adult historic rape victim , in recognition that we may bring more people forward and therefore need to improve access to support . I thank my hon . friend for all her work and commitment over many , many year . will she confirm that the Government be commit to build trust with victim and survivor of child exploitation and abuse ? my heart go out to they . do my hon . friend agree that the Government ' s focus on tackle violence against woman and girl will turn the tide and shed a light , as sunlight be the good disinfectant ? absolutely . there be systemic problem with how woman and girl be treat , and sometimes cover - up be ignore . I be afraid to say that there be still a cultural sense of woman feel that they will not be believe if they come forward . we have to look fundamentally at all the system across Government , which be what I and my colleague , the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , who be lead on the violence against woman and girl strategy , will do . the Government be block a national inquiry into the rape gang and say instead that we should have five local inquiry , but we know there have be 50 place where these thing have happen . in some of those place , such as Bradford , the council be block a local inquiry . we also know that local authority often do not have the power they need to requisition evidence and summon witness . indeed , this whole story begin when representative of Oldham council write to the Minister after the election ask for the national power that the council need . why do the Minister refuse to meet they ? I appreciate that that be where the whole story begin for the hon . Gentleman , but it be not where the whole story begin . Oldham council have write , I believe , twice before to the previous Government — no , it have not . it have write to the previous Government , as have Telford . so , for I , this story start many year — [ interruption . ] order . to say it be simply untrue be to suggest something about the Minister . we have to get this right — on a point of order , Mr Speaker . it be not correct that Oldham council have write to the last Government . an individual councillor have , but Oldham council have not . that be the whole point . I be sure if there have be a mistake , the Minister will correct that . I will check the record and make sure , but what I be absolutely certain of be the number of time that Telford council write and ask . I be aware that Rotherham , Rochdale , Telford , Oxford , or any of the place that have have an inquiry , be never give a single bean by the previous Government to do that work , and yet here we be and we will do it . community across Heywood and Middleton North , however resilient , still bear the scar of these appalling and cowardly act . I be grateful to the Minister for her continued engagement and resolve in address the cruel legacy of those crime . what step be be take by her Department to learn from the healthcare practitioner , support worker and other who be active at the time of these crime and initial inquiry to ensure that they can provide their insight and expertise to inform the commendable present - day effort to secure justice for the woman and girl ? I commend my hon . friend ' s work , and I know she be come to see I with some of those healthcare worker . Sara Rowbotham — a woman I know well who work in sexual health service — be one of the whistleblower in the Rochdale case . we absolutely need to ensure that , as we make progress , we listen to anybody who interact with child and that people have space to come forward and speak up . the mandatory duty to report will go some way , but change the culture to ensure that people be listen to and hear — in the health setting they know that well than in most — be definitely something that we will learn . despite multiple promise of inquiry from political party across this House , it seem the only operational investigation will be the rape gang inquiry that I have privately launch . it have garner cross - party support , and I implore mp from any political persuasion to align with our cause . will the Minister commit today to engage in a co - operative manner with the investigation and make herself available to answer question from our expert panel ? I delight in the hon . Gentleman ' s interest , and what I would say to every single Member of this House be that I will work with absolutely anybody to make this well . I be more than happy to meet he and talk about any level of co - operation , because if people be genuinely here to try to stop the grooming gang in this country , I be genuinely here to help . I welcome that the Minister have kindly confirm today that the Casey review will be publish in May . give that it will explain the next stage of the process , and while she obviously can not preface the review , could she elaborate on whether she expect the review to include a framework for conduct the local inquiry ? I absolutely do not expect it to do that . Baroness Casey be seek to do an audit of the problem profile around the country , look at exactly where the datum do or do not exist and where there be failing . it be intend to be a rapid audit . the framework for good local inquiry be be work on by a series of expert , include Tom Crowther and Alexis Jay . detail of the fund that local authority can apply to will also be publish by the end of May . I be sure the Minister share my concern that , to date , no one have be convict of cover up these horrendous crime , include sexual abuse and gang rape . what be the plan to ensure that people be hold to account , because it be quite clear , as the Minister say in her early remark , that the cover - up perpetuate the crime , not just historically but potentially continue to this very day ? I totally agree with the hon . Gentleman . I wish to see people who cover this up hold accountable within the law and the framework that exist . if people have concern about thing and would like to bring specific case to I , the police have the power to investigate those thing . have mandatory reporting law exist soon , we might have be in a well situation , but I completely agree that it be appal that no one have be hold to account . I thank my hon . friend for she continued hard work on this issue . I welcome the commitment to introduce mandatory reporting for suspect sexual abuse , which be recommend 11 year ago by the current Prime Minister when he be the outgoing Director of Public Prosecutions , and accept by the then Prime Minister , David Cameron . however , we have to go through four more Tory Prime Ministers and seven more Tory Home Secretaries before this Labour Government could implement it . I assure my hon . friend that she have my full support on this matter , and I urge she to continue her good work . thank you . child sexual exploitation be a vile and despicable crime that cut across all section of our society . it be perpetrate by individual with blacken soul who come from all race , creed , religion and background . all law - abide citizen want justice for the victim of those horrific act . do the Minister agree that our focus must be on support the victim of exploitation and stop the perpetrator , but that that must be do in such a way that do not fan the flame of hate towards innocent group of people who , like all law - abide citizen , condemn such act ? of course I agree . I want the perpetrator to be hold accountable . what I can say without any doubt be that , as local inquiry have tell we , people have cover thing up , whether ask to or not , for seemingly multicultural reason . that can not stand . that say , we will always follow the fact to ensure that we completely and utterly deal with it . I strongly welcome the Home Secretary ' s commission of Baroness Casey to conduct the national audit . far to the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) , can the Minister confirm whether the grow prevalence of online group - base sexual exploitation of child will form part of the report , and will she provide an update on the Home Office response to that grow crime ? Group - base grooming , which include some terrible example of british child be groom from abroad and vice versa , be something that we be acutely aware of . whether it form part of what Baroness Casey find , I will leave to she to say . I will say , however , that it absolutely form part of the strategy of work that the Government have lay out for prevent child sexual abuse . I be concerned that some of the people involve in local authority inquiry could be the very same individual who have cover up these heinous crime for year . why be the Minister so unwilling to seek justice for the victim of these child rape gang through a national statutory inquiry ? I want to be clear that local inquiry must be independent . the chair of Telford inquiry be independent , and Professor Alexis Jay chair the Rotherham inquiry . they be independent inquiry and they be not run by local authority . last week I catch up with SafeStep , a remarkable charity in my constituency that support victim and survivor of child sexual exploitation and abuse . we discuss the many way in which trauma remain with victim and survivor , and how important accountability be for they as they rebuild their life . my constituent who have suffer this appalling abuse need closure and change . I pay tribute to the Minister for her vital and persistent work to that end , include the establishment of the five local inquiry . will she give further example of what area such as mine can do to ensure that the vile perpetrator be bring to justice ? the grooming gang taskforce will work with local police force area . the whole point be that it work operationally with local police force to ensure good practice . that have lead to 1 , 100 more arrest for group - base child sexual abuse since the taskforce be set up . there be a huge amount of resource in that centre . I encourage local area and local police force always to be work with the taskforce . surely there be something fundamentally flawed with the process of local inquiry if the option of hold the inquiry rest with the default authority . be there not equally something out of kilter with the Government ' s approach to public inquiry when at this moment they be about to spend up to ten of million of pound on a public inquiry to meet the political demand of the Finucane family while deny a national inquiry to this national scandal of child rape gang ? I will not answer the second point , which I think stray slightly from this urgent question , but what I will say be that I wonder if the hon . and learn Gentleman have read the 200 - page document of the national inquiry into group - base child sexual abuse that already exist and have statutory power . if he or anyone in the House have not read it , I encourage they to do that . I thank my hon . friend for her response . as have often be say in this Chamber , child sexual abuse happen across all sector of society , to girl and to boy , and there be no hierarchy of victim . as the Minister have already say , every single one of those young people come into contact on a daily basis with professional who have the power to change their life for the well . what work be be do in advance of the mandatory reporting to work with the professional body who register those professional to ensure that this can happen ? I thank my hon . friend for mention boy and give I the opportunity to say the following . I make a promise to one of the Oldham victim when I meet she that I would always say that groom gang could happen to boy and girl , because it be her son who have lose his life , so I thank my hon . friend for allow I to do that . there will be a delay in the preparation and roll out of mandatory reporting exactly because we must make sure the guidance and the regulation that sit behind it and the training that will have to be put in place be right . we need that not so much for social worker and other who already have that sort of training , but there will also be sport coach and volunteer , because huge number of institution work with child , and get this right be more important than rush ahead with it . my constituent be horrify by the Government ' s failure to order a national inquiry into the child rape gang scandal . do the Minister share the concern raise by Sir Trevor Phillips that the decision make by the Government appear to be obviously political and design to avoid offend muslim voter of pakistani origin ? I do not agree with that . politically , the easy thing for I to have do in this situation would have be to capitulate , but I do not think it be the right thing to do . I genuinely believe that from my year of work and speak to the victim and work in Telford with those victim about what change afterwards . I would not do it — I would not stand here if I do not believe it . and as for the idea that I be try to protect something of myself , this process have , I have to say , not be protect of I and , frankly , that be an absolutely disgraceful thing to say . this be clearly a deeply distressing topic that affect the whole House , and I fully accept that the Minister be affect as much as anyone . that be say , it be not clear to I why we would not do absolutely everything within our power to get to the bottom of this , and that include a full national inquiry with all the power that come with it . will the Minister please explain to I why we will not have that inquiry , and why she see have one as capitulate ? what we have propose be well because it be about act now in area where it be need . we have already have a national inquiry , which take seven year and write a 200 - page dossier on group - base sexual abuse — [ interruption . ] there be a 200 - page dossier specifically on that , and it take two year just to do that , and it make really good recommendation . I genuinely believe that the good thing for I to do be crack on with they . will the Minister provide assurance from the Dispatch Box as to how the Government will compel council — like Bradford , which have refuse to participate in this inquiry or in a local inquiry — to take part ? it may seem self - evident , but council that be liable for child protection and that be find at fault be probably not go to want to participate in a local inquiry . that be why we be ask for a national inquiry . will the Minister please set out what the Government be go to do to compel those council to give evidence so that justice can be serve for the victim ? I will wait for the review be undertake by Baroness Casey and look at what it tell I , and then I will act on that . I thank the Minister for her honest answer . she have speak a number of time on this issue , and I thank she for her care and consideration of the matter . she will know that I always try to be respectful but my question be one that have to be ask . it remain clear that there be a public perception that the Government be draw a line under action that simply do not deserve to be forget . in order to learn the lesson of these dreadful action , we need a full and open investigation . the Government must pacify the general public . we have an obligation to society , and even more so to the vulnerable . will the Minister confirm the investigation that the public and member of this House believe the scale of these issue warrant ? I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s desire to always be respectful . I shall pay it back in kind and say that there be absolutely no way that the Government wish for the past to be forget or for a line to be draw . that be absolutely the opposite of what I want . I want every single perpetrator round up and lock up ; I want every single victim to feel support ; and I want everybody who cover these action up to be hold accountable for that — [ interruption . ] I can hear chuntering from the shadow Home Secretary , who do not always show respect . there be this idea that people be hold accountable by public inquiry , but that be not the case ; nobody have go to prison follow the Hillsborough inquiry . have anyone go to prison as a result of the infected blood inquiry ? no . hon . member should be careful about what they be promise can be achieve . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to raise a point of order , about which I have give Mr Speaker prior notice . all of we in this House know that Mr Speaker have a deep personal commitment to the safety of member of Parliament and their family . in that context , a video have emerge this weekend of a concert hold in London some month ago , at which an irish republican band , call Kneecap , tell a cheer audience that , " the only good Tory be a dead Tory " . the band then implore the audience to , " kill your local MP " . I be not a lawyer , but to my mind that be incitement to murder . quite rightly , counter - terrorism police be now investigate . this be beyond despicable and the issue affect all party . I say that as I look across the Chamber at the plaque for our fall comrade , Sir David Amess , and at the one behind I for our fall comrade , Jo Cox . they both die serve their constituent . through you , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I ask Mr Speaker three thing ? first , will the Home Secretary come to this House by no later than tomorrow and make a full statement on what the Government understand have happen here and exactly what they intend to do about it to protect all those in public life , not just mps and their family ? secondly , will the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , who I see be in her place — I do notify she of my point of order — give a public explanation , ideally via a statement , of how it come to pass that this band be give some £ 14 , 000 of british taxpayer ' money in a grant ? that be your government ! we do not normally heckle point of order , but , if the right hon . Lady be go to do that , I will say that our party ' s leader , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , refuse the grant . the band appeal , and this Government do not oppose the appeal . those be the fact . will the right hon . Lady please explain to we exactly how that happen and how we can get the money back ? I do not want to make this issue partisan , but she interrupt I . thirdly , I understand that Kneecap be still book to appear at Glastonbury , which , under the circumstance , would be unconscionable . as Mr Speaker be chair a Speaker ' s Conference on MPs ' safety , can we implore he through you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to write to the organiser of Glastonbury festival and say that this House do not think it be appropriate that Kneecap should be allow to appear , at least until the investigation be complete ? I ask this on behalf of all mp and all our family . I hope that that be not unreasonable . I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of some aspect of his point of order . as he know , we do not discuss security matter on the Floor of the House , but I understand that the police be investigate the incident . I have have no indication that Ministers intend to come to the House to make a statement , but the right hon . Gentleman have put his point on the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I seek your advice on how to put on the record my concern and those of my constituent about worrying allegation in the weekend press about the awarding of contract by Martin Dowey , the conservative leader of South Ayrshire council ? that be not a matter for the Chair , but the hon . Member have put his point on the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be significant concern in Whitehill and Bordon in my constituency about change to healthcare provision and meet the need of the rapidly grow local population . I write to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on 28 January about this issue , specifically about the future of the Chase community hospital . I have send follow - up email , but — three month to the day later — I have still receive no response to that letter . the refusal of the Secretary of State to engage with my constituent on this matter be concern . I seek your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , on secure a ministerial response to the proposal . I be grateful to the hon . member for his point of order and for give notice of it . ministerial correspondence be not a matter for the Chair , but all hon . member should be entitle to expect a timely reply when they write to any member of the Government . I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have note the hon . member ' s comment . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . at business question last week , I ask a question relate to jcb ' s hydrogen digger . give that JCB be a sponsor of my constituency job fair , I should have refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests before ask that question . I seek your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how I can correct the record . I thank the hon . member for his point of order , for notice of it and for put his point on the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . far to the point of order make by the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , we in Northern Ireland be particularly concerned about the threat against conservative mp , and indeed against any MP in this House . we be also concerned about the funding of this particular group , Kneecap — whether they get funding from here , back home from some council , or whatever — and about their ability to travel right across the world , such as to the United States of America . will the relevant Minister make a statement on all those issue that concern the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford , and that concern I , the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) and all of we who represent Unionism in Northern Ireland ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point , although it be not a point of order . he have put his comment on the record , and he may want to make a further point to the Table Office . football Governance Bill [ Lords ] second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Stuart Andrew have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . today be a day of celebration for football fan in town , village and city across England . football would be nothing without the fan , and today we put they back at the heart of the game , where they belong . football be genuinely our national game — it be the beat heart of our community , a core part of what it mean to be british , and one of our great export . english football light up the world through the premier league , and it light up life in every community through the magic that club bring , from the big in the world to our small grassroots club . however , while we celebrate the global success of the premier league , there be deep concern at every level of the footballe world about the fragility of the wide foundation of the game , which threaten its global success and the success of the whole game itself . since 1992 , 60 club in the top four division have be plunge into administration , and behind that be the stark reality that fan have live with for too long : that of be just one bad owner away from collapse . in my town of Wigan , we be no stranger to that ; in recent year , we have fight two long , lonely battle to save our club . what I see and learn over those long and difficult month appal I , with rogue owner , asset - strip administrator , and fan who be put last when they should have be first . in Reading , Fleetwood , Derby , Morecambe , Macclesfield , Chester and Bury be fan who have live with a daily drumbeat of anxiety as league fail to come to agreement , owner come and go , and the system set up to protect the fan fail one by one . we promise those fan that we would put an end to that . today , we make good on that promise by bring to this House a historic piece of legislation that have be far too long come and put fan back at the heart of the game , where they belong . I congratulate my hon . friend on bring forward this Bill and on strengthen the previous Government ' s Bill , particularly when it come to financial sustainability . not only be football club the beat heart of our community ; they give a lot back to those community . as a former Hammersmith councillor , she will know that no club be well at do so than Queens Park Rangers , through the QPR in the Community Trust and its chief executive Andy Evans . they be fantastic , and do wonderful work in some of the poor community in the country . I agree with my hon . friend , at least about the Bill — we perhaps differ on what be the good football club in the world . I also commend he on his long support for not just his football club , but his community , in which it play such an important part . before the Secretary of State go any far in her speech , will she take the opportunity to pay tribute to Dame Tracey Crouch , whose work in government lay the foundation for what the Secretary of State be talk about now ? since independence should be at the heart of everything we do , will she also say that it would be a pity if this Bill be mire in another story about Labour cronyism ? I unreservedly pay tribute to Dame Tracey Crouch . without her tenacity and determination , we would not have this Bill before the House in such good condition . we owe she a great deal , as do every football fan in the country . it be a source of pride to I that from the Bill ' s inception — from the moment the fan - lead review begin — it have be a cross - party endeavour . I be grateful for the relationship we have be able to forge across the House to get we here . let I address head - on the question about the chair of the independent football regulator . David Kogan be by far one of the people in football most qualified to take on this role . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) like to chunter , but he might want to listen for one moment , though I know it be not his normal mode of operation . not only be David Kogan negotiate billion of pound - worth of broadcasting right , but he have advise the Premier League , the English Football League , UEFA , the National Football League and the scottish premiership among other . he be also on the list that I inherit from the previous Government , who have headhunte he directly to ask he to apply for the job . not only that , but top of the list be somebody who have donate over £ 50 , 000 to the conservative party , so I will take no lecture from the Conservatives . will the Secretary of State give way ? no , I will not take the intervention , because I think a period of reflection and a bit of humility might be welcome from the Conservatives . they be embarrass themselves . it be about time they listen and reflect on how this issue be perceive by million of fan across the country . we should be ashamed that it have take so long to get to this Bill . it have be 14 year since parliamentarian first call for urgent change . it have be five year since Bury FC collapse , send shockwave through english football . it have be four year since the european super league force politician to end year of violent indifference . it have be three year since the crouch review call time on a system that have let fan down for two long , and it have be two year since the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) introduce the Bill to Parliament , call it a landmark moment for fan . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I congratulate the Secretary of State on bring the Bill to the House . I hope the House will join I in congratulate Bury FC , the Mighty Shakers , for their historic first promotion since the club ' s no - fan - fault eviction from the football league . we love a comeback in Bury , and know all too well of the devastating impact when football club forgo good ownership and standard . the Government be right to deliver on their promise of an independent football regulator ; that promise be a consequence , in no small part , of the trauma we experience . will my right hon . friend support my call for the new regulator ' s home to be in Bury ? my hon . friend be a big fan of a comeback himself , as this House know . I too declare an interest : my stepdad be a lifelong season ticket holder at Gigg Lane . I know that I would be speak for he , be he still alive , in thank my hon . friend for the tireless work he do while the Conservative Government stand by and do absolutely nothing as his club be allow to collapse . my hon . friend work tirelessly with fan in the community , and have be able to throw open the door of Gigg Lane to fan again , so I be grateful to he for that . the time for inaction be over . we have know for so long that for english football to prosper , it must be make sustainable . that be what the Bill do . we promise that , and we be do it . we ask everybody who care about the future of football to back our fan , our game , and the Bill . I welcome Bury FC ' s revival , not least because Rochdale FC can now beat they in the local derby . on Saturday , I be at Spotland to see Rochdale clinch a play - off place for the national league , thank to a 5 - 1 win over Hartlepool FC . many people there know it be a super achievement , precisely because a year ago we be threaten with financial collapse . there be a poignant moment at the game when we all remember the death of Joe Thompson , whom we lose to cancer age just 36 . his work be be carry on by the local cancer charity Team Thompson . that epitomise everything that be great about our game ; it be at the heart of the community , and be give something back , through player like Joe . do my right hon . friend agree that people like Joe be everything that be great about our english game ? do she also agree about the need to ensure that small club see a reverse of the inequity we see in the game nationally ? may I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and add my voice to his in pay tribute to Joe ? all our thought be with his family and the community . that example show exactly why this Bill matter . it also show why , up until today , this have be a genuinely cross - party endeavour , back by member in all part of the House . against that backdrop , may I take this opportunity to say that this amendment be an absolute embarrassment ? with the exception of strong protection for fan , which the Conservatives support , this Bill , which the right hon . member for Daventry be oppose , be the Bill that he introduce . this be the system of light - touch regulation that incentivise football to get its own house in order that only a few week ago he be champion . in fact , not only be it light touch and pro - growth , but we get those measure into the Bill — something that the Conservatives fail to do when they be in government . he should be thank we and welcome the strengthen provision in the Bill . this Bill take a proportionate approach that reject one - size - fit - all , so that those with the broad shoulder bear the great burden . the right hon . Member should know that because he present the Bill to this House , and only a few week ago he be busy endorse it . this be the Bill that every single Conservative Member support at the election in their manifesto . promise make , promise break — we simply can not trust a single word they say . the Secretary of State talk about a light touch and proportionality . the general secretary of UEFA write to she about the potential consequence of her proposal before Christmas . that letter be relevant to the decision we have to make today , so will she publish a copy for the House before we vote this evening ? they just can not stop embarrass themselves . seriously , the hon . Member be the Whip on the Bill Committee . he know full well that UEFA have confirm in write to I , as the Football Association confirm directly to member of both Houses , that the Bill before the House do not breach UEFA statute . I will say to he gently , as I say to Opposition Members — [ interruption ] — the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness might like to learn something — that it be one thing to criticise the Government for something they disagree with ; it be another to criticise they for do exactly the same thing that they do in government . the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) will know that the last government — in which the shadow Secretary of State be the Minister responsible for the Bill — refuse to publish any private correspondence , be it from UEFA or otherwise , because they say , rightly , that it remain confidential and be private . however , we have be happy to disclose to the House that there be no problem with the Bill present as far as UEFA be concern . I mean , honestly — rise — no , the hon . Gentleman be embarrass himself . sit down , have a period of humility , and learn what be in this Bill . we will hear a number of speech today , and we have a number of football fan in the Chamber , represent many football club across many league , so I expect that many of we will not be surprised to hear the chant : " well , it ' s all go quiet over there ! " be the Secretary of State , like I , surprised at the apparent silence from the Opposition Benches , and at Opposition Members ' seem reluctance to put fan at the heart of our game ? even though we be talk about the Conservatives , I be absolutely gobsmacked . we be talk about million of football fan around the country . certainly in recent year , I have never not be of the opinion that Conservative Members do not think about anyone but themselves , but even on that test , I would have think that they would see that it be in the interest of the conservative party to back something that mean so much to million of people in every town , village and city across this country . rise — I will make some progress , but I will bring the hon . member in when I can . let I remind the right hon . member for Daventry what he use to think about the Bill . he use to say that a regulator be " substantial but necessary " ; that not have one would be " catastrophic " ; and that " without fan , football club be nothing . we would all do well to remember that as we work towards reform to secure a bright future for football . " the Conservatives have now work themselves so far towards reform that they be virtually indistinguishable from the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . I can only think that he be write their policy on football . but seriously , how can the right hon . member for Daventry look football fan in Hartlepool , Bolton , Portsmouth , reading , Bury and Luton in the eye and defend this amendment , after make they a promise just two year ago , and again at the general election ? [ interruption . ] I have the full list . he might as well have it , because he be the only person in this room who do not seem to remember what he have say . I be leave wonder whether he do not understand a word of his own Bill , which he introduce to this place just a few year ago and champion at the general election , or whether the sad truth be that the public can not trust a single word that his party say . let I try to help the shadow Minister on what the Bill actually do . first , it introduce a licensing system to require club to have a sensible business plan that they stick to . that will include a clear financial plan that properly assess risk . that be measure and proportionate , and it place requirement on club that reflect their circumstance . let I address the concern that he have just discover that he have . the Bill will take into account factor such as league , club size and financial health . that will ensure that the regulation be light - touch . we have cement the proportionate approach that we inherit from he by add two measure : a financial growth duty , so that the regulator will need to consider the financial growth of english football as part of its secondary duty ; and a specific — [ interruption . ] he can not have it both way . he can not take credit for this legislation and then try to vote it down . honestly , I have see a lot from the Conservatives . I have see people take three different position on two different option in front of they , but what I have not see for a long time be a shadow Minister who have two different position on his own view . it be just absurd . we have also include a regulatory principle in the Bill to clarify that the regulatory regime be light - touch . that will provide clarity and certainty , and prevent any unintended consequence from deter good owner from invest in our club . the Sports Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , and I have work closely with club at every level to produce legislation that be clear for prospective owner than the exist system , and we be confident that this stable environment will drive more investor with a long - term prudent approach into the game . one of the stick point in the Bill , and one of the thing that have change , be the approach to parachute payment . one of the Opposition ' s concern be that the Bill will deter investment . we be talk about literally the good league in the world . People from across the world invest with security because of those payment . if the Government take they away , there be a worry that it will deter investment in other league . that be exactly what the german league , the french league and the spanish league be look for . will she rectify the issue by put a provision about those payment in the Bill ? the hon . Gentleman raise a decent point , and I will address it head - on . we have no plan to abolish parachute payment , and there be no measure in the Bill that allow we to do so . we also do not take a view on parachute payment ; it be for football to determine its view . however , it would be nonsense to exclude parachute payment from the state of the game report , give that this Bill be about the financial sustainability of the whole game . the regulator must be able to take that into account and to use it to inform discussion with club in every league across the footballe world . that be the view that we take , but it be also far close to the spirit , intention and recommendation of Dame Tracey Crouch ' s review of football , which be lead and inform by thousand of fan across the country . it be the right thing to do . rise — I will make some progress , as many member want to speak . it show how important this issue be to this House . some member have raise concern about competition , so let I be crystal clear . football be an economic powerhouse . the Premier League and its club contribute more than £ 4 . 2 billion in tax in 2021 , support more than 90 , 000 job . England lead the world when it come to football , and the English pyramid be base on competition . that be why the regulator will not intervene in competition matter . its scope be tightly define , and I can say to the House with confidence that it will not risk contravene any international statute . member will have hear what I say to the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire about the view of UEFA , and they will have hear what the fa have confirm directly to member of both Houses . in fact , we be so committed to this principle , to protect England ' s ability to compete in international match , that we remove a damaging clause we inherit from the previous Government . it would have require the regulator to " have regard to the foreign and trade policy objective of his Majesty ' s Government " when approve takeover . the system will be well and far more independent as a result . give the enormous amount of money that sit with the Premier League , do the Secretary of State share my feeling that it and the fa in general do not do justice by the family of former footballer who suffer from neurodegenerative condition ? footballer be four or five time more likely to have such condition than the rest of the population , and those organisation be mean to help family with the care cost of such former professional , but they do not do so . will the Secretary of State meet Football Families for Justice so that we can put something in the Bill that will force the wealthy people in football to support those who suffer ? I thank the hon . friend for his advocacy . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , who have do incredible work in this regard . I be due to meet some of the family shortly . I will try to make some progress , because many member want to speak and raise issue about their own club and community . let I turn to the subject of financial distribution . our strong preference be for football to be able to reach its own agreement on broadcast revenue distribution , but regrettably , as the House will know , no agreement have be reach since the last deal be strike in 2019 . that be why we agree with Dame Tracey Crouch that club must have a safeguard in these circumstance , and the Bill propose a backstop power . it be explicitly design to incentivise industry to come to its own agreement , and restore the right of the regulator to consider all element of club finance , include parachute payment . by definition , a backstop be a measure of last resort , and we have strengthen the measure in the Bill to ensure that the regulator will have the power to intervene only as a last resort . we have also make it clear that the regulator will need to publish its " state of the game " report before the backstop can be trigger , so that all party have a clear and common understanding of the problem that should be address before engage in mediation . I recognise that the exact process of how the backstop should work have be a matter of serious and consider debate in the other place , with thoughtful suggestion make by Lord Birt , Lord Pannick and other . we be confident that we have propose an effective mechanism , but we appreciate the constructive and thoughtful debate on this matter . before the Committee stage , we will consider whether there be sensible way in which to improve the process and ensure that we present the good possible option to the House . may I return the Secretary of State to the Conservatives ' position on parachute payment ? I welcome the fact that the Government have not rule out take they into account when the regulator do his work . surely the purpose of the " state of the game " report be to look at the health of the football pyramid as a whole , but before that report be publish , the Opposition want to rule out allow the regulator to take account of parachute payment . as 80 % of the help that the Premier League give the rest of the league be spend on parachute payment , surely that be a nonsense and at least should be consider for the future . I agree very much with what my hon . friend have say . let I deal with the subject of owner ' and director ’ test . football club be the pride of our town and city . new owner bring important investment , but they be also the guardian , the custodian , of club that have stand at the centre of our community and our life for more than 100 year . fan grow up attend match with parent and grandparent ; later , they take their own child and grandchild . these club be hand on from one generation to the next . they be institution that — as the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) once write — help to shape and define we as we help to shape and define they , and they be too important to be use as plaything by people who have no stake or care for the community that own they . that be why the Bill introduce a fitness test for owner and director , a source of wealth test for owner , and a requirement for adequate financial plan and resource , also for owner only . prospective owner and director will have to pass those test before buy or join a club . incumbent will not automatically be test , but the power exist , if there be concern about their suitability , to remove they if they be find unsuitable . this approach reduce the regulatory burden , and be target proportionately where there be a risk of harm . it will bring peace of mind to club , their staff and their fan , who deserve nothing less . I suspect that many in this Chamber will be surprised to hear that when I first support Manchester United , " United will survive " be on the front of the match programme : the club be bankrupt , because the young man who be kill in the Munich air disaster be not insure , and it take a lot of effort to move on . my right hon . friend be talk about director and " right and proper " people . I think I speak for every Manchester United fan when I say that if the Bill do not enable the fan to get rid of the Glazers , who be suck money out of Manchester United to support shopping centre in Florida , it be defective . we have purposefully set a high bar for incumbent , but it be right that the power exist . finally , I turn to the most important people : the fan . I say at the outset that the Bill maintain a tightly define scope focus on financial sustainability and safeguard heritage , and it will continue to take a light - touch , targeted and proportionate approach , but it be a new season and there be a new manager . like all good manager , I could not resist make some well - time substitution to improve our odd of deliver on our manifesto commitment to make this country the good place in the world to be a football fan , and to deliver a Bill that be match fit . too many fan have see their team ' owner change club badge and colour without any fan input , or have see their club sell its stadium and up stick until it be barely recognisable . too many fan have watch as their club have try to join closed - shop breakaway league against their wish , and too many have see their club struggle or even collapse under the weight of mismanagement and poor ownership . rise — nobody know that well than my right hon . friend , to whom I will happily give way . my right hon . friend have be passionate about the beautiful game for many year , and I be delighted that she be ensure the Bill will be pass and make a difference for fan . one huge problem for fan have be their club get trap with an unsuitable , unsustainable and extremely expensive stadium because of going - on at the club . we have that with Oxford United now . do she agree that the Bill will help to stop that kind of situation , and that Oxford United must be allow to move to the Triangle as soon as possible ? I be sure my right hon . friend will continue to fight for Oxford United and all their fan . we have explicitly include provision in the Bill to ensure that there be protection for fan around club relocation and the sale of stadium . I know from my own experience at Wigan Athletic that one of the only reason we still have a club be that the council have a covenant on the land , which prevent the stadium from be sell when we be in administration . I commend my right hon . friend for make a fantastic speech . we should also commend the good owner of football club , such as Frank Rothwell and his family , who have make such a difference to Oldham Athletic . he have not just plough money into the club , but raise million of pound for Alzheimer ' s research . may I also associate myself with the comment from the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) about Football Families for Justice ' s effort to get an independent and comprehensive strategy on dementia for footballer , who be four to five time more likely to suffer from dementia ? I be grateful to my hon . friend not only for put this issue on the record , but for raise it with I privately on a number of occasion — I know how committed she be . may I associate myself with her word about good football club owner ? we firmly believe that this Bill will provide the clarity and certainty that allow good owner to invest without be outbid or have to compete with people who mean our club ill . I , too , have an extremely good owner at Wigan Athletic . we be fortunate to have he , and we know how important such owner be . during covid , non - league club take DCMS sport survival loan , but their repayment now threaten the viability of some . will the Secretary of State assure fan that she will do all she can to assist they ? as my local club , King ' s Lynn Town , be in active discussion with Sport England about their loan , will she or the Sports Minister agree to meet I to discuss that ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that issue , which affect many club around the country . the Department continue to engage regularly with fan and sport govern body that be face difficulty — not just in football , but across the board . we be work constructively to help support they , and I would be delighted to provide he with a further update on the individual case that he mention . we be determined to meet our commitment and promise to fan . we have improve the Bill explicitly to require club to provide effective engagement with their supporter , and to consult fan on change to ticket price and on any proposal to relocate their home ground . will the Secretary of State give way on that point ? if the hon . Gentleman forgive I , I will make some progress . I think over 50 member want to speak in this debate , and I want to give they an opportunity to contribute . we be determined to ensure , through this Bill , that those protection be in place . club will be require to establish that a majority of fan be supportive of change to club emblem and home shirt colour , and obtain fa approval of any change to a club ' s name . for the first time ever , this will set a minimum standard of fan engagement in law . it will introduce financial regulation give the regulator the power to oversee financial plan and step in where it have concern . many club be already deliver with and for their fan , but this should be a right of all fan , not just some . this Labour Government be deliver strong and sensible measure that respect the contribution of work people to this country , and our message be clear : if they value it , we will protect it , by put fan at the heart of the game , where they belong . the Secretary of State have be most generous in give way . it be report that Manchester United , Liverpool and other have advertise post that exclude application by white man . will she say on the Floor of the House today that any such policy be illegal in that it infringe the Equality Act 2010 , and will she give a clear message that any such policy must be reverse ? I be not aware of that — genuinely , this be the first I have hear of it — but I be happy to look into it and come back to the right hon . member . will my right hon . friend give way ? I be go to proceed , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I can see , by your nod your assent , that you would like to do so . real change or lasting change never come from the Government alone ; it take a nation . I thank the fan , the club and the league , include the English Football League , the Premier League and the National League , for their extensive and constructive engagement ; the FA , UEFA and FIFA for their continue support of the Bill ; the Football Supporters ' Association , the Professional Footballers ' Association , kick it out and club across the pyramid for their invaluable perspective and support ; and noble Lords for their close scrutiny . I also thank the civil servant in my Department who have work tirelessly for many year , across two different government of different political persuasion , to get we to this point . Most of all , I thank one woman , without whose passion for football and its fan , relentless drive and determination to make good on this long - hold promise , we would never have reach this moment — Dame Tracey Crouch . this effort have unite club across every league , fan and govern body ; town , village and city across our country ; and , until today , even political party , in our determination to fulfil our promise to fan . for the Conservatives , this — the amendment — be genuinely a shameful moment , pit themselves against fan , club and the national game . however , for football and its fan , this be a new dawn . hard - fight - for and long - await , it will give our national game and our much - love club the most promising future , and put fan back at the heart of the game , where they belong . I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House decline to give a second reading to the Football Governance Bill [ Lords ] , because , notwithstanding the need for financial sustainability in the English football league pyramid , the Regulator propose to be establish by the Bill will damage the independence of english football , particularly give the Government ' s propose choice for the Chair and because the Bill will increase the regulatory burden and cost on all English football club — particularly low league club — lead to increase ticket price for fan and will in turn reduce the international competitiveness of , and increase the risk to , english football . " let I begin by offer my congratulation to Liverpool FC on win the premiership yesterday and to those who have be promote , and I feel I especially need to mention two of my former home — namely , Leeds and Wrexham . I think I speak for all member when I say that football be a defining part of our national identity . with club bring fan and community together week in and week out , football have be a great unifier since its inception . it be a football match that famously broker a momentary truce on the western front on Christmas day in 1914 . since the inaugural FIFA world cup in 1930 , football have bring nation together around one central purpose — the love of a game — in friendly competition . football be a multibillion - pound industry with a truly global footprint , and I know that member across this House want to secure its future growth . the collapse of club such as Bury and Macclesfield , the devastating impact of the pandemic and the fail attempt by some english club to join a breakaway european super league have all highlight that the future of the club we love and of the beautiful game be far from guarantee . for this reason , we introduce the original Football Governance Bill , aim at secure the future of football club for the benefit of both community and fan . this propose legislation , as we have hear , follow the fan - lead review that be brilliantly chair by our former colleague , Dame Tracey Crouch , and extensive consultation with a wide range of stakeholder and expert . I , too , want to pay tribute to Dame Tracey , and to all those who participate in the process and contribute to shape our Bill . however , it be because of the importance of football , both to our national identity and economy , that we have have to take a decision regard our stance on this particular legislation . when circumstance change , so too will our approach — and thing have certainly change . this be not a decision we have take lightly , but after careful consideration of our responsibility to the game , the club at its core and the million of fan who cherish it , we have reach the conclusion that we must vote against Labour ' s version of the Football Governance Bill . the Bill we be consider today be not the same as the one that we originally envisage . it have be fundamentally alter to a point where it threaten to do far more harm than good . the Secretary of State say in one breath that it be same Bill , and in the next breath that she have change it all , which be almost like say that Manchester United and Manchester City be the same . the Government ' s decision to appoint a Labour donor as chair of the independent regulator raise serious concern about political interference in football governance . get down to detail , the right hon . Gentleman praise Dame Tracey Crouch ' s review , which everyone welcome and support . will he now set out the specific measure in the Bill which contradict and differ from what Dame Tracey recommend ? first and foremost , and I will come on to this , be the fact that the regulator be no long independent . my right hon . friend be make the key point . with the Secretary of State ' s choice of chair , it be no long an independent regulator . if a conservative party donor be be present by a Conservative Secretary of State , do my right hon . friend think that the right hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , as shadow Secretary of State , would support that stance ? be it not one rule for she and one rule for everyone else ? I will absolutely come on to that point . when the regulator be be set up and you look for people , you cast the net wide . of course you do . you want to know who be interested and you want the good candidate . but I tell you something : if any donor of any political party have be put forward and recommend to I , I would have say no . that be the difference . the right hon . Lady say yes to a Labour crony . I would have say no . I confess that when prepare and draft our version of the Bill , I go through a whole host of conflict in my mind — what to include , what not to include — but after month and month of consultation with a wide range of stakeholder , from fan and fan group , the fa , the Premier League , the EFL , the National League , UEFA , FIFA and many , many roundtable with mps from across the political divide , the Bill that we present be , I believe , measured and proportionate , tightly scope to ensure the financial stability of football club , the sustainability of the league and fan give a say over their club ' heritage . two thing stand out most to I throughout all my engagement : first , the consistent call for it not to be overburdensome and costly , particularly for low club ; secondly , that it must be independent , like all sport . my right hon . friend will be aware that the new chairman of the Labour football regulator give £ 5 , 000 to the hon . Gentleman who have just chortle from his seat , the hon . member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) , and another £ 70 , 000 to other Labour Members , and will be get a return of £ 130 , 000 per year for a three - day week — half a million pound of personal return on that £ 75 , 000 investment over this Parliament . if the Secretary of State be sit on the Opposition Benches , she would be able to smell the hypocrisy and the stink of corruption . that be why we can not accept this appointment : it do not ensure the independence that this position certainly require . I wholeheartedly agree with my right hon . friend . he be absolutely right . this be not — [ interruption . ] from a sedentary position , Labour Members be say , " you shortlist they . " let I assure this House : I most certainly do not shortlist this gentleman . even if he be present to I , there be no way I would have appoint he , for precisely the reason my right hon . friend have set out . labour ' s expand remit for the IFR significantly increase the regulatory burden on club . make no mistake : it will be the small club — the beat heart of their community — that will be hit the hard . the Government ' s own impact assessment estimate that the cost of compliance could reach a staggering £ 47 . 3 million , and make no mistake : that will push ticket price up . at the FSAs ' 2023 annual general meeting , the shadow Minister say : " despite the phenomenal success of football at home and abroad , we have see too many example of the devastating impact the failure of a beloved club can have on a local community . " my local club in Gateshead be nearly wind up in 2019 . be he really content to maintain the grotesque status quo , which allow too many of we to lose our club , to score political point on this matter ? I say to the hon . Gentleman that his party be actually go to be add cost to those club . I have just mention the £ 47 . 3 million , but with the football regulator ' s remit now considerably expand , operational cost could rise to £ 150 million , which club like his will have to fund through the levy . Baroness Brady , someone with deep knowledge of the football industry as vice - chairman — [ Laughter . ] Labour member mock , but the Sports Minister , the hon . member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , have to retract similar comment , which she do graciously , I have to say . Baroness Brady have raise serious and well - found concern about these cost and the disproportionate impact they will have on club , as all this come against the backdrop of labour ' s wide economic mismanagement , which be already undermine the financial stability of our football club . labour ' s new national insurance job tax will hit club ' finance hard , with the Premier League say it will amount to £ 50 million a year and £ 250 million over the life of this Parliament , compound the pressure of increase regulation . at the same time , football stadium be face high business rate under Labour ' s watch . to give a few example , Wembley stadium be set to pay £ 829 , 000 more , while the Etihad stadium will see a rise of £ 564 , 000 . these be not abstract figure ; these be real cost that will trickle down to fan through high ticket price , reduce investment on or off the pitch , or even club have to close . against this backdrop , we now have very real concern about the impact of these change on small club . indeed , Mark Ives , the former general manager of the National League , highlight the financial strain that increase regulation will place on low league club , call it , quite rightly , " a huge concern . " however , and most egregiously of all , the Government have fatally undermine the IFR ' s independence . the fan - lead review into football governance be unequivocal that a credible regulator must be fully independent , free from political influence , and certainly free from Government interference . it state clearly : " independence mean operation and decision making be independent from the government " . that be a critical element for I personally . that point be make over and over again in almost every discussion I have , and quite right too . this be not a labour - lean businessperson who be generally independent but decide to support labour ; this be someone who be a director of LabourList until just a few week ago . this be someone who be absolutely embed in the labour establishment , who fund Labour Members include the Chancellor , now be give this half - a - million - pound boondoggle for the next four or five year . do my right hon . friend agree that the regulator clearly be not independent and that Labour need to think again ? it feel like my right hon . friend have already read my speech , because those be the point that I want to make . when I have those extensive meeting , that question of independence be absolutely raise time and again by fan who be worried that they do not want party politic or Government interference in the game they love , by club and league , who time and again want reassurance that a regulator would be truly independent , and by UEFA and FIFA in particular , who have strong statute about political and Government interference in football , as indeed most international sport governing body do . I pledge and promise to all of they that independence mean just that . I fully understand the possible consequence if the regulator be see as anything other than independent . that be why independence matter , and why I always hold it dear . there be not only political concern about independence but concern from the EFL about the regulator ' s previous link with the Premier League . do my right hon . friend agree that when try to make a digital decision when , for example , we come to the backstop and choose one side over the other — the EFL or the Premier League — which be in effect what the legislation do , there would be a conflict of interest if the regulator have work for the Premier League ? my hon . friend make really important point . this appointment be really important to the future of the regulator . what have the Labour Government do ? they have announce the appointment of David Kogan , a key labour donor and political insider , to lead the football regulator . it be deeply troubling — [ interruption . ] no , I be sorry , but I feel really strongly on this . let I be clear : Mr Kogan be no impartial figure . he be a long - stand member of Labour ' s inner circle , have donate thousand of pound to the party and have spend five year on the board of LabourList , the party ' s propaganda outlet , resign only this month , as my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) say . this appointment be not about qualification or about merit ; it be about reward a political ally . at the same time , Labour have totally throw out any credible claim that the regulator be independent and free from political interference . football fan deserve well , the british public deserve well , and our national game deserve protection from political meddling . the right hon . Gentleman must have be upset when the previous Government appoint Richard Sharp as chairman of the BBC as he be not only a former donor to the Conservative party , but a member of a think - tank . do he express similar view to his government back then when they make that appointment ? the hon . Gentleman have just highlight the fact that Labour Members go mad about that , but now they be do so because this be one of theirs . medium outlet be now report that even some EFL club be deeply worried about this political appointment . if they be worried , we should be worried and we should listen . member will recall that this be not the first time that alarm bell have be sound about political interference in football governance . well before this deeply questionable appointment , UEFA raise serious concern that England risk exclusion from the european championship due to concern that a government - back football regulator could lead to unacceptable political interference . we understand that in a letter from UEFA , which be still be withhold from member by this Government , the general secretary say : " one particular area of concern stem from one of UEFA ' s fundamental requirement , which be that there should be no government interference in the running of football . we have specific rule that guard against this in order to guarantee the autonomy of sport and fairness of sporting competition ; the ultimate sanction for which would be exclude the federation from UEFA and team from competition . " and that be write before the Government seek to install a Labour crony at the helm of the football regulator . we begin this debate by recognise football for what it truly be : not just a sport but a pillar of our national identity ; something that unite community , carry our share history and inspire future generation . it be because we care so deeply about this game and everything it represent that we can not , in good conscience , support a Bill that risk compromise its very foundation and its independence . the shadow Secretary of State say that he care deeply about football and the community that it unite . my patch be just down the road from Reading , where we have see truly horrific scene as a bad owner have rip the heart out of the football club and drive it almost to the point of extinction . read fan back this Bill , and they do so because they know that the Bill will make it far hard for what have happen to read ever to happen again . so I ask the right hon . gentleman : why will he not back this Bill ? I have just be explain why : it be because this Government have make an independent regulator a party political regulator . I be ashamed that they have do this . I ask the Minister to answer this question in she sum up : do she not appreciate that the appointment of David Kogan drive a coach and horse through the independence of the football regulator ? do she not understand that the appointment of Mr Kogan only exacerbate the risk that the introduction of the regulator could lead to England be exclude from european competition ? will she publish all correspondence receive from UEFA so that member and fan can be well informed of that risk ? give that there have be so many donation to member of Parliament , include the £ 5 , 000 that be give to the Chancellor , will she publish all correspondence regard the IFR from no . 10 and no . 11 ? will she also explain how small club will be expect to cope with the increase regulatory burden she have bring in ? it truly pain I to see what this Government have do regard this issue , play fast and loose with the independence of the regulator . they have turn this into a Labour Government regulator , increase burden on club when the Treasury be already hammer they with its taxis . it be beyond disappointing and I be genuinely furious — [ Laughter . ] Labour member may laugh , but when I meet those stakeholder , I make it really clear that independence be sacrosanct . the Government have destroy that in one appointment . they have put their crony before club and their friend before fan . they have put their donation ahead of football . that be why we have no confidence in this Government ' s ability to bring in a truly independent football regulator that will not raise more question than it solve . thank you for call I early , Madam Deputy Speaker — I run the London marathon yesterday and do not think I could bob up and down all evening . I respect the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) and count he as a friend , but his speech be hysterical at point . he claim again that UEFA will ban english team from competition as a result of perceive Government interference — he know that be wrong . the fact be that UEFA would have make a statement by now , and it have not do so . it do not oppose mirror legislation in Spain or Italy . it be not go to happen ; it be not go to ban English club from european competition . it be a fallacy to say that , and I be embarrassed that he have be force to come here by his party leader and move an amendment against a Bill introduce and endorse by the Conservatives . it mean the Conservatives lose credibility and we can not bring in a Bill that we can all unite behind , as we do in the previous Parliament . I must declare an interest as the author of that great book , " Don Revie : the Biography " . I discover in the research for that book how much football have come on . in the day when Don Revie win the league championship in 1969 and 1974 — I see my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) nod away — and the FA cup in 1972 , football be not a place to take family . People do not want to be in town on a Saturday morning , because fan be rampage through city and town throughout our country . People do not want to go to stadium , which be often crumble . there be hooliganism , violence , vandalism and countless example of club be ban . I take issue with the right hon . member for Daventry say — sorry , I be not single he out — that he believe passionately in football . it be pity that the Conservative Government of the 1980s do not believe that . they believe that the solution to hooliganism be to pen in our fan with electrified fence , and we have see the tragic result of that . that be what Mrs Thatcher believe , and if the right hon . Gentleman do not believe that , I would ask he to read Dominic Sandbrook on what Margaret Thatcher believe about football . she do not like the game , like many other people on the Opposition side . football turn the corner only in the 1990 , and it be ironic that the Premier League be endorse the Bill ' s prevention of breakaway league form in the future give that it be itself a breakaway league , it have break away from the EFL in 1992 . it be a british success story . the premier league have become the most watch game across the world , with 1 . 5 billion fan in 189 country . the global success story begin at home : it generate £ 8 billion annually in UK gross value add , contribute £ 4 billion in tax and support almost 100 , 000 job . this be a success story . I commend the hon . gentleman for his wise word and for set the scene so well . do he share my concern that the premier league be very much a rich man ' s world ? the ticket for Arsenal , for instance , cost £ 1 , 000 per person per season . I declare an interest as a Leicester City man . last season , our three club go up ; now they go down . do he share my concern that the gap between the premier league and the championship and the gap between the championship and the first and second division be become too great ? do he feel that it be time for the premier league to share some of its wealth with the rest of we ? yes , the premier league have a responsibility to share its wealth . it be interesting that this be the second year run that the promote club have go straight back down , and the gap between West Ham and Ipswich be huge . there be no way that they be go to breach that with four game leave in the season . there be issue we have to look at on that . turn to the Bill , even though I broadly support it , that do not mean that I do not have reservation , and I hope the Minister will bring some comfort on those . the new legislation include a licensing regime require club to satisfy the independent football regulator that they have sound corporate and financial governance in place that provide financial stability . licensing concern I . the fact be that the like of Manchester United , Liverpool , Tottenham , Arsenal — whoever we want to name in that traditional top six bracket — will have people in place who can bring about a licensing regime and they will be able to comply with it . that be not the case for a small club , and it could put unnecessary burden on they . that therefore need to be address in the Bill , and I hope the Government will bring that about . I thank my hon . friend and fellow Leeds United supporter . he talk about the top six . be it not true that Leeds United could have find itself in the top six of the english premier division have it not be for bad ownership and bad financial decision , and that be what this Bill seek to deal with ? of course , Peter Ridsdale ' s name be blacken in Leeds . it be also blacken in Arsenal , Barnsley and wherever he have be . Leeds be an important point . we talk about the glory day of Don Revie . we forget about the early 2000 , when we be overspend on certain player . there be massive wage where player have be sell and wage be still be pay . it be ultimately try to bring success to the club , but it fail , and when it start fail there be no safeguard in place , so my hon . friend be absolutely right . I believe and hope — the eternal optimist — that we both will be celebrate a top - four finish next season and will be back in the champion league for the first time since the 2000 . the huge issue I have with this Bill , though — again , this be a framework piece of legislation — be that when the independent football regulator come about , they will have to set out their rule and guidance . that will likely run to hundred of page and will take time , so the Government must make regulation specify which league will follow the legislation initially . they also need to bring about a timetable to ensure that when that framework legislation be write out , it be do in a way that do not affect club ’ future . the fact be that a lot of club with small budget have to plan for the future , so I hope that a strict timetable be put in place for governance and other issue that club must meet . I turn to my concern about the Bill . I have already talk about UEFA and the scaremongering from the Conservatives about english club somehow be ban from Europe , and I hope I have address that . the second concern be that the owner ' test might require some current owner to sell their club , although again that be scaremongere from the Conservatives . that be unlikely , though there be a possibility of some impact on the ownership of club in the next few year . the new test in the Bill develop the test already apply by the Premier League and the EFL to date , and the most significant change be likely to emerge in the long term as we see more in the guidance and overall approach from the IFR to how it apply to the test in practice . it be also important to bear in mind that the Bill be focus on the application of the test to new owner purchase a club , rather than owner already in place , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State touch on early . however , it be possible that some current owner may find themselves subject to the IFR apply the test if new information raise concern about their suitability come to light in future . I hope that amendment will be make in Committee to address that . I broadly support the Bill , but I want to return to something that need to be address , which be mention early by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) . throughout write the Don Revie book , I be heavily involve with the player and meet Johnny Giles , who be probably the great midfielder to come out of Ireland — sorry , Roy Keane . I meet his son Michael and his cousin John Stiles , who be the son of Nobby Stiles , who be a 1966 World cup winner . unfortunately , Nobby — like so many other professional and many of that World cup win side — succumb to dementia and Alzheimer ' s . they form the Football Families for Justice , a voluntary organisation that campaign on behalf of ex - professional footballer who have die because of neurodegenerative disease incur in the course of their work . footballer suffer neurodegenerative disease at four to five time the national average . it be something that need to be investigate . Alzheimer ' s and CTE — chronic traumatic encephalopathy — which be usually suffer by boxer from blow to the head , be five time the national average for footballer . motor neurone disease , which claim the life of my hero Don Revie , be four time the national average , and Parkinson ' s be twice the national average . that need to be investigate . this be the goal of the FFJ : " we call on the leader of the football industry to act with urgency in allocate a small proportion of their massive wealth to address the tragedy of dementia and other neuro - degenerative disease suffer by so many ex - professional " and " to meet the need of these victim with respect and kindness through good - in - class support , include care home cost and financial assistance for their widow , as require . " when the football regulator come about , I hope that research into medical condition be part of its remit , to support people who have give so many other so much pleasure over the year . I also hope that the football regulator will investigate not just the league but the Professional Footballers ' Association and the way it be run as a trade union . there be serious concern about the pay of the chief executive and the way in which that so - call union be be run . I hope that that will be part of the football regulator ' s remit . I hope that there be something we can do to ensure that the tragedy suffer by Nobby Stiles , Jackie Charlton and Bobby Charlton — legend whose name trip off the tongue — be not suffer by their successor , such as Harry Kane . as I say , in the main , I support the Bill . it be a good Bill . I be disappointed that Conservative Members have decide to take a crazy decision , even though the Bill be almost identical to theirs . I believe that the Opposition spokesman , the right hon . member for Daventry , support the Bill in his heart , but that other force — mainly the leader of the conservative party — have probably change his mind somewhat . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . football be irrevocably intertwine into our national story . it be about belong , about the community we live in and about what we do in our spare time , and it be what we daydream about when we be suppose to be work — I feel that on a very personal level every day . today I speak primarily not as a politician or a liberal Democrat spokesperson , but as a football fan . I have be to more than 50 football league ground , and to a fair few non - league ground , too — Brimscombe and Thrupp FC in the Stroud constituency be well worth the attention of the non - league ground - hopper out there . I have follow England home and away . these day , I mostly watch my local team Cheltenham Town , who have enjoy a thoroughly mid - table season , but I grow up watch Southampton , and when time allow , I still watch they now — through the gap between my finger at the moment . despite that , the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) , who be no long in his place , will remember when time be so much bad for Southampton . I be sorry that he be not here to hear this . I have a season ticket when he be chairman — [ hon . member : " he ' s there ! " ] oh , there he be , speak to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and not listen to a word I be say . I remember this from when I be a fan in the stand , call for so much well . I hope for the sake of football that today this Bill do not go the same way as the Saints ' season . as minister know , the liberal Democrats will support the Bill because the game need financial sustainability . there have be too many Burys , chester , Herefords , Macclesfields and Readings . the heritage asset in our game need protection . who can forget when Cardiff be force to play in red , or when Wimbledon be move against their will to Milton Keynes ? the Bill must expand the list of protect asset to include training ground , car park and hotel . the owner of read football club , Dai Yongge , try to sell the club ' s training ground , Bearwood Park , which be in my constituency , without any consultation with the fan . when I be leader of the borough council , I work to stop the sale with fan group such as Sell before we Dai , and we be successful . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill need provision to ensure that asset such as training ground be never again sell off for the gain of the owner ? I agree . there be too many example of football club be separate from their stadium , training ground and asset , and it be a disgrace every single time when football club be asset - strip . I mention sustainability , heritage and fan engagement . those be the three thing we think the Bill will bring about — those be its aim . although the Bill be not perfect , it will make important progress on all those point . indeed , shortly after I be elect , the board of Cheltenham Town and the Robins Trust both ask I clearly to back the Bill . we will do so because it be the right thing to do . the Bill be cross - party in origin . we should all thank Tracey Crouch for her work on the fan - lead review and the shadow Minister for his subsequent work on the Bill in the last Parliament . it be a shame that Dame Tracey ' s party have decide to score an own goal today . the conservative might seek to present themselves as akin to the England hero in 1966 , but in try to kill the Bill , they be more like the villainous Maradona and his " hand of God " in 1986 . by seek to kill the football regulator , they be betray football fan the length and breadth of the country — they be go in stud - up on football fan . that be the kind of political acuman that mean that they represent only one football league club . can anyone name it ? Bromley FC ! Bromley — there we go . I think that have rather prove my point for I . the Conservatives ' reference to the risk of increase ticket price suggest that they be either uninformed about or wilfully ignorant of the exist problem that football fan suffer every week with ticket price inflation , as ten of thousand of fan will confirm . unaccountable football club owner be not force to engage with football fan on the issue of ticket pricing . in my reflection on how to improve the Bill , I will begin with financial fairness . accord to Simon Perruzza , the chief executive of the Cheltenham Town Community Trust , the Bill be need " to ensure club like our continue to make a valuable contribution to supporter and the community , the game ' s fractured governance model and inequitable distribution of finance need to be urgently address " . the Premier League generate more than £ 3 billion each year from medium right alone , yet the share reach club far down the pyramid be dwindle ; it keep 84 % of the revenue now , up from 74 % in 2007 . any suggestion that the Premier League be a golden goose that will be kill by the Bill somewhat misunderstand the problem in our game . the campaign group Fair Game warn that the balance of funding between the top division and low league in this country stand in stark contrast to that in other major league . the fact be that the money simply be not trickle down here as it do in other european league . give that the person who negotiate that right deal be go to be the regulator , how confident be the hon . member that they will change the process that he criticise ? well , that person will be work within the boundary of the regulator , and he be obviously very good at strike deal , be he not ? if the hon . Gentleman ' s contention be that he do a good job in his old job , we can be confident that he will do a good job in his new role . the Liberal Democrats think that the redistributive mechanism ought to go even far to promote financial sustainability , include by take account of the restrict resource in the fifth tier , and redistribution beyond that level to cover more grassroots club in the national league north and south and beyond . then , there be social responsibility . football club be not just business ; they be also civic institution . they be often the most visible and well - love organisation in any community . Liberal Democrats in the House of Lords push for club to be mandate to report on their community work , so I welcome the new clause require club to do so . in my constituency , the Cheltenham Town Community Trust deliver £ 5 . 4 million - worth of social value work with young people and old people , and to reduce antisocial behaviour , in its last reporting year . what get measure get do . club want to continue do such work , but they can not keep do it if they can not afford to because the Premier League be hoard all the money . we need to go far to support club in that , particularly by provide help for small club that may struggle to fulfil reporting requirement . I agree with the member who have make similar comment . we believe that the Bill must go far on problem gambling . nearly 30 , 000 gambling message be post across the premier league ' s opening weekend this season . that represent a triple of ad compare with the almost 11 , 000 record over the opening weekend of the season before . such ad be normalise a dangerous relationship between football and gambling that be destroy life . football should not be a gateway drug to problem gambling . it can not be right that , whether watch on television or in the stand , we be bombard with gambling advert to the extent that the enjoyment of the game be now , for so many people , culturally intertwine with place bet . it can not be right that broadcaster can launch their own gambling platform , and use advert break to promote those platform , use the pundit who describe the game as mouthpiece for gambling . that merger of journalism and advertising should give we all pause for thought . to be clear , be the hon . Gentleman suggest that the regulator should intervene on the issue of gambling ad rather than this House take responsibility for do so ? I worry about the regulator ' s reach spread and about it force small club to engage with their community over ticket price and so forth ; if there have to be a regulator , we must keep it highly constrain . the football regulator would have a wide role than currently envisage in the Bill if the Liberal Democrats be in charge . when the Lords try to tackle the proliferation of gambling ad , the Government commit a professional foul . as the Bill make its way through this House , we hope that MPs will show gambling company a yellow card — yellow card on this matter be very liberal — not a red card ; we do not propose the banning of gambling , shadow Ministers will be pleased to hear . do you want to bet ? I will not be place any bet from this Chamber today — not to the benefit of myself anyway . on ownership , this Bill provide a strong defence against owner who might have a dodgy track record , but there be still gap at the back . the new owner and director test still make no explicit mention of human right . that be a glare miss . Sportswashing be an all - too - common tactic use by oppressive regime to launder their reputation through our national game . as the historic home of the global game , we have a moral duty to seek to use the soft power of football . those who want to run a football club in this country should not be able to do so while run roughshod over human dignity elsewhere in the world . liberal Democrats will continue to push the Government to replace the red carpet for dodgy foreign owner with a red card . on broadcasting , not a single premier league match this season have be show on free - to - air television . all 380 match in the premier league now lie behind a paywall , while matchday ticket be increasingly expensive . the late deal will see Sky Sports and TNT Sports have the right to show premier league match for a four - year period . that mean that those without a subscription will have no opportunity to watch a live match on television until the 2030 at the early . Spain ' s la liga have one free - to - air game per week , as do England ' s woman ' s super league . we will continue to champion expand access to free live sport broadcasting in this Bill . we will also call for the strengthening of the Bill to ban domestic game be play abroad . the thought of Manchester City play Arsenal in Dubai should leave we all reach for the sick bucket . we can go far to build a game that be open , accountable and properly rooted in its community . every good manager know when to switch to a 4 - 3 - 3 and bring on the super - sub . it could be Steve Howard — I understand that the Minister , the hon . member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , be a Birmingham City fan . now be the time for minister to embrace that principle of bring on substitute , change the formation and be even more ambitious about this Bill ; after all , they have more than enough player sit on the Government Benches to be more ambitious . they should do that because football be not just a business . it be part of who we be as a nation , so let we treat it that way . the Bill be very much rooted in what Dame Tracey Crouch recommend in the fan - lead review . I ask the shadow Secretary of State if he could detail any way in which this Bill deviate from what Tracey Crouch recommend . he mention independence and go on about that for some considerable length of time . no other proposal in the Bill differ from the fan - lead review — not a single one . the reality be that the shadow Secretary of State do not even convince himself with his argument today . there be a phrase that football fan chant — " you don ' t know what you ' re do " — and it seem to apply to his speech today . I be sorry about that because I respect his past contribution to the previous Bill , which be the framework for what be before we now , with one or two improvement . Dame Tracey ' s recommendation h be clear and be key to the fan - lead review : " fair distribution be vital to the long term health of football . the Premier League should guarantee its support to the pyramid " . that be key . the pyramid be uniquely british . the strength of the pyramid be uniquely british . we therefore need to preserve it , but we need a fairer distribution of resource in order to do that . one change propose in this Bill be the potential to include parachute payment when the regulator come to a view on what the distribution should be . instead of simply ignore parachute payment — pretend they do not exist , as the previous Bill do — this legislation recognise the problem that currently 92 % of the distribute funding for football go to 25 club : the premier league club and the club receive parachute payment . those club receive parachute payment have basically 10 time more resource than the club get payment through the solidarity fund from the Premier League . this be a nonsense . we can see the difference now between the championship and the premier league ; this year be , I think , the first when all three promote club have be relegate straight back down , and there be a great difference between their point total and the point total of West Ham , just above they . this be not sustainable — not at that level nor go down the league , as club simply struggle to survive . the english premier league be the good in the world . any bar we go into across the world want to show premier league football . there be a real danger of kill the golden goose if we try to pull that down . also , the championship be the seventh most valuable league in Europe , and it be our second tier . I have a big worry here . we should look at the way England be play , and at the way the club have come up . Leicester win the premier league in 2016 , and the like of Brighton and Brentford and Nottingham Forest be all fly up the league . the premier league be a competitive league , and that be what we want ; we do not want to over - regulate it and kill both our national game and our international presence . I be sorry , but we must kill this myth that somehow the Bill be go to kill the premier league . it be not . this Bill be design to sustain the rest of the football pyramid . we should look at the resource the premier league have : it have twice as much money as any other major european league . that be the difference . take a proportion of that away to support the rest of the pyramid will not undermine and destroy the premier league . it will help sustain the rest of the pyramid , and that be the message that we need to get across . on the rest of the Bill , the issue of the sustainability of the pyramid be absolutely key , but I be still a bit wary about the rigidity of the backstop power . there be some room for debate about give a bit more flexibility to the regulator on that ; I hope we can discuss that in Committee . the other key element be about ownership . we have hear story about the problem that club have have with owner who simply be not fit for purpose , and I have no doubt that we will hear more . I be talk to colleague in reading on a team call the other day , along with other Sheffield mps , and we discuss the problem face Sheffield Wednesday supporter . we should stop club have to face such problem in the future . on Sheffield Wednesday , the owner be not a bad man ; he have put a lot of money into the club and he have not rip it off , but he be clearly run out of money to make the club sustainable . he could not pay the player ’ wage last month , and he could not pay the tax due a few week ago . another failure to pay will mean the club be subject to a transfer embargo for three transfer window . that would completely undermine both the competitive and the financial basis of the club . that be not acceptable . the chairman be the only owner and the only director ; he do not have a board of director and have no chief executive . he run the club from Thailand by remote control , and when he could not pay the bill he say , " well , my company be owe money , so I don ' t have the money to pay the club ' s bill . " we do not know what company those be in Thailand . as far as we can see , he have no company that earn money . we suspect that the money come from the family trust that own Thai Union Frozen Products , which own John West and other brand . in other word , he be reliant on his family member to give he the money to pay the player ’ wage . that be not sustainable . this Bill compel the regulator to make sure that owner have the fund to sustain their club , and that the source of those fund be transparent and open for all to see . that be absolutely key , not only for Sheffield Wednesday but for lot of other club . finally , I be concerned that the owner , like owner of other club , have separate the ownership of the ground from the ownership of the club , and I hope we can strengthen the Bill on that issue . I do not think that be do for malevolent reason ; it be do to try to get around the financial fair play rule , and to help the club — that be his view . the fact be that the ground and the club be separate . other club have that problem as well . in future , if an owner want to separate the club and the ground , the regulator can step in to ensure that that be for proper reason , and do in the proper way . unfortunately , when ownership of the ground be separate from ownership of the club , there be a challenge . I would like a measure in the Bill that say that in order to get a licence , the owner have to prove that they have not only financial funding but a ground to play on . that should be lock in . change and improvement can be make , but the Bill really help football . it help fan to ensure that their club be sustainable , and it hold owner to account . it be great that fan will now have a real role and involvement in their club . they can be properly consult about what happen at Hillsborough ; currently , there be an engagement panel for fan , but the chairman choose who go on it . when people join the engagement panel , they have to sign a document that state that they will not talk about what have be discuss outside the group . what sort of accountability be that ? it be nonsense . the Bill will strengthen the hand of fan , so that they can properly engage with a club . I fully support it , and hope that the House overwhelmingly support it , too . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I start my comment by speak not as the Chair of the Select Committee , but as a football fan — in particular , with apology to the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) and for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) , as a Portsmouth FC fan . I understand very well what a football club mean to a community , a local way of life and the fan , and what they will do to protect it . in the five year that follow Portsmouth ' s fantastic FA cup victory in 2008 , we really go through the wringer . the club boardroom seem to have a revolving door . we have a succession of owner , each bad than the last . the club enter administration twice , and it have a 10 - point deduction on two occasion . pompey suffer three relegation in four season . I see what that do to the city of my birth and to the fan , who feel as strongly about the club as I do . the club be pull from the brink of oblivion by the large fan - lead buy - out in history — fan put their money where their mouth be . they have to , because the club be at risk of extinction . the Pompey Supporters Trust be form . some 2 , 300 pompey fan invest their own money and become shareholder , raise around £ 2 . 5 million . remarkably , under that fan - lead ownership model , the Pompey Supporters Trust be able to declare the club debt - free in September 2014 , just 18 month after take over . not all club be so lucky . time and again we have hear in the Chamber story of club fall into the hand of unscrupulous owner who have little regard or care for the club history , or what it mean to the local community . they do not listen to the fan , who we all know be the blood that run through the vein of our football club up and down the country . it be that , alongside the spectre of the european super league , that the previous Government have in mind when they commission the fan - lead review , captain so brilliantly by my friend Dame Tracey Crouch . it be pivotal in the genesis of this Bill . I hope that this reboot Bill will protect english football and keep club at the beat heart of their community , just as much as its previous iteration do . some of the Government ' s change to the legislation echo the previous Culture , Media and Sport Committee ' s recommendation . first , on enhanced fan engagement , we know that english football fan be some of the most passionate in the world . their voice must be hear . for too long , fan have be leave in the dark about decision on ticket pricing , home shirt colour change and home ground relocation . I welcome the Bill ' s commitment on that . I also welcome the removal of the requirement for the regulator to consider Government foreign and trade policy when decide whether to approve club takeover . that should ensure the regulator ' s operational independence from Government — a subject to which I will return . there have be controversy around aspect of the Bill , and particularly on the inclusion of parachute payment in the financial distribution mechanism , which have inevitably spark hostility towards the Bill . however , in a room of 10 people there would be 10 different opinion on how the parachute payment should work . the legislation will never please everybody . some people oppose the Bill entirely , and other have voice dissent for myriad reason ; there be grow criticism of the Bill this time around . the sheer number of amendment table in the other place be a sign of that discontent . it will be crucial to ensure that the legislation be right , and we have only one chance to do so . I suggest we take a moment to remind ourselves of the finding of the fan - lead review , and of why the idea of a regulator be conceive in the first place . it be conceive because self - regulation simply be not work , although it be give many chance over many year . the league have not be able to reach a deal on financial distribution themselves . we should not forget that , leave to their own device , six greedy club plan to break away to form the european super league , risk english football itself . do the hon . Lady agree that it be shame that there have not be recognition from the Dispatch Box that there would be no premier league if there be no grassroots football ? the well our grassroots football , the well the league will be . the hon . Lady be right . english football thrive because the ecosystem run from the grassroot to the top of the elite . our job be to ensure that it continue to thrive , and that every aspect of that ecosystem be protect and support . some irresponsible club owner continue to play fast and loose with club finance and asset . far too many club have be on the brink of collapse , and that be why the regulator must have a role in protect english football . however , the regulator will need to bring together all voice in that complex ecosystem for it to work properly . the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , which I chair , be look forward to our pre - appointment hearing with David Kogan , the preferred candidate , next week . it have be a long journey to get here , as I be sure the Secretary of State appreciate , have schedule and then postpone hearing more than once , as minister have struggle to pick a candidate . the chair of the football regulator will be utterly critical to ensure that the regulator perform its role well . they will steer the ship . they will set the temperature for football , go forward . they will have to come in on the front foot and broker strong relationship with stakeholder across football to get full buy - in . I have already speak about some of the nay - sayer and detractor . the chair will need to build faith and demonstrate a good understanding of the dynamic football ecosystem to have the clout that they will need . however , they need to ensure they do not come with a load of industry baggage . it be a really difficult position to be in . at the same time , to be effective , they must demonstrate regulatory experience . ultimately , the chair will have to demonstrate that they can be objective , fair and , crucially , independent of Government , the league and individual football club . it be a very difficult job to recruit for . indeed , UEFA have raise concern and threaten sanction over the prospect of Government interference . that be why I be surprised that the Government have propose a candidate who be so close to the Labour party , and who have donate money to the Chancellor and other . it raise concern about whether the regulator can truly be see as independent , give their close tie to member of the Government . I expect that the Committee will want to explore that in detail when we hear from Mr Kogan next week . he will need to demonstrate that he intend the regulator to be operationally 100 % independent from political interference . I struggle to see how that will happen , but my mind be open , because the Select Committee ' s job be to hold a pre - appointment hearing with this potential regulator . as other hon . member have mention , the former chair of the BBC , clearly a talented , capable and very smart man , be undo by the impression that he give of lack independence from Government . like the BBC , very many people out there be willing this body to fail , and I do not want to see that happen . the bad - case scenario for everybody be if the regulator be undermine in its infancy . even before the chair be in place , there have be some concern sign about the Government ' s approach to the independent football regulator . we know that many club in the premier league in particular have express misgiving and in some case very strong opposition to the regulator . despite what the Secretary of State have say — she have speak very strongly on this — there be some linger doubt . the whole process have be plague by leak and delay . member have see and hear the rumour that the regulator be poise to be throw out on to the late bonfire of quango even before it have start . when discuss the so - call blocker , it seem tell that the Government choose to single out the Gardens Trust , Sport England and the Theatres Trust , which will no long be consult over planning . when consider AI and copyright , the Government seem to be side with big tech over creative industry . member will forgive I for begin to feel like the sector we represent on the Culture , Media and Sport Committee be not value by the Secretary of State ' s Department . I look forward to hear next week from the propose regulator and to see the Bill progress through the House . I think the Bill can improve the resilience of club and encourage sensible financial decision . I would like clarity on how the regulator will operate alongside the cost control measure that it will have no oversight of , such as premier league profit and sustainability rule , which we have recently see club such as Chelsea manipulate to their own advantage and which will arguably undermine the regulator . I would be grateful if the Minister come back to I on that . I also want cast - iron assurance that the Bill will prevent the sort of painful , appalling situation that have be experience by read FC with its owner , Dai Yongge . otherwise , we will all be waste our time . it be imperative that this Bill safeguard English football , which be central to our community and to the national fabric of our country . football be a unifier : it bring people together for the love of the game , from the grassroot to the top of the elite club , and it be the envy of the world . all the other country in the world would love to have our football league . we must secure its future for generation to come . rise — order . with just shy of 50 member wish to contribute , the only way that I can guarantee the maximum number of contribution be by have a speak limit of five minute to begin with . I be wholeheartedly in favour of the Bill , as be many of my constituent . I place on record my regard for Dame Tracey Crouch ; we would not be here today if she have not initiate this excellent Bill . I also give a mention to the former Members for South East Cambridgeshire and for Bristol West , along with all the fan group and other body that have engage in this lengthy process . Sheffield be at the heart of football ' s story . although I be sure that many hon . member be aware of Sheffield Wednesday and Sheffield United , it have often fly under the radar that our city be also home to the old club in the world : Sheffield football club . the club be approach its 170th birthday , and to this day it still play in the old derby in the world against Hallam FC . critic of this Bill question why the Government be get involve in football , but story such as that illustrate that football club be no ordinary business . many of our large club be originally form by worker in town and city up and down the country , and they remain an essential part of the heart and soul of our community . I have have the privilege of see at first hand some of the excellent work be do in Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough by Marcus and his team at the Sheffield Wednesday FC Community Programme , and I place on the record my thank for all that they do . the good work that many of our club do for constituent in need and the joy that they can bring to many more only emphasise far why the Government be right to protect these vital asset . our club be not the plaything of the wealthy , to be recklessly mismanage and toss aside when the lustre of custodianship wear off . last week , I and a number of other member , include my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , have the privilege of meeting with the SWFC Supporters Trust to hear its concern about the direction of the club under its present custodianship . I do not have enough time to list the many issue highlight at the meeting , but one key issue be the disregard for fan engagement and even abusive disdain for the trust and other group from the club . I gently remind all those fortunate enough to be custodian of football club that without the fan , club be nothing . that be why I be pleased that this Bill will introduce a minimum standard for fan engagement and compel club to democratically select their fan representative . I strongly welcome another change that this Government have make from the previous iteration of the Bill in allow the regulator to examine parachute payment . the strength of our football pyramid be the envy of many nation , but a pyramid be nothing without a stable foundation . I believe that provide support to relegate club be important , but parachute payment in their current form be undermine our pyramid ; they have balloon to become one of the most distortive element of the modern game . last season ' s parachute payment to five recently relegate club be three time as much as the amount that 67 other EFL team receive in total . in my view , that be the drive force behind many of our beloved club be run in increasingly unsustainable way . it be no wonder that the majority of the top 92 club in the game be technically insolvent . the damage that irresponsible owner leave in their wake be immeasurable , as too many of my hon . friend have sadly be able to attest to today . I be pleased that Government be get to grip with the situation , and I look forward to support this Bill as it make its way through Parliament , help to safeguard the future of all the club in the pyramid . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . wherever I have be in the world , whether it be in Hertsmere or at the United Nations , I be always ask two question : " when do you meet the late queen ? " and " which football team do you support ? " such be the strength and reach of english football . as I have say to this House before , english football be a cherished cultural and soft power that rank alongside our great museum , gallery and stately home . indeed , I see that again this Friday at my brilliant local club , Boreham Wood FC , lead by the indefatigable Danny Hunter . three generation of his family have sustain that club , sustain community life , provide education , nurture we through covid and facilitate the next generation of star to rise all the way to the top of the premier league . I do not hesitate to act when english football be threaten by the rapacious greed of the propose european super league , which would have deracinate six of our great club . it be in that resistance to the ESL that the root of this Bill lie . the then Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , threaten a " legislative bomb " , which result in we bring forward the governance review lead by my excellent former colleague , Dame Tracey Crouch . in our consideration of this legislation , I caution that english football survive on cut - throat competition in which the reward for victory be high and the cost of failure be equally high . it be also dependent on significant level of global investment . well - structure investment be not a threat to english football : it be one of its great strength . I could list many example . we have Manchester City , which be back by the Abu Dhabi United Group and which have post record revenue of more than £ 700 million and profit of £ 73 million base on solid equity , not risky leverage . that be exactly the sort of leverage that be demand . likewise , Newcastle United ' s new ownership , lead by the Public Investment Fund , have bring more than £ 300 million of fresh investment without debt , so we have a thriving team and job create , with silverware return . beyond the premier league , we have see what the injection of fund at Wrexham have do for its extraordinary ascent through the league . and at Tottenham Hotspur , their fabulous stadium be now expand to include thing like the Eubank - Benn masterclass at the weekend . this all lead to the core question before the House , which I have very little time to address , but I will try to make my point succinctly . there be undoubtedly a case for regulation . the pyramid be not work , with £ 100 million for tv right at the bottom of the premier league as oppose to £ 4 million at the top of the EFL . we need to address that — it be not sustainable . likewise , the movement from the national league to the EFL be something that we need to expand , as exemplify by the 3up campaign . however , before we go down this path , we should look at how circumstance have change in the past year . look at the change in the global investment environment , principally as a result of instability in the US , and at the national insurance hike face by every club up and down the country . be this really the right moment to proceed with further regulation ? base on my 20 year ' experience in and out of government , I caution the House that when a regulator be create , however benign the intention , a self - serve bureaucracy always seek to expand its scope over time . that will be the case for this piece of legislation , and this regulator will be on the front and back page of the newspaper every single day . we have already hear argument from Lib Dem colleague for expand the scope of the regulator before it be even up and run . in this change environment , and give measure such as the backstop and its application to the pyramid and to parachute payment , I think there remain a window in which we can threaten this kind of regulation but not actually introduce it , because I fear the damage it will do . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I regret that I can not give way . for the reason I have describe , I will be vote accordingly at the end of this debate . I declare my interest at the outset , as I volunteer as a trustee of Millwall Community Trust . this Bill have be a long time in the making , and there have be more than a little bit of scaremongere along the way about the implication of a regulator for the future of the premier league . the Bill do not pose an existential threat to the premier league , and no one who support it want to undermine the success of the premier league . the existential threat be to the football pyramid , should we fail to secure a fairer distribution of resource . the EFL estimate that its club will lose £ 450 million this season . that loss will have to be cover by the generosity of those club ' owner , and where that do not occur , we end up in situation like we have with Bury , Derby , Wigan and many other . in 2020 , the EFL propose a 75 : 25 split of the combine tv revenue of both league , which at the time would have mean approximately £ 300 million of additional funding for the wide football pyramid . instead , in the four year since the EFL first make that proposal , spend on transfer in the premier league have go up by £ 850 million . in the 2022 - 23 season , the premier league spend £ 2 . 8 billion on player transfer ; the other major european league spend around £ 750 million per league . turn to wage , the premier league spend a combine sum of € 4 . 6 billion on player ’ salary . its near rival spend an aggregate sum of € 2 . 5 billion — that be a gap of over € 2 billion . compare with the Bundesliga , the gap be nearly € 2 . 5 billion , and for France and Italy , the gap be about € 2 . 8 billion . the £ 300 million extra that the EFL be ask for pale into insignificance when compare with those sum of money , so a fairer distribution of revenue would not impact on the ability of the premier league to pay the high salary for player or the high price for player transfer . it will , however , make an enormous difference to the sustainability of the pyramid . currently , the 20 premier league club and the five club in receipt of parachute payment get 92 % of the distributable money , which be around £ 3 billion . the remain 67 club of the EFL get a total of 8 % , or £ 245 million . that distort competition in the EFL and encourage club to overspend . the premier league club have to agree to change the distribution of tv revenue across the pyramid . in the four year that this have be under discussion , no acceptable proposal have be put forward , so it be clear that football need an adjudicator to end this impasse . although it be reasonable to help club adjust to be in the championship , it be not acceptable to sustain a system that force club to overspend in order to compete with club that be receive parachute payment . over the past seven season , two of the club promote have be in receipt of parachute payment . the top three place in the championship this season have go to club in receipt of parachute payment , with two match still to go . the 75 : 25 split will eradicate the need for parachute payment altogether , create a level playing field , and remove the incentive for non - parachute payment club to overstretch themselves financially . another major issue , which my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) have mention , be that of club be separate from their ground . that have happen to my local club , Charlton Athletic , and to many other club . it be difficult to see how the Bill could deal with that issue retrospectively , but it be one that we must not lose sight of . it may not be possible to solve it through this Bill , but it be something that we need to deal with urgently . the time have come for a football regulator , which can not fail to recognise that the current situation be not sustainable and that it must usher in a fair system . I pay tribute to all those who have play a part in get we to this point , and I look forward to play my part in assist the Bill ' s passage through this House . have be elect more recently , I be somewhat less burden by previous legislation , but let I be clear : have work in sport administration for many year , I have serious misgiving about a Government regulator in football . I know that this legislation start out as a very well - mean initiative , but I have concern — they have already be raise by other hon . member — about creep scope and the potential impact of government meddle in a great british success story . it be hard to argue that the premier league be not England ' s fine export . it be the envy of global football , a competitive and unpredictable league that attract the big name in the game to play in front of pack stadia , with hundred of million more watch around the world . the league contribute over £ 8 billion to the UK economy , pay £ 4 billion in tax , and employ over 90 , 000 people . its reach be truly unparalleled , as other hon . member have reference . I have see kid wear Chelsea shirt in rural Rwanda and meet Man United fan in Pyongyang — in fact , it may surprise the House to know that the premier league be widely watch in North Korea , albeit through pirate broadcast . however , I understand that spur do not regularly feature in the coverage , thank to their captain Son Heung - min . I be sympathetic to fan up and down the country who fear that the owner of their football club be go to run it into the ground . as a Leeds fan , I know a thing or two about bad ownership and financial mismanagement , and we have hear some good example of that from member represent Reading and Sheffield Wednesday . however , we should dispel the myth that every football club owner be some super - rich maniac try to squander their fortune in order to destroy a local football club . I absolutely agree with the hon . gentleman that not all football club owner be maniacs determined to ruin their club , but I gently point out that this regulator will ensure that those club that do have such owner will be well protect in future . do he not accept that point ? I disagree on the ideological level — on the ideological point about who should regulate football . I will come on to that in a second , but I do not believe it be the Government ' s job . I believe that the football landscape already provide for regulation . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will make some progress on this point , if the hon . Gentleman do not mind . as a former employee of a football club , Hull City , and as someone who have work for a national govern body of a sport at the Rugby Football Union , and for a national elite sport funding body at UK Sport , I have some experience of this issue . each of those body — the EFL , the EPL and the fa — have a role in regulation . as a fellow Leeds United supporter , the hon . Gentleman be probably prepared for I to talk about the finance around the transfer of Seth Johnson to Leeds United , but do he recognise the word of John Madejski , who say that the good way to become a millionaire be to be a billionaire and own a football team ? do he recognise that the current ownership model need to change ? those of we who support a club that be previously own by Ken Bates and Massimo Cellino have have our fair share of rough ownership over the year . come back to the wide landscape and who should regulate , above the Football Association , EFL and EPL we have UEFA and FIFA as international body represent the global game , and they each have a regulatory function . I believe that instead of the Government create yet another quango , head up by a Labour party crony , they should be work with the Premier League , EFL and FA to resolve current concern such as financial sustainability and fit and proper ownership . that would be a far more satisfactory outcome for the club and ensure that sport and politic be keep at arm ' s length . the hon . Gentleman mention UEFA and FIFA . would he categorise those as organisation where politic be keep at arm ' s length and where there be no place for cronyism ? the hon . member raise a very good point . FIFA ' s recent history be not a proud one , but we do not have time to go into that . there be an important point about the way in which UEFA and FIFA operate within the landscape . there be a danger that measure include parachute payment , which affect competition tool and structure , be in the scope of the Bill place the Government on a collision course with those international federation . that have already be discuss . ultimately , the fact we be here discuss this Bill today be a sad indictment of the relationship between the exist stakeholder . however , it be not beyond the wit of Government to find solution that do not involve a new regulator . [ interruption . ] well , I be not burden by previous legislation . I also worry that the Bill be play to a certain viewpoint among EFL club that money from the bottom half of the premier league should be redistribute en masse to the championship . those club argue that that would give the promote club — one of which I be a fan of — a well chance of success . I fear that could have serious unintended consequence . it could create a small group of entrenched successful club at the top of the premier league and ultimately damage competition , as the top club accumulate more and more wealth , to the detriment of club low down . it would effectively end any chance of a club such as Leicester win the title , or team such as Brighton , Bournemouth , Brentford and Nottingham Forest cementing themselves in the league and challenge for Europe . it would be another two - tier system create by this Labour Government . the idea that the championship be a poor relation be also false . every championship club receive £ 7 . 8 million from the Premier League , which be between 20 % and 40 % of their typical annual revenue . the EFL have recently sign a domestic broadcast deal worth more than £ 900 million , increase its own revenue by 50 % , and the championship be already the sixth - rich league in Europe . finally , I want to address the issue of the medium to long - term future of the regulator . this legislation have morph from create an independent regulator with a narrow scope to create a Government regulator head up by a Labour party donor , with sprawl power . once the regulator have deal with the most pressing issue , who know how it might justify its existence in future . the devil will surely make work for idle hand . my fear be that the football regulator will not behave as a guardian of the sport but will instead look to involve itself more and more in day - to - day club operation . we have come a long way since the dark day of the 1980 — an era that reach its nadir just under 40 year ago with the Heysel disaster , which see english club ban from european competition for five year . it be a period when the good english player seek to ply their trade in Serie A , La Liga and Ligue 1 . english football be now the envy of the world . I be sure our competitor in Spain , Italy and Germany be watch and would be delighted if we be to regulate ourselves into a less competitive place . if it ain ' t break , don ' t fix it . football be the beautiful game , and it be truly the world ' s game . for a century or so , the game have an ever - change churn of club have period of success . the game be not totally dominate by money , though money have always be a factor . with the inception of the premier league , quite literally the game change . I be not be overly critical of the premier league — it have , after all , make the English league the great and most watch league in the world . the money that have flood in from tv right and sponsorship have lead to many of the world ' s great player ply their trade in this country , which only add to the global appeal . but the money , vast as it be , be nearly all in the premier league . the gulf between the bottom of the premier league and the top of the championship be enormous . the prize money for come last in the premier league be four time great than the prize money for the winner of the championship , and that be before the over £ 80 million that each premier league club get from tv right . this make the desperation to reach the top flight great than ever . promotion do not just mean compete with the good team ; it now represent financial security . one of a number of club that have fall foul of too much risk and overstretch themselves in order to reach the promise land of the premier league be my beloved Derby County FC — one of the found member of the football league , champion of England twice , fa cup winner , and european cup semi - finalist . sadly , have fail in the championship play - off four time in six year , Derby could not quite take the final step to financial security . therefore , its unusual take on amortisation and its questionable way of make money out of its own stadium become much big problem . it be the premier league or bust , and for Derby it be very nearly bust . Derby go into administration , which in itself cost the club about £ 3 million just for the administrator . despite the club ' s proud history and remarkable fan base , with home gate average 28 , 000 , Derby County almost cease to exist as a result of financial issue , with the club be , accord to the current owner David Clowes , just one week away from go out of business . I imagine that most Derby supporter would say that the creation of an independent football regulator would be a good idea . the concept of a regulator come from the people who make football what it be : the fan . it be , after all , a recommendation from the fan - lead review . the objective of the IFR be sound : to protect and promote financial stability and financial resilience , and to safeguard our football heritage . under the Bill , each club will have to submit regular financial plan and regularly consult with fan . club will also have to demonstrate that they have the resource to sustain operation and show that they have the system in place to manage financial risk . the measure will help ensure that the risk take by Derby County can not be take again . I welcome clause 46 of the Bill , which will require club to get approval IFR before sell their home ground or use they as security for a loan . clause 45 will prevent another european super league debacle — a situation where there be no consultation and no real competition , just a licence to print money at the expense of the integrity of the english game . cardiff fan will no doubt be pleased to see clause 49 , which prevent a change of team colour . while I strongly support the Bill , I want to raise an issue bring to my attention by one of my constituent , former Arsenal and Leeds goalkeeper John Lukic . he have highlight the grow number of ex - player suffer from CTE , which be a form of dementia cause by repeat heading of the ball . I be encourage to hear that the Secretary of State will meet with Football Families for Justice . football can and should do more to look after its former player . english football have be such a success , bring joy and occasional pain to so many . I do not want another mass march to save Derby County . I do not want another 21 - point deduction . everyone want their team to be successful . More than that , everyone want their team to exist . I urge member to support the Bill . I want to start by congratulate Cheadle Town Stingers , which yesterday confirm its second place in the woman ' s national league division one north , just miss out on promotion by goal difference in what be their first season in the national league . I hope the House will share my congratulation to manager Dylan Wimbury and the whole team for this fantastic campaign . I have every confidence that the team will go one well next season . football have be a key part of my life since I can remember . when I be a youngster of about seven , I remember scoff down my Sunday lunch so I could rush in front of the tv and watch my hero , John Barnes and Ian Rush , put every team they play to the sword . I be a seven - year - old glory hunter , transfix by the way Liverpool would seem effortlessly to breeze past team . the iconic red kit become my uniform whenever I play in the park with my friend . I can still remember my first game . I remember the long walk up what seem like an endless mountain of step to then come in full view of that bright green carpet , surround by a sea of scarf , banner and flag , and the player . my hero be warm up on the pitch . I can still remember how it make I feel . it feel like fall in love for the very first time , because football have that power . it can bring people together in a way that only a few cultural spectacle can . whether it be a few hundred people watch a non - league club in Greater Manchester or 90 , 000 people watch the FA cup final in Wembley , for 90 minute football encourage we to dream together . I be interested in the community involvement aspect . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . mental health among man particularly be at a crisis point ; in fact , suicide be a lead cause of death under 50 . will the hon . member commend my club , Forest Green Rovers , which be try to re - enter the English Football League , for develop a scheme of " football on prescription " , which refer man to football so that they can feel well and more socially include ? that be absolutely fantastic work . football create togetherness and be incredibly important for our community . that be why the Football Governance Bill be so important . for too many year , we have see our game threaten by a variety of actor , be it poor owner , the creation of super league or the ever - increase price of matchday , which mean that only a small and small group of people can experience the game . the aim of the Bill to fix that be highly commendable , and I fully support they . term for the sale of read football club have be agree , but we be currently wait for Dai Yongge ' s signature for a deal to go through . sadly , we have be here before . his ownership have be a shakespearean tragedy . he have attempt to asset - strip the club , bleed it dry and hold it back from success . do my hon . friend agree that Dai must sell and allow read football club to enter a new era ? order . before the hon . member for Cheadle respond , let I say that if intervention be long , even few colleague will be able to get in . intervention should be short . they should not be speech . I thank my hon . friend for make that point , which be absolutely key . we have a history in this country of poor owner take our club for grant , and it be the fan who pay . there be thing in the Bill that I would like we to consider far . I would like to see more detail and focus on how football governance can support the wide football pyramid outside the football league . I mention Cheadle Town Stingers at the beginning of my comment . Cheadle Town be a wonderful example of a community - run football club that champion excellence , not only on the field but off it . the club sit in the heart of Cheadle and play an active role in its community , provide support for local food bank and coach for local school . it be also , in my view , an exemplar of how both the man ' s and woman ' s game should be champion in this country . there be a true " one club " mentality in Cheadle Town , where the success of both team be work for and celebrate equally , exactly as they should be . this be a true community club , and everything that the Football Governance Bill need to protect . the campaign organisation Fair Game put it well : " address the deeply flawed financial flow in the game could see extra money flooding into the town and city that have low league football club . " we all know that the Premier League receive the lion ' s share of the market revenue . in 2023 , just 25 club receive a massive 92 % of the revenue across the english game , while the other 67 club in the football league receive just 8 % . this disparity be completely eye - watering , but it do not even begin to take into account the club far below . these be the club that be at real risk . they have to fundraise and save to make sure they can put the floodlight on . many non - league club be now struggle with the rise in energy price , which have quadruple in the last few year , while other have have to sparingly cut the grass on their pitch to save further cost . facility be also a key issue . across Cheadle , there be just three full - sized 3 g pitch , which be share between 40 different team , while of the 18 grass pitch in Stockport , five have no change facility at all , which have a disproportionate impact on woman ' s team and disability team . the issue in our game be not just impact the premier and football league ; they be have a massive and sometimes fatal impact on our grassroots game . although the Football Governance Bill start to mitigate these issue , it do very little to encourage club , particularly the large premier league club , to support the very low tier of the football pyramid . I would like to see that change as the Bill progress and more thought give to how our grassroots game can be support . football be about community and often represent what be good about community spirit , so support the game at its very base need to be more of a priority . this Bill be a step forward for football in this country and should be welcome , but there be more to do . I hope the Government will take that on board and introduce a regulator that not only protect this wonderful game but promote it at the community , grassroots level . finally , if I may crave your indulgence for 10 more second , Madam Deputy Speaker , allow I to channel that seven - year - old who be obsess with the like of John Barnes , Jan M ø lby and Ian Rush , and say this : Arne slot , Big Virg and Mo , thank for bring home no . 20 . congratulation to Liverpool fan . as we have be hear this evening , football be more than a game . for my constituent and I , it represent community , joy and sometimes a fair bit of despair , too . it provide job , bring people together and be a source of immense pride , in spite of — or especially perhaps in — the dark of time . among the most haunting image of the pandemic be those of the football game that have to be play behind closed door . it be just not the same , for the player , fan or anyone else . last night , I be honour to be invite to join Rotherham United at the English Football League award . it have be a difficult season on the pitch for the Millers , but the incredible work that the club do in the community never waver . it support so many fantastic initiative across the borough : walk football , the woman ' s game , youth club , fitness class for pensioner , active travel — the list go on . I be pleased to be work with the club on project in Maltby , Kiveton Park and Swallownest in my constituency . Rotherham be a town that have have a difficult recent history , but it remain proud and have , in my mind , the opportunity to flourish again . the football club will be critical to that mission and right at the heart of it . as we have see in Bury , Reading , Macclesfield , Bolton and Derby — the list go on — anything that threaten the existence of club like Rotherham be an existential crisis for the town . these be place where the football club , the team , be at the heart of their identity , economy and society . offer some security for club down the football pyramid must be a priority . that be why I support the Government ' s legislation today . the story of financial ruin be become too common . the dam be close to breaking point , and there be increase sign , not least in the premier league and championship table today , that the competitiveness at the top of our game be also wilt . this statistic have be quote many time in the debate , but ultimately , 25 club — the 20 premier league team and five in the championship — receive 92 % of the revenue , or £ 3 billion , while 67 professional club share just 8 % . this inequality can not continue , not because of inherent unfairness or moral distaste , but because the game we love be now seemingly stretch to breaking point . I be sympathetic to the premier league ' s position . as we have hear from member across the House , we should be clear that the premier league be one of the most successful export in modern Britain . I would not support any measure that could seriously threaten the league ' s position at the pinnacle of sporting competition , but in my mind the Bill simply do not do that . first , the financial might of the premier league will not be threaten . there be a € 2 billion gap between the premier league and any of its rival when it come to wage . secondly , the Bill purposefully maintain the light touch , unless force into more intrusive action . the Government amendment in the Lords assist with that , ensure that the regulator ' s focus do not stray beyond a tight remit . thirdly , the football pyramid rely upon a thrive premier league . there be no benefit to any party in the negotiation to stifle the competitiveness or commercial success of the premier league . the EFL and the independent regulator must and surely will recognise that in their decision making go forward . ultimately , there should be a symbiotic relationship between the EFL and the premier league . each need the other — a thrive football pyramid produce talented footballer and ambitious club , and a premier league that excel . I would also like to raise the wide football ecosystem . Rotherham United be not in my constituency , but the football ecosystem of the borough , and indeed South Yorkshire and the country , be make up of brilliant non - league club . maltby Main FC , Kiveton Park , Dinnington , which be fly high in the league , and Swallownest , with its famous Swall Siro stadium , all play crucial role in our community and be run through the sheer will and hard work of volunteer . once the Bill have pass , I hope the professional game can consider how we can well help those non - league team , too . I have spend nearly 30 year watch football with my dad . I think each of my good friend be someone I meet play the game several year ago . I spend lot of time — too much , many might say — watch , play and read about the game . it be the game I love , and I be proud tonight to support this Bill , which go some way to ensure that it have a flourish future for decade to come . I should declare my interest , as on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , in two football - relate business as a result of my chairmanship of Southampton football club . we do not have many success story leave , but english domestic football be one of they — so what do politician want to do ? regulate it , of course . the big beneficiary from the success of the Premier League be his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , through tax and national insurance levy on player and staff wage . that be money flow out of the beautiful game . salary have correlate closely with the growth of broadcast income , particularly from overseas television right . Lord Sugar refer to it as the prune juice effect . no regulator play any part in lay the foundation of the world ' s most successful league . english football work and have work for many decade . my message to all Members today be to leave it alone . football be a risk business , support in this country by the most passionate fan in the world . it require a balance between risk taking and business savvy , if the aspiration of the supporter be to be deliver in the form of entertaining , successful football of which they can be proud . many of the failure in our game , such as Bury under Hugh Eaves and Leeds under Peter Ridsdale , be drive by board dominate by fan rather than by more logical businessman . the job of run a small club in the premier league be difficult at the good of time — I should know — when compete with club that have substantially great turnover . a regulator will simply make the job of small club more difficult and limit their ability to take calculated risk to successfully compete for promotion , league position or cup success . it be the large club that will benefit , and the dynamic that have drive the premier league ' s success will be undermine . be the hon . Gentleman really say that fan involvement in club be a bad thing ? I think the passion of fan can be a dangerous thing if they be on a board , yes . the FA Premier League ' s success have be drive by the prescient found formula for financial distribution , ensure a competitive league . under the Bill , fan collectively will suffer , and another more innovative league in another geographic region , probably in Asia , will emerge as a leader . member might all feel good about themselves , but billion and billion of pound will be drive out of the country . there be no need for a football regulator or indeed any more wokery in the game , exemplify by the support for a questionable organisation such as Black life Matter , when the knee be take before each game : the world ' s good football meet the world ' s good virtue signal . just last week , I uncover two coaching role offer by Ipswich and Fulham , both specifically exclude white man from apply . Ipswich make the right choice and remove the racist ad ; Fulham have not . these role have be push by the Premier League itself . match - go fan be overwhelmingly male and overwhelmingly white . they would be surprised to hear that club be ban they from apply for certain role base on their skin colour . racism be racism , even when white people be on the receive end of it . I hope that all of we in this House call it out for the wickedness that it be . we must eradicate the poisonous DEI from our beautiful game . fan attend football to escape all that nonsense . a functional football team be the perfect analogy for any successful society , base on merit and merit alone . fan do not want ideological lesson from their club ; they want to watch exciting football , enjoy a beer and have a proper day out . good for they , I say . all of we here need to leave they alone . those responsible for this Bill must also take full responsibility when the premier league inevitably wane as the woke do - gooder perpetrate the damage that history teach we be inevitable . the Chancellor speak oxymoronically about try to revive our financial market by regulate for growth , after the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 destroy London as a centre where capital meet risk . you do not regulate for growth ; you deregulate for growth . we do not need this interference by tyre - kick regulator in our national game . judge by this debate , the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport look like she be pretty handy on the terrace . I say to she , in football lingo : you don ' t know what you ' re do . I call Luke Murphy . be it your birthday ? it be indeed . happy birthday ! thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be no place I would rather be than follow the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) , with his interesting view that the issue of the game be the fault of fan — it be truly enlightening . I be so pleased to speak in this debate on the Football Governance Bill — gift from colleague in the form of intervention to extend my speak time will be gratefully receive — not just because the Bill will empower fan , protect club and keep they at the heart of their community , but because it give I an opportunity , after Basingstoke Town ' s final home game of the season , to pay tribute to a wonderful football club and the entire community that surround it , support it and stand by it through thick and thin . it be a delight to see the team get the victory they richly deserve on Saturday by beat the league champion , Merthyr Town , 4 - 0 . the result secure our position in the southern league premier south for another season . the ' Stoke be stay up . More than that , it be just a joy , after a tough season , to see the dedicated team who lead and manage the club , the player , the support staff , the volunteer and our loyal fan celebrate after so much hard work . in his open letter to the fan after Saturday ' s game , the manager Dan Brownlie give " a massive thank you to the staff , volunteer , board and player . it go way beyond match day . endless meeting , endless hour behind the scene try to create the good experience for supporter . you would not believe the half of it … it be selfless , and it deserve celebrate . from the steward , the board , the bar staff , the kit room and everyone in between , you be remarkable . " I could not agree more , whether we be talk about Jack Miller , Liz Lockie , Jacquie Meechan , Katie Oliver , Brian and Sarah Parsons , Neil the head steward , Adam Robinson , Aaron Nicholson , or the many volunteer , player and fan , past and present . they be remarkable . for all the money , well - deserve global attention and sporting excellence of the premier league , it be the community and the fan of local football club such as Basingstoke Town that make football truly great . football be more than just a sport ; it be a source of civic pride , community identity and economic opportunity , but for too long the governance and financial model of our game have leave club vulnerable to mismanagement , unscrupulous ownership and , ultimately , financial ruin . a stark example be the case of Basingstoke Town and its much - love Camrose ground . the Camrose be gifted to the club by Viscount Camrose in the 1940 , and a covenant be place on the land , restrict its use to football or as a sport ground . for more than 70 year , the Camrose be the heart of our town ' s club , and a vital community hub where generation of fan come together to support their team . People of all age come there to play the sport that so much of our nation hold dear . the covenant on the ground , which should have guarantee a sport facility to the town for another three decade at least , be and continue to be blatantly and disgracefully disregarded . in 2016 , the then chairman of the club sell the freehold of the Camrose to a company that he own . follow year of under - investment in the stadium , he eventually evict the newly form community club from the Camrose in April 2019 . the club be force to relocate to Winchester City ' s ground , over 20 mile away , cause disruption to not only the man ' s first team , but the woman ' s team , the youth academy and an array of vital community project . a once iconic stadium that bring pride and opportunity to the town be reduce to a distant memory . our town and club have lose a historic football ground . we have lose a large sport and community facility , and those responsible have be able to escape accountability and to profit handsomely from a disgraceful episode in our town ' s history . Basingstoke Town have since transition to a 100 % fan - own model , but that example be why I be so passionate about this legislation protect not just fan of EFL club , but supporter of non - league team like Basingstoke Town . I would like these measure to protect club at all level of english football . I would appreciate any information that the Minister could give on how the Government will work with the fa to support and regulate non - league club , in order to protect club like Basingstoke . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . it be terrible what have happen at read due to the ownership . the woman ' s football team have go from be in the woman ' s super league to be in tier 5 . will he join I in support woman ' s football , and in ask the Government for an update on their plan to implement the Carney review on the future of woman ' s football ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her gift of an intervention , and I wholeheartedly agree with her sentiment about woman ' s football , which be a basic part of Basingstoke Town football club as well . strong governance be vital . we need tough ownership test to stop reckless takeover , well financial oversight to prevent club from drown in debt , and more support for fan - lead ownership model . football belong to the fan . they pour in their passion , time and money . they deserve a system that protect their club and their community , not one that put they at risk . the Bill provide that system , and I commend the Government for it ; but I want to see just as much attention pay to the grassroot , non - league football , and its fan and volunteer , because as I say , they be what make football truly great . as have be mention , only one Football League club be represent by a Conservative MP , and that be the mighty Bromley football club . my effort to bring about a chant of " you ' ve get the only Tory " across opposition stand in league two be ongoing , and I will keep the House inform of how well they proceed . Hayes Lane , the club ' s ground since 1938 , stand proudly in my constituency . Bromley FC be a football fan ' s dream . we have go from strength to strength in recent year . earn promotion to the conference south league in 2006 , the club be crown champion eight year later . we climb the national league , reach the fa trophy final in 2018 and earn promotion in 2021 , but our rise do not stop there . Bromley face Ryan Reynolds ' s Wrexham at Wembley for a second shot at the FA trophy in 2022 . it be an amazing day , and one that I remember well . while we may not have have " Deadpool " , we do have Michael Cheek — Cheeky , the Maradona of Bromley — who secure the silverware with the game ' s only goal . I love Michael Cheek , and I congratulate he on be name league two player of the year last night ; it be well deserve . last year , a moment 132 year in the making arrive as Bromley be promote to the English football league for the first time in its history . why be this story relevant ? Bromley ' s football dream be realise thank to sound management , private investment and raw talent , not a state regulator , and I congratulate Robin Stanton - Gleaves , Mark Hammond — Hammo — and Andy " Woody " Woodman on all that they have do for the club . as a Ravens fan , when I look at Labour ' s supposedly independent football regulator , I have to ask whether it would help Bromley FC or aspire club like it , and in its current state , the answer be a resound no . when the Bill be first propose , it be propose with the right intention . it would protect cherished community club from bad owner , and would prevent a breakaway european super league . however , Labour ' s regulator be morph into a meddling , costly political deadweight for english football , because the regulator will be neither independent nor impartial . this be cronyism at its bad . my hon . friend be a football fan . do he recall hear any fan group say , " what we really need be a labour donor crony regulate the beautiful game " ? what fan tell I be that they want the money to move more freely through the sport . I shall say more about that in a moment . the cronyism be what we be concerned about . with political leadership , the risk of mission creep be great . More state intervention would threaten English football ' s independence , and UEFA warn that without independence , english club could not compete in european league . the Government know that their Bill could torpedo english football , and I wonder whether that be why minister refuse to publish UEFA ' s letter about it . the regulator will also cost club a small fortune . the levy to pay for the new bureaucracy will cost they nearly £ 100 million , and the regulatory burden will cost they nearly £ 35 million more , hurt the small club , such as Bromley , that do not have the staff to handle yet more red tape . for club it mean high taxis , more paperwork , and staff work on state demand , rather than football . for fan it will inevitably mean high ticket price , especially in view of the new job tax that Labour have instigate , and employment red tape . we should be focus on get money to the league club , not tie their hand with bureaucracy . that be what the club need . football be about risk and aspiration . team win or lose , be promote or relegate . this be not bank ; it be football . while I recognise that small club need support , a partisan regulator be not the answer . english football ' s independence be worth protect . let I begin by declare my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I think most of we have agree today that football have a governance problem . just last Friday , I attend a meeting with Sheffield Members of Parliament and fan of Sheffield Wednesday — fan who be desperate for their owner to sell their club , so that we can share the lesson from read football club . we be well aware of the problem of bad ownership at reading ; its stadium be in my constituency . our club be on the brink of expulsion from the English football league , after its absent owner be disqualify by the EFL more than a month ago . read and Sheffield Wednesday be the tip of the iceberg . as we have hear during the debate , and as we have see over the last few year , there have be crisis at Wigan , Derby , Portsmouth , Bury , Bolton , Macclesfield , Southend and beyond . football definitely have a governance problem . I be hearten that this Labour Government be serious about fix it , although sadly the same can not be say for all party in the House . it be shameful that the Conservative party , which initially back the Bill , have spend the past few month delay its progress . in those month , many member , include I , have spend our time fight for the future of our local club . every day be another day on which read fan be leave in the dark , another day when read staff and local business be leave wait for late wage payment . I ask conservative Members : how much long would you like we to wait ? the shadow Secretary of State like to talk about business and the economic case . I ask he this : when the average club in the championship spend more than 100 % of its revenue on wage , and when , accord to the non - governmental organisation Fair Game , more than 50 of the top 86 club in the country be technically insolvent , with liability exceed their asset , be this a successful market ? be it a function market ? I would argue that that be not just unfair , but financially unsustainable . as we hear from the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , self - regulation have not work , so we need to find a system that work . have the hon . Lady not receive a payment of £ 8 , 000 from the man whom her own Government want to install as an independent chair of an independent regulator ? do she not accept that that be a major compromise of the independence of that choose nominee ? I have already declare my interest , and I do not agree with that intervention . it be for we in this Chamber to decide whether we want a regulator , and whether we want the Bill to be pass . the Leader of the Opposition have say that she believe that any regulator would be a waste of resource . I presume that that mean that her party believe that football do not need regulation . it be for the Select Committee — previously chair by the hon . member for Gosport , who , in her speech , seem to support the idea of independent regulation — to scrutinise the appointment of regulator . read be one of the old club in England . it once pride itself on good governance , and be know for " the Reading way " . since the current owner take over , we have see four wind - up petition and five point deduction . sadly , the EFL , which try to support and intervene , have be unable to effect change for our club because it lack sufficient regulatory power . this be where the new ownership test , as well as the new licensing regime propose in the Bill , would have be so helpful . read ' s crisis be avoidable , and if we have a strong , independent football regulator , we could start to fix football ' s governance problem . as a Sheffield Wednesday fan , I understand the financial pain that club experience . do my hon . friend agree that the opposition do not actually know why they be object to the Bill ? I feel that I have see a lot of fancy footwork from the opposition that probably belong on the pitch . we need to build a football system that be fair , transparent and sustainable . that be why I strongly welcome the Bill , and in particular the creation of an independent football regulator . I also strongly support the new owner and director test , but let I be clear : this regulator must have real tooth . as well as a light touch , it must have the right touch . I hope that , as well as have the power to disqualify bad owner , it will also have the power to enforce that disqualification , and that the Bill , by be able to force the sale of share or through other intervention , can ensure that the regulation bite . I be confident that this Bill will support club around the country . as I say in my Westminster Hall debate , we need a regulator that pass the read test , so that fan of other club do not have to go through what we have have to endure . I have speak to the Sports Minister and the Secretary of State a number of time about reading , and I be grateful that we share a vision of what English football could be — although I be sure the Sports Minister will disagree with my particular vision that read deserve to defeat Barnsley this weekend in order to reach the play - off . I hope that Ministers will , in theory , support a strengthening of the ownership test by the time this Bill leave the House . I congratulate my hon . friend on her excellent campaigning on this issue . do she agree that read football club be at the heart of the community in Tilehurst — in my constituency — and in her constituency ? we have to act to protect club like read . do she agree that in their obfuscation on this legislation , the Conservatives be let down fan of read football club ? I agree with my hon . friend that the conservative party be let down many reading fan , not just in our constituency but in many neighbouring constituency , as well as fan across the country . this matter because reading be not just a club but a community institution . they be a source of pride , opportunity and identity , which I be hearten that many thousand of fan have come together over the current crisis to try to save . over 10 , 000 fan have sign my petition to launch an inquiry into the governance at Reading , and over 30 member of Parliament belong to various party speak in the Westminster Hall debate that I lead , on the topic of financial sustainability in football . that demonstrate how much football club mean to people , but unless we act to change how football be govern and run , fix the distribution model , rein in reckless spending and stop absent owner hide from fan , we will keep lose community club up and down the country . football deserve well , fan deserve well , and with this Bill we have a once - in - a - generation chance to get it right . I draw member ' attention to my membership of the football APPG and the woman ' s football APPG , which both exist to safeguard and improve the game that we love . I have also attend various briefing by interested organisation , such as Fair Game . it be clear that there be wide support for the principle of establish a regulator for football . it be in the Conservatives ' manifesto , and the Labour Government be deliver their own manifesto commitment , but the Bill be also welcome by the EFL and the Football Supporters ' Association . there be even some support from the Premier League , so I be confident that it will pass its second reading later . once enact , it will help we to sustain our truly national game . there be over 14 million grassroot player , include I — still — and over 40 , 000 association football club . football bring people together on a weekly basis to celebrate , to commiserate and to enjoy the unfold drama that only sport can deliver . football be also crucial to our local economy and local identity , but too many club be face uncertain time , which be why I support the Bill ' s focus on financial sustainability , the ownership of club and fan engagement . have these area of focus already be realise , my near EFL club , read FC , would not be in the situation in which they currently find themselves . that be why this Bill be need . we can not let something of so much social and economic value be unregulate , and this Bill can improve the connection between fan and club , and protect their heritage . the first half of this Bill ' s legislative journey have now be complete . although the Government do not formally accept any opposition amendment from the other place , the Bill have be improve . I welcome the amendment that have be make , include the requirement that board member and expert panel member must declare their interest , great inclusion of player and fan , the introduction of a social responsibility duty , and the inclusion of a club ' s contribution to the economic and social wellbeing of its local community . football club must be hold to account . sell off asset such as car park and training ground , transfer ownership of the stadium or even sell the trophy cabinet can not be allow to happen . what ' s that ? a Tottenham fan would be able to sell the dust . although football club be own by wealthy individual or investment group , they belong to their community . financial fair play have create unintended consequence such as sell home - grow player to get great profit , or sell off a woman ' s team as an accounting trick . as the legislation progress , we must ensure that it do not do the same . one area where there have be criticism of the Bill be the unintended consequence of increase ticket price . that be raise in the other place , and I note that the reason amendment , which would decline to give the Bill a second reading , also raise this issue . my team , Manchester United , who be join by Liverpool as 20 - time league champion yesterday , have already increase ticket price , without consult the fan , due to the level of debt . that debt have not strengthen the club , the fan do not ask for it , and it have only benefit the owner . the main focus of the Bill be to ensure the financial sustainability of the english game , so with less debt and more money go through the football pyramid , I do not hold the view that the regulatory burden will increase ticket price , and paragraph 4 ( 2 ) ( c ) of schedule 4 to the Bill give fan a legal right to be engage on ticket pricing . I support the principle of the Bill , but I want to explore how we can work with football club on fair dynamic pricing , concessionary ticket pricing and the cost for away fan , alongside how fan can own a meaningful stake in their club . finally , I accept that the woman ' s game be not cover by the legislation , but the Secretary of State have the power to bring it into the new regulatory regime . in Committee , I will seek more concrete commitment on what trigger be need for that to happen , as the financial success or otherwise of the man ' s game be already impact on woman and girl ' ability to play organised football , and I will ask colleague to explore these six area . in Derby , our football club be not just a team ; it be at the heart of our community , unite we across generation . Derby and Derby County have a rich footballe heritage , hero to inspire we and a bright future ahead , but the future have not always look so bright . in 2021 , we enter administration . fan be leave on a constant cliffhanger as administration negotiation drag on and offer little clarity . we be celebrate that the club have be buy one day , only to find that the promise fund have not arrive the next . thankfully , local man and fan David Clowes step up to ensure that generation of fan to come will be able to enjoy a Saturday afternoon at Pride Park . as he have say , " we would never want to see another club and its fan suffer in the way Derby do both before and during the period of administration . anything that can prevent that , include this Bill , should be support and applaud . " up and down the country , from Birmingham to Burnley , fan be rightly proud of their club . despite that fan base , it be not just Derby County face financial peril : EFL club across the country will lose around £ 450 million this season . this financial instability undermine the club that unite our community , risk the matchday magic for fan . that be why I welcome the Government ' s plan to introduce an independent football regulator through this strengthen Bill . it be right that club be require to stick to tough financial regulation , and that the independent football regulator will ensure a fair distribution of revenue . have experience Derby County ' s separation from its stadium , I know it be right that club will have to seek approval to sell or relocate from their home ground . this Government recognise that a stadium , such as Pride Park in Derby , be a huge asset to fan . when interview on the opening day of his first season as chairman , David Clowes be ask what he want Derby County to stand for . his response be " stability , integrity and progress " , which be exactly what the Bill stand for : stability , integrity and progress , to preserve and protect the game we all love . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate . as it have for so many member across the House , football have give I some unforgettable moment . I grow up listen to the score on Saturday afternoon with my dad , and I can still remember the pride I feel when my son have the opportunity to be a mascot at Stamford Bridge and we spot he on " Match of the Day " . football give we joy , community and a feeling that we be part of something big than ourselves . that same spirit , connection , pride and sense of belong be exactly what my constituent feel when they go to watch the Eastleigh Spitfires at the Silverlake stadium or away — and I be pleased to say that we draw with Woking on Saturday . football club be part of the cultural DNA of our town and city , with rich heritage build by generation of fan who turn up for every match — in the cold , in the rain — all for love of the beautiful game . this Bill be long overdue to put the necessary guardrail in place to protect our local club and the community that support they . what be football without story such as Leicester City ' s premier league win or Wrexham ' s remarkable rise ? team , no matter how small — with or without the support of Hollywood a - lister — should be able to have the same opportunity to compete . that be why I support measure to empower the independent regulator to block team from join a breakaway super league , which would tear the heart out of english football . currently , 95 % of the £ 3 . 2 billion annual broadcast revenue stay with the top 26 club — premier league side and those receive parachute payment . while the Bill take step to address some of these issue , it unfortunately leave the national league and grassroots football outside the scope of the propose regulator . the regulator will only require club to consider the interest of their own fan and member , not the long - term health or sustainability of the entire pyramid . this be a miss opportunity that I hope the Government will address as the Bill progress . we must also recognise the need to strengthen the owner and director test by include clear human right check . a repressive regime should not be allow to buy its way into our national game , use english football to sportswash its image simply because it offer the high price . that be why I hope the Government will strengthen the Bill by embed a human right test into the regulation for owner and director . this Bill must strike a balance in protect the success of our globally admire game while ensure fairness , access and sustainability across the pyramid . recently , I visit the Crescent primary school in my constituency , and I be blow away by the passion and commitment of the school staff in encourage girl as well as boy to play football . it be a powerful reminder of what football can offer future generation when access , inclusion and opportunity be at its core . football belong to the fan , the community and the kid kick a ball about at school or in a local park . they have make this game what it be , and we owe it to they to get it right . I will start by quote this historic football match commentary : " it ' s Grimsby give it away in a very dangerous part of the pitch , for the first time the visitor become the architect of their own downfall , it ' s tuck in by the substitute Luther Wildin and stevenage you sense be go up today ! " with apology to my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) , that be the moment on 3 May 2023 when the Mighty Boro , Stevenage FC , score the final goal in a match that seal their promotion to the EFL league one , where they remain today . our club , whose colour I be wear , be part of the lifeblood of the town not just on the pitch , but off it , with the incredible work they do in the community . it be the exemplar of a local football club be a truly community asset . I speak in favour of the Bill because it be not just about much - need regulation , but about safeguard the future of our national sport , ensure financial stability for club across the pyramid and make sure our fan — the people who spend their money , week in and week out , to follow their team across the country — be give a real say in how their club be run . I thank my hon . friend for give way . he be tell a very similar story to that of my local club , Leyton Orient . its fan warmly welcome the reinvestment from David Gandler , build on the leadership of the chairman , Nigel Travis , who have deliver sustainable growth , promotion to league one , clear championship ambition and a new stadium , and have strengthen the community with up to £ 6 . 7 million in social value . do my hon . friend agree with I that all ownership transition should be like this and should follow this model of fan engagement ? I certainly agree with my hon . friend . we both represent constituency with club that be good example of what can be do , but our duty here be to safeguard our club and all club in this country from future failure . they be not business ; as I have say , they be community asset . last season , 23 . 7 million people attend match in EFL competition , demonstrate the profound connection between these club and their local community . it be not just on the pitch that club be contribute to their community . in the same season , EFL club contribute over £ 1 . 2 billion of social value through their community programme , with my local club ' s community arm , the Stevenage FC Foundation , alone generate £ 10 . 7 million of social value in my constituency and the wide area . in that timeframe , the foundation also deliver 185 training session per week , engage over 15 , 000 unique participant annually and deliver over 9 , 000 hour of activity . that be an incredible feat . however , the financial stability of all club across the football pyramid be in a precarious place , with EFL club expect to lose around £ 450 million this season alone . alongside this , the financial disparity between the premier league and the EFL be stark . in the 2022 - 23 season , 20 premier league and five EFL club with parachute payment receive 92 % of the distributable revenue , while the remain 67 professional club share just 8 % . this imbalance undermine the systemic sustainability of english football , and I be glad that this Bill propose change so that a 75 % - 25 % split of combined medium revenue between the premier league and the EFL will become the new normal and provide much - need financial support to EFL club . it be clear that the financial situation in which we find ourselves across the pyramid be untenable , and this have directly lead to financial crisis in club across England . it be beyond belief that the Conservative party , which sit on its hand for most of the past 14 year , claim in its manifesto that it want an independent football regulator , so why on earth do we not have cross - party consensus on this principle ? quite simply , because it be no long independent . the hon . Member will know that the Bill have be improve to make the independent regulator more independent , for example — and there be plenty of example of improvement in the Bill — by give the regulator a great ability to actually regulate the game . conservative Front Benchers say they support independence and say they want regulation , but many of its member do not like regulation at all . this be not a party that believe in protect the national game ; it be a party that want to play party political football with something that should have cross - party consensus . alongside the financial stability that this Bill will bring to our club , we need to respect fan ' involvement in these community asset , so I want to pay tribute to all the club that already engage in good faith with their fan . I be proud of the work that stevenage have do to involve fan representation in their yearly engagement plan , and for the initiative of other club , such as Blackpool , whose director I chat with at the match with stevenage last week . they explain how they have have a pint with Tangerine fan from across the country to hear their view on how the club should be run . that say , they do get a bit lucky at our place , although I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) would agree with I that both our club have great foundation and trust that support their fan . I be also pleased that the amendment the Government have make to the Bill during its passage in the other place actually do strengthen that independence , as I say to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) . under this Bill , poor and reckless behaviour that ignore local fan community will not be tolerate by the regulator . this Bill provide the safety net that club need to be financially secure and to be able to deliver for their local community for a long time to come . let we all support this Bill , and therefore support our fantastic football club . rise — lengthy intervention be eat into time , so the time limit be now four minute . I declare an interest as a supporter of Norwich City and King ' s Lynn Town . other Members have refer to the success of the premier league and the fact that the EFL be one of the good attend in Europe . football , we should take it as read , be a success story . I want to focus on the risk pose to the game by the Bill and regulation . indeed , even the Government concede that the new regime and distribution provision in particular be unique and unprecedented . the objective of sustainability , prevent breakaway competition , safeguard heritage and strengthen engagement be support by fan , but much of that be already happen under the exist rule of the fa , the Premier League and the EFL . my concern — the one I express in the previous Parliament when we debate a similar Bill — be that it will lead to overreach and over - regulation . we have hear bid already from across other part of the House to load burden on football , include protect car park . the Prime Minister have say on regulation : " the key test … be this go to make our economy more dynamic ? be this go to … unlock investment ? " yet he be create a new regulator that will take £ 100 million out of the game , include for small club , and regulatory scope and cost will inexorably increase . the task of the regulator be already vast . it will have to approve business plan for 116 club as part of licensing . apply such banking - style regulation to a sport be inappropriate . the provision on revenue of course attract a lot of attention . let we be clear here : the Government be take power through the backstop to mandate the division of commercial revenue . these be unprecedented power that will cause significant regulatory and investment uncertainty . there be a voluntary agreement at the moment , which be essential to the health of the game and to get fund flow through the pyramid . the backstop , which be mean to be a last resort , be now the frontstop . the EFL have be very clear that it be wait for the provision to come into force and it will not agree to anything until then . the Government have make the situation bad by include the parachute payment , which will prevent club that want to invest when they get promote and take a risk so they can compete from do so , which will weaken the competitiveness of the game . then there be the untried binding final offer arbitration model . rather than consider the proposal put forward by the Premier League and EFL to determine which be the good approach — it may be a compromise between the two — we have a russian roulette approach where the regulator have to pick one or the other . Lord Birt put forward an amendment in the other place to introduce an approach base on commercial arbitration instead of that model , which incentivise game . the Secretary of State have some warm word for what Lord Birt have do in the other place . I would be grateful if the Minister , in wind up , can clarify whether the Government be still talk to Lord Birt and other legal expert in the other place , with the intention of change the flawed backstop model . to conclude , the Bill would introduce unprecedented regulation of our national game . there be clear risk , through excessive regulation the Bill will introduce , to the very element that make football the great success it be . that be why I will be oppose the Bill . the Government and the Prime Minister will be rightly hold responsible if they get it wrong and undermine football . we be here to discuss football , an unmatched force of pride and passion across all corner of the country , from Barnet to Brighton and York City to Yeovil . that be why the Labour Government be introduce an independent football regulator . today , I be speak in this debate with a somewhat unique perspective : as a former national regulator at the Financial Conduct Authority , but also as an ordinary person who enjoy watch my local team . I be involve in the FCA ' s development of strategy . it move from what be call a rule - base approach to an outcomes - base approach . in my view , the IFR should adopt a similar approach , base on focus on what good look like for football governance and community benefit . its core goal must be about put fan at the heart of the game . I thank my hon . friend for give way on this important matter . fan be the heart and soul of our football club . at Ebbsfleet United football ground , the Fleet Supporters ' trust be absolutely crack in that space . do he agree with I that fan will respect transparency , civility and a voice in the game they love ? I certainly do , and that should be the goal of the regulator . Fan engagement be great at York City , but it be not a give elsewhere . that be why the IFR should have a fan advisory board of its own feeding back on its own effectiveness , just as I see at the FCA with its advisory panel . move on , there be no great problem in football that need fix than ticket pricing and I think the football regulator should look at it in future . this be all about give back to the ordinary work people of this country : the grafter who pay their taxis , work hard all week , just wait for those 90 minute on a Saturday . some championship club charge away fan £ 45 this season , and some league two side will be charge over £ 30 a ticket next season . York could be play in that league next season and it be just not on , so in my view the IFR should have a great role in relation to pricing . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be go to make some progress and allow other member to speak . let we roll out an away ticket cap across the EFL and national league , like the one that already exist in the premier league at £ 30 . that be up for review this year . it should not only be keep , but expand across all division as a ceiling , not a target for club . I understand the careful balance to be strike on the regulator ’ remit , but with price climb and no control we must do something before it be too late . the regulator will cover man ' s football , but we should also consider how revenue could be share to boost woman ' s football and foundation club . perhaps that should be consider too . the IFR will cover the top five division , recognise the great progress the national league have make in recent year . take Wrexham , who win a third successive promotion , to the championship , over the weekend . the problem , though , be the cap on promotion place , with only two team go up this season from the national league . there have be a debate for some time about introduce a third promotion spot . in my view , with the IFR , now be the right time . I should declare an interest as York City would be all but promote by now . this be about open our wonderful pyramid up , not close off competition . if I may , I will finish by share a further idea about english football . it be 40 year since alcohol be ban in view of the pitch . perhaps it be time for a modern approach to a modern game . the day of hooliganism be go . fan of other sport can drink in the stand , but football fan can not . limited trial of designated drinking zone in view of the pitch could be an interesting idea . for I , we should always keep family area free of that , but let we give fan who want to drink in the stand the chance to do so responsibly , or at least let we have a conversation about it . to conclude , fan engagement have to be at the heart of the reinvigoration of english football . this moment should kick - start a broad conversation about what fan want . it be this Labour Government lead the charge for the hard - work fan of this country . today be about protect the fan to inspire the generation of tomorrow and to protect the sport we all love . unlike many member of this House , I can remember a time when football be in the shadow . overwhelmed by hooliganism , it be look down on , as the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Chris Evans ) note . like all across the House and the country , I be delighted at how football have change . as a lifelong Crystal Palace fan , much to my Wimbledon constituent ' shame , I have follow my team across the country — not to mention gloriously up the road at Wembley this weekend , in the company of the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the right hon . member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , another fellow Eagle — and have see how a spectator sport once renowned for mindless violence and prejudice have transform into one that champion inclusivity . the game I love be no long marginalise ; it be now celebrate and support by people from all background . it hold a central place in our national identity , while the growth and success of the woman ' s game have be particularly inspiring and be critical to the sport ' s overall development . I look forward to Crystal Palace Women regain their place in the super league next season . as I say in my maiden speech , I welcome the Bill . it be vital to introduce a regulator that can ensure the professional game be sustainable and put those most important to its success — namely , the fan — at its core , despite the contempt of the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) and the bizarre volte - face from the official Opposition . as we have hear , the premier league have unrivalle global reach , but in celebrate its international reach and national popularity , we must not forget football ' s origin . football club be not asset to be buy and sell like superyacht , but the lifeblood of community . my Wimbledon constituent understand well than most what happen when club be treat as mere asset , with the purchase of what become nothing more than a commercial franchise when the original Wimbledon FC move to Milton Keynes — adopt the still controversial name of MK Dons — remain a deeply traumatic event for many of my constituent . despite opposition from the fa and the Football League , Wimbledon FC be steal from the fan and rip from our community . thankfully , AFC Wimbledon rise from the ashe of the MK Dons debacle and now serve as an inspiration to many . as a majority fan - own club , they be rightly admire . their success also demonstrate that club can thrive when fan be in control . in Wimbledon , we be fortunate to have two professional club that be deeply involved in the community . Fulham FC , whose training ground be in my constituency , undertake significant community work partner with local school , community group and disability charity , while AFC Wimbledon embody this community spirit even more fervently . when the covid - 19 pandemic begin , three AFC Wimbledon fan establish the Dons local action group to help to combat the impact of poverty in our community . last year , it distribute almost £ 1 million - worth of food to the poor in Wimbledon . the sustainability of our football club be crucial , but we must be cautious about stifle ambition . a rigid regulatory framework could prevent club , especially those from small league , from make their way up the pyramid as swiftly as we have see in the past ; Fulham FC , for example , experience a meteoric rise from the fourth tier to the premier league in just six year . along with other club , Fulham have raise concern that excessive financial constraint could stifle the ambition of small club that aspire to emulate their success . we must strike the right balance , ensure that reckless behaviour be curtail while allow club the freedom to chase success in a responsible , sustainable way . I finish by say that I support this Bill and that I be so surprised by the Tory volte - face — it make no sense . this evening ' s debate demonstrate to all of we , regardless of our opinion on the Bill , just how important our football club be to our community . the sense of pride with which we have all speak this evening be , I think , a tribute to all our club . sadly , my remark tonight be tinge slightly with sadness . on Saturday , Carlisle United confirm their relegation to the national league , lose 3 - 2 to Cheltenham . I be sorry that the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) be not currently in his place , because I be go to congratulate he — through gritted tooth — on his team ' s win . my spirit be , however , somewhat restore by the provision of this Bill — namely those to improve the financial stability of our football club , protect our club ' important cultural heritage and asset , and ensure that they engage with fan on matter important to they . I be pleased to say that on those three count at least , Carlisle United be on good form . thank to the Piatak family , who buy Carlisle United just 18 month ago , the club ' s financial position have vastly improve . the new owner not only buy the historic debt but have invest million in Brunton Park , create new fan facility include an excellent fan zone that befit loyal Blues fan . the owner have also agree term with Cumberland council to develop a new training ground adjacent to the city ' s athletic facility . the board be also conscious of Carlisle United ' s important cultural heritage . last year , to mark the club ' s 120th anniversary , a special exhibition be create at our city ' s Tullie House museum , feature among the exhibit Jimmy Glass ' s blessed boot — if you don ' t know , you should look it up . Fan engagement be also strong , with open forum , community involvement and an active commitment to diversity and inclusion . this be recognise last August , when the club be rank second in English football for fan engagement by Think Fan Engagement . therefore , although I might be sadden by Carlisle ' s relegation , I be confident that the club ' s foundation be strong than ever . not all club can say that , though , and that be why this Bill be require . I do not need to tell this House that our football club be more than just club ; they be the lifeblood of our community , bring we together , give we moment of collective joy and sorrow and engender local pride . that be why I be glad we be finally step in to give football fan up and down the country some peace of mind about the future of their club . although Carlisle might be in the national league next year , I know the club be in good hand and I be reassure that the Bill will keep other club safe , too . that be how it should be . as former Carlisle manager the great Bill Shankly once say , " some people think football be a matter of life and death … I can assure you it be much , much more important than that . " I broadly agree with the Bill , but I hope you will kindly indulge I this evening , Madam Deputy Speaker , especially as my team , Leicester City , which have languish near the bottom of the premiership , be now confirm relegate to the championship . relegation be not a new experience for Leicester City fan . what be new , however , and what make this season hard to bear , be the absence of fight and passion and the complete lack of competitive edge , which bring I to the heart of my remark today . those of we who have long admire the beautiful game will remember why English football capture the imagination of the world . it be not merely a technical exercise ; it be a game of passion , grit , and blood and thunder . team would throw the kitchen sink at the opposition to get a goal , and game be contest with courage as much as skill . within the fabric of the sport live character , maverick and personality who make the game more than just a business — they make it a spectacle . football today be different . while there have be many improvement , as have be mention by other member , it be now be a highly technical game . player be physical specimen , sculpt by science . there be widespread feeling that character be be coach out of our player , leave behind robotic individual task with execute tactical blueprint . if football on the pitch be already at risk of lose its fire to rigidity and over - formulation , will regulation off the pitch risk extinguish the spirit of competition entirely ? let I speak from a personal experience . under the late Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha — a man we still sing about from the terrace ; a man who dare to dream — Leicester be promote from league one to the championship and , within six year , be crown premier league champion in perhaps the great miracle in sport history . how do that happen ? it be by take certain risk . one such risk be spend £ 1 million on a non - league player in his mid - 20 — an absolutely unheard of move at the time , and an absolute gamble for a club of our size . that player , of course , be Jamie Vardy , who go on to break record , represent his country and inspire an entire generation . as Jamie now announce his departure after 13 magnificent year , I will take this opportunity to say : Jamie , you be the GOAT — thank you for everything you have do for we . Leicester City ' s success give hope to every so - call small club , show that ambition , risk taking and dreaming could defy the odd — the essence of competitive sport . that be why some of we be concerned about this Bill . will regulation inadvertently consign club like Leicester to know their place and simply participate , rather than compete ? will it entrench a system where a few be dominant and other merely survive ? of course , reform be necessary ; we must improve fan engagement , protect club heritage , stop breakaway league and insist on proper conscientious ownership . however , we must not create a sterile landscape where ambition be stifle and dream be confine to the past . I seek reassurance on a couple of point . will the funding from this legislation be channel properly into grassroots club — the lifeblood of our national game ? will the financial distribution address , rather than exacerbate , the widen gap between the premier league and the low division , particularly regard parachute payment ? will the arbitration process be fair , promote compromise rather than extreme outcome ? lastly , will club review be target and proportionate , instead of ofsted - style tick - box exercise ? we invent the beautiful game and share it with the world . it be play in every gully , alley and favela across the globe — order . when Christine Seddon sit down with I and the Secretary of State in Blackpool last year , she speak with the quiet , fierce pride of someone who have fight for her club and win . Christine be a third - generation Blackpool FC fan , and as chair of the Blackpool Supporters Trust she help lead a movement that bring integrity , pride and professionalism back to a club on its knee . she tell we that the situation in Blackpool be unique , and she hope that it would stay that way . she say : " to have to politicise football fan be not something we ever want , " but after be let down so badly , it be feel there be no choice . Christine ' s word have stay with I . imagine have to go head - to - head with the very club your family support for generation because you love it too much to watch it be recklessly destroy . that be the reality at Bloomfield Road . after year of mismanagement and failure to reinvest significant earning , and a complete disregard for supporter , Blackpool fan take matter into their own hand and a four - year boycott , lead with the courage and unity of the Blackpool Supporters Trust , restore pride in our club and give hope to fan everywhere . Christine tell we that if we have say to she five year ago that a football governance Bill be come , she would not have believe it — it would have be the answer to her prayer . now we must get it right . the Bill must give fan like Christine , group like the Blackpool Supporters Trust and million of fan across the country the voice they have earn through their loyalty and sacrifice , and by part with their hard - earn cash to support their club through every high and low . since its founding in 1887 , Blackpool football club have be a constant in our community , but , like so many other , we have see a grow disconnect between those who own our club and those who make they matter — the fan . fan be the beat heart of local football . they turn up rain or shine — there be a lot of rain in Blackpool — win or lose , but too often they have be let down and ignore . nowhere be the need for change more powerfully demonstrate than at Bloomfield Road in 2015 . Blackpool ' s story be not just about survival ; it be about what fan can achieve when they be respect , hear and empower . that be why in 2018 the Blackpool Supporters Trust become one of the first fan organisation to formally petition Parliament for an independent football regulator . it see what be come and act . today , with this Bill , we be answer that call . it will tackle rogue and incompetent owner and start to rebalance power between the boardroom and the stand . it will ensure that no club — not Blackpool , not bury , not read and not Macclesfield — be ever again allow to fall into crisis because of rule . the premier league be a phenomenal british success story , watch and envy across the world . nobody in the House seek to punish its success , but even the great league can not stand without strong foundation . when 95 % of the £ 3 . 2 billion of annual broadcast revenue remain with just 26 club at the top , the case for fairer distribution to sustain the whole pyramid become impossible to ignore . protect the pyramid be an investment in the future of our national game . that be why the Government ' s approach , in give the regulator target backstop power to intervene as a last resort , be the right one . Christine also remind we of something else — that fan be not just spectator , but a massive untapped resource of knowledge , passion and experience that club would do well to harness . this weekend , Blackpool will play their last home game of the season . sadly , they have fall short of their promotion hope , but the stand will be full because loyal fan will turn up and do as they always do : give unwavere support to a team who have show professionalism , determination and ambition for our club . this be the Bill for they , and for every supporter who never give up . I declare my interest as an Aston Villa season ticket holder and therefore speak as somebody experience in the high and low of football . I refer not to the FA cup semi - final on Saturday but to the moment in 2018 when Villa almost go bust under Dr Tony Xia . to own a football club be to respect one ' s responsibility as a custodian of an important community institution . that be something , despite some of the speech we have hear , that most owner respect . we can not debate the Bill without acknowledge the extraordinary success of english football , because the premier league be the great show on earth . it be broadcast to 189 different country , and nearly 2 billion people follow the league weekly . the revenue that football accrue be invest not only in top talent but through the division and in grassroots facility oversee by the excellent Football Foundation . the New Croft in my constituency , for example , be home to Haverhill Rovers , who just become champion of the Thurlow Nunn league first division north , and incredible all - weather pitch that host more than 50 team of different age and ability . what be the problem that the Bill seek to fix ? the Government say that the new regulator will protect and promote the sustainability of english football . the example give to justify regulation be Bury and Macclesfield Town among other , but the experience of those club show the power of community and supporter activism . Bury be rescue by a supporter ' group , and Macclesfield by a local businessman . both be go concern today . I gently point out that Bury FC be allow to collapse . they be expel from the league and they lose their football share . I know acutely from my own family experience that supporter continue to gather at the gate every Saturday because of that drumbeat of a ritual that have mean so much to they and their family . I know that the hon . Gentleman care deeply about community , so surely he agree that that can never be allow to happen again . of course , I agree that Bury be a very sad incident . the right hon . Lady mention 60 club , I think , that have go into administration . my point be that I be not aware that any of they collapse to the extent that they be not go concern or not participate in league or non - league football . we know from the example of Bury , Macclesfield and AFC Wimbledon that it be possible for club to come back . supporter activism be not the only solution . rise — I will happily give way to the hon . member . perhaps he can name one club of the 60 who be no long live , and no long participate in competitive sport . I be genuinely astonish . the hon . Gentleman seem to be suggest that a football team can be strip to its very bone , and can limp along , barely alive but still be call a football team , and that should be good enough for fan . be he genuinely suggest that we should not have any more hope or ambition for the community club that make our town ? what the hon . Gentleman just say about bury football club be rather insulting to the fan who have keep it go . of course it be a football club . supporter activism be not the only solution when finance go wrong . when Villa be in trouble , we be quickly buy out by new owner . such be the draw of english football that new owner be almost always ready to step in and invest . even Birmingham City manage to find new owner two year ago . we be tell that we need a regulator to stop travesty such as the european super league , but again that be wrong . those english club that be tempt by the super league back off as soon as supporter make their view plain . the real motivation for the super league be european envy of the premier league , but we risk the strength of that league with this proposal . we be also tell that we need a regulator because football finance be unsustainable . everyone know of the issue cause by the leverage buy - out of Manchester United by the Glazer family . there be action that the sport can take to prevent such case , but debt itself be not necessarily a problem . spur have borrow to invest in their new stadium , for example , and many owner be willing to invest more in their team but have be block by financial fair play rule . those rule demonstrate why regulate football in this way be such a risk . they have protect the most establish club from challenge , prevent team from build on their success through investment , and cause all sort of perverse decision making . Premier league team be sell promise young player because they represent pure profit in the financial fair play system . player be sign on long - term contract to amortise the cost . some club have sell their ground to comply with the regulation . Chelsea sell their woman ' s team to a company belong to their owner for an inflated sum of £ 200 million , just to get around the rule . it be not difficult to see how a football regulator would lead to similar perverse outcome and a loss in the competitiveness of english team . just today , we have hear call from parliamentarian to extend the role of the regulator . we can imagine intervention on ticket price , kit sale and carbon footprint , and perhaps quota for english player , wage equality between man ' s and woman ' s team , the distribution of revenue , restriction on head the ball , and diversity mandate for youth scheme and the appointment of coach . I hear something say about human right check . football do not need this regulator . the vast revenue of the premier league and their distribution , and the extraordinary continuity of almost every professional club in the country , show that the sport be balance commerce and community well . our club be perform in a tough international market and the most competitive of league and cup , and they be survive and thrive as vital community institution . when it be not even clear what the problem be that we be try to fix , why would we risk something that be so cherish by so many ? I would first like to thank the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , and the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , for bring the Bill before the House today . I have it write down here somewhere that I should thank the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) for gallantly come forward on this issue before the election , when he support the Bill , but I be flabbergast ; to think that I come in here this afternoon to thank he , when he have change his mind completely ! what will Dame Tracey Crouch be think , watch this on her television ? she will be utterly ashamed , appalled and disgusted . she do an incredible amount of work to bring this Bill to the Chamber . she speak to the Football Supporters Association and to every organisation she could to try to get to people ' s true feeling in her work on the Football Governance Bill . I would love the right hon . member for Daventry to explain what he say about this chap who be be appoint as regulator . the Conservatives want to kill the Bill because of that . that be absolute nonsense , man , and the Tories and the Government understand that . they just say what they do for the sake of oppose a fantastic Bill . surely the hon . Gentleman understand that across all sport , political interference be frown on , and have consequence for team across the nation . surely he agree that the independence of the regulator be paramount . I think I agree with that , but from what I have hear from my hon . and right hon . friend , the propose independent regulator be on a list that they receive from the Tory Government . this bloke who everyone on the Tory Benches have hammer be on a list propose by the Tories — indicate dissent . of course he be . he be on the list , and there be other people on the list who be Tory donor . this fantastic Bill , which will give a lot of comfort to football supporter , be be oppose by the official Opposition because of one individual be appoint . he be obviously the good man for the job . the way I measure it be this : the louder the Tories scream and the more opposition they give to anything we say , the well it be , so I congratulate the right hon . Gentleman . the louder he shout , the well . this be the good the Labour Government could do . let we hope that this individual be welcome with open arm . he have a hell of a job to do to make sure that football supporter in this country be actually listen to — and it be the football supporter ' game . not so very many year ago , the rich and the elite try to steal the work man ' s game in Europe . they try to take it abroad , without any consultation with the fan who pay for season ticket . football supporter absolutely love the club , and they be greatly insult by the rich and the elite who be try to take away their tradition , their culture , and their history , because that be what that be . football be not just a religion , as my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) say ; it be much more than that . this Bill go a long way to support fan up and down the country and give they that bit of reassurance that the Government have their back . if you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , as a lifelong Liverpool supporter , I would like to congratulate Liverpool and Arne slot on win the premier league in Arne ' s first season as manager . this be my first season in Parliament , and I hope to follow in his footstep , but I do not know what the parliamentary equivalent of win the premier league be . I welcome this Bill , and I commend the Government and the Secretary of State for stand up to the opposition to it , from the Tories and from the football industry . I note the recent comment from one of the Chelsea owner , who feel it be hard to " appreciate the need " for a regulator . as an overseas owner of an English football club , he might not see the need , but I can assure he that football fan who have to pay increasingly extortionate ticket price to see premier league game do see the need . two of my nephew be lucky enough to see Liverpool win the premiership yesterday , but they have to pay over £ 50 for the privilege , and Liverpool be more sensitive to fan pressure on ticket price than most . attend a premier league game be beyond the mean of most fan , especially if they want to share that experience with family member . there be a desperate need to introduce an affordable ticket model . there be much to be learn from the German Bundesliga on that , despite our different ownership model . the current model of regulation be not work for the fan , or for the long - term interest of the club . if professional football club be treat like any other business , most would go bust tomorrow as their loan be call in . I agree wholeheartedly with all that the hon . Member have to say . will he join I in congratulate Blackburn Rovers on their outstanding community work , especially to support young boy and girl from all background in football ? their commitment to inclusivity and development at grassroots level be truly commendable . I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s comment , and I pay tribute to the work of Blackburn Rovers in their community . we be probably all aware of the example of Everton and Manchester United . both be up to their ear in debt while either building or plan to build stadium that cost between £ 750 million and £ 1 billion . if we look low down the league , the sum be still eye - watering . York City lose £ 235 , 000 last season , Salford City lose £ 5 . 3 million and Stockport County lose £ 7 million . it be difficult to see how , at some stage , without regulation , more and more club will not simply go to the wall . the financial precarity in football be such that it leave the club open to bad actor seize on their financial vulnerability to offer a route to potential success . I be , of course , refer to dirty money and the pernicious practice of sportswashe by dubious owner who see club ownership as a pr vehicle to airbrush their misdeed and human right abuse to reconstruct their reputation and exert geopolitical influence . it be deeply regretful that this odious and morally corrupting practice have be allow to establish a foothold in our game since Roman Abramovich come to England as the owner of Chelsea football club with dirty money from Russia . he be find to have fund or donate over £ 100 million to illegal settlement expansion in the west bank . the other issue I want to raise be around agent fee . in 2022 to 2023 , over £ 408 million be pay by Premier League club to agent and facilitator , and in the football league over £ 65 million be pay in agent fee . some agent be act on behalf of both the player and the club and receive remuneration from both . if that be not a conflict of interest or a potential bribe , I do not know what be . I strongly encourage the Government to look at this and try to stop as much money go to agent and get it back into grassroots football . football be more than a business ; it be one of our country ' s great export and a pillar of local and national identity . football would be nothing without its fan , and this strengthen Football Governance Bill will put fan firmly back at the centre of the game . for too long , financial instability have mean that loyal fan and whole community have risk lose their cherish club as a result of mismanagement and reckless spending . the previous fan - lead review be instigate follow three trigger point : the collapse of Bury FC , the coronavirus pandemic , which suspend football , and the european super league . the fan - lead review recommend in the light of those event and the structural issue in the pyramid that the Government should establish an independent regulator for football finance . I be delighted that our Labour Government have reintroduce and improve this Bill without delay to deliver on our commitment to football fan . the Bill ' s primary purpose be to ensure that english football be sustainable for the benefit of fan and the local community that football club serve . it will improve the sustainability of club finance , prevent rogue owner and director , and strengthen the voice of fan . this legislation will protect our football pyramid for future generation . the independent football regulator will have three main objective : club financial soundness , systemic financial resilience and the safeguarding of club heritage . the propose regulatory activity be pretty standard — it be a light - touch regulator . the improvement that our Labour Government have make to the Bill include club provide effective engagement with their supporter on change to ticket price and any proposal to relocate their ground . the regulator will be give a remit to include parachute payment to be consider through any backstop mechanism when consider finance across the game . the requirement to consider Government foreign and trade policy have be ditch , which be appropriate , and the regulator will ensure that club democratically elect fan representative for the club to engage with , which be right . we must have that clear commitment to improve equality , diversity and inclusion within the game . I be therefore gobsmacke when I hear the thoroughly disappointing and embarrassing amendment from the official Opposition in the name of the shadow Culture Secretary , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , to decline to give the Bill a second reading . as a member of the Bill Committee , he well know that there be genuine consensus on the Bill . it be fundamentally the same Bill with just a few change , and I do not understand why he do not support they . as have be mention , the former Member for Chatham and Aylesford Dame Tracey Crouch work so hard on the fan - lead review . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not ; I have only four minute . I remind the shadow Secretary of State what he say on that last day of Committee when unfortunately the previous Bill do not make it to wash - up . he say , " I genuinely think that this be an excellent Bill " and " a good Bill to crack on with , because it be important for the future of football and , crucially , for the future of football fan " . – – [ Official Report , Football Governance Bill Public Bill Committee , 23 April 2024 ; c . 244 . ] by decline to give the Bill a second reading , the Conservatives be now oppose great financial sustainability across the football pyramid , the tackling of rogue owner , great fan engagement and club heritage protection . it be a disgrace that they be not support the Bill , but I support it wholeheartedly . I want to focus on the distribution of revenue through the pyramid . Thornbury and Yate be a largely rural constituency with no league club , but it do have a number of club with passionate supporter in step four to seven — otherwise know as level eight to 11 of the man ' s football pyramid — as well as team in level five and 10 of the woman ' s pyramid . I have already have the pleasure of watch Tytherington Rocks and Yate Town . I congratulate Yate on clinch the southern league division one south title on Saturday . I wish they well in the premier division . Tyrone Mings play for Yate before he play in the premier league and for England , and he illustrate one reason why investment in the grassroot be so important . the benefit go far wider , though . for supporter , it can be an affordable way to watch football and feel a connection with their community , and many of they contribute to their club through volunteering . player of all ability have a chance to find a level at which they can play , with all the health and wellbeing benefit that football bring , as well as the opportunity to progress to the professional game for the most talented . the wide community benefit be community outreach programme and fan use local service and shop . sadly , although there be great wealth at the top of the game , in recent year the share of revenue make its way even to football league team have decrease , never mind to grassroots team such as those in my constituency . grassroots team be outside the scope of the propose regulator , and I feel that be a miss opportunity . the issue that keep non - league manager awake at night be more likely to be fundraise drive , or the difficulty of secure finance for ground upgrade . make a ground safe at the next level up can be a real challenge when a club can not secure funding . that have prevent at least one local club from take up its rightful place . it would be fair to say that football have give I long period of resilience - building intersperse with moment of sheer joy — an experience common to many supporter . the Bill have the potential to ensure that those emotion be tie to action on , rather than off , the pitch . I be astonish that some people be try to pretend that everything be currently fine . I would not be so blas é , as an Oxford United fan who live through the Maxwell year , which include his bizarre proposal to merge the club with read FC and the entire first team be put up for sale after his death . we can not rely on the benevolence of owner in what be a cutthroat business . if we be to make football in this country truly sustainable , it must be do from the ground up . I urge the Minister to think again about the scope of the regulator to ensure fair funding throughout the pyramid . I thank the Secretary of State for introduce the Bill to Parliament and building on the great work of former MP Dame Tracey Crouch . I be sure that Dame Tracey be , like I , absolutely bewilder by the new - find opposition of the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , to the Bill — unbelievable . I congratulate Lower Breck , a fantastic non - league football club in my constituency , on win a thrilling game on Saturday to reach the play - off final of the north - west county premier league . it would of course be remiss of I not to mention the historic achievement of my beloved Liverpool football club , who yesterday win an incredible 20th league title . I thank Arne Slot , the team and staff at LFC for that wonderful achievement of put our club back on the perch , and for give all Red supporter a day — and a night — that will live long in the memory . the long - await Football Governance Bill represent an opportunity to fix the game once and for all , but I will touch on three area where I feel we could strengthen the Bill for all who play and watch the beautiful game . we need a Bill that will tackle the pricing - out of working - class supporter . of those announce , the majority of price for 2025 - 26 have be freeze at premier league club , but that have only happen follow a concerted and co - ordinate effort by fan group , lead by the Football Supporters ' Association . I commend the supporter who have drive that campaign — so many group and people deserve a mention . for fan to put aside sectarian difference and campaign in such a way show the level of concern about ticket price . it have be a privilege to stand alongside many of those supporter . despite the news that price be frozen , the reality be that those price be already too high , especially for young fan . thousand of young working - class supporter be price out of Anfield yesterday , as some ticket be go for over £ 1 , 000 . it remain of great concern that we be see a gradual reduction in season ticket and general admission number in favour of a grow number of hospitality and one - off admission , at prohibitive cost for the regular fan . in 2025 , the Premier League ' s global and domestic commercial and broadcast revenue have go up by 17 % to £ 12 . 25 billion . there be no income problem in football ; it be an expenditure and mismanagement problem that need to be address . I therefore ask the Secretary of State to consider amendment to ensure that the new independent football regulator have involvement in ticket pricing , include by report on that activity in its " state of football " report and ensure that fan have genuine input into their club ' s ticket policy through the structured engagement that it will oversee , and that the IFR undertake a review of concessionary rate across the game to ensure that loyal young and old fan be not price out of their sport . we can never allow the greed of some owner who have no idea about the importance of this working - class game to the community it should always serve . today , on Workers ' Memorial Day , it be apt to remind the House that evidence show that former professional footballer be four to five time more likely to develop dementia or other neurodegenerative condition . football family for Justice be now look to Parliament to intervene , and I hope the Minister will listen to its call and look at the amendment . finally , it would be remiss of I not to mention how PSR — profitability and sustainability rule — be perceive by many to have unfairly target certain club , include the blue half of my city in the form of Everton . many Evertonians believe that the Premier League ' s handling of their case represent an abuse of process . they would like to see an amendment pass to this Bill , the Everton clause , give the new regulator a backstop power to require the Premier League to rerun a PSR process if there be concern about its fairness . as a minimum , supporter of all club should have the ability to appeal to the regulator to ensure fair and due process in PSR case to prevent any perception of unbalanced treatment . football be not just an important cultural institution in Britain , but one of our great success and our most successful export . I accept that the Government have only the good of intention in want to set up an independent regulator and I be sure Labour Members genuinely believe this Bill will achieve good thing , but I fear they be mistaken . I fear that the regulator will hinder growth in a sector that should be power our economy forward instead of be hold back by red tape and political interference . the Prime Minister say he want to reduce the number of quango yet have set up 41 new one in his first eight month in office . that be because this Government ' s first instinct be always to regulate first and ask question later . how long will it be until an independent cricket regulator be propose , and perhaps rugby after that — we could have two , one for union and the other for league ? I believe we should make a different choice : we should accept that the state already do too many thing in our country and do many of those thing not very well . I believe that we should limit the role of the state to a small number of area and demand that it perform those role well . this Bill threaten the future health of English football . labour ' s change to the remit of the regulator will impose a significant regulatory burden , which will be feel particularly harshly by low league club . the ultimate cost will be bear by the fan . ticket price , already rise on average by 7 % this season , will rise far . compliance cost for club be estimate at £ 35 million ; that be money that could be spend on football instead of compliance . be that really a good use of money ? the operational cost of the regulator be estimate to be £ 97 . 9 million , all fund through a new levy . small club will struggle under the burden . what the Government be say be that they want to take £ 130 million out of the game and spend it on administration . that mean that the cost of Labour will yet again be feel by work people , despite what the Government claim . I be fully aware that it be a Conservative Government who launch the fan - lead review into football governance chair by Dame Tracey Crouch . that review make target recommendation for an independent regulator , focus solely on financial stability and protect club heritage . the previous Football Governance Bill , introduce last year , try to strike that careful balance . while I would have have question about that Bill , I have even more significant concern about this one . that be because labour ' s version be a different beast . it have expand the regulator ' s remit to cover parachute payment , solidarity payment , fan engagement mandate , new spending control , and unnecessary diversity , equality and inclusion reporting . this Bill will take £ 130 million out of football and spend it on administration . it will expand the role of the state into a sector that be commercially successful and where that intervention be unnecessary . it be more Government at a time when we need less , and that be why I shall oppose this Bill tonight . order . as hon . member can see , a number of member still wish to speak , so the time limit will be reduce to three minute after the next speaker , Jon Pearce . on Saturday , at 12 . 30 pm , I and thousand of other Derby County fan will be rack with nerve as the club face Stoke City , hope to avoid relegation from the championship yet again . the fact that we have be through such occasion so often over the year will not make it any easy to endure . we have hear from supporter of many other club , from Charlton , Blackpool , Sheffield Wednesday , Reading and too many to mention , but here be my case for why I believe that Derby County provide the good example of why we need this Football Governance Bill — finally , a competition we can win . any good football anecdote should obviously start with Brian Clough . have win we the league for the first time in our history in 1971 - 72 , he be sack less than a year later by the club ' s chairman , to the horror of our club ' s supporter . that lead to protest in the street and a threatened player ’ strike . it be fair to say that there be no minimum standard of fan engagement back then , as the board of director hide in the boardroom and relieve themselves in champagne bucket to avoid the fan ' protest . a league championship in 1974 - 75 aside , year of financial mismanagement lead we to drop down into the third tier and face a wind - up order in the High Court . we be save by a certain Robert Maxwell , a once honourable Member of this place , although in hindsight he be not a fit and proper person to run any business , and certainly not a community asset like a football club . he ultimately lose interest , stop come to game and stop invest in the club . all the while , he be defraud the Mirror Group pensioner . in retrospect , Derby County get off rather lightly . skip forward to October 2003 , when " the three amigo " buy the club . John Sleightholme , Jeremy Keith and Steve Harding buy the club for £ 1 each , but they have no money of their own and very quickly — not for the last time — they sell the club ' s stadium , Pride Park , and then charge we £ 1 million to rent it to stay there . the requirement in the Bill for club to seek pre - approval from the independent regulator for the sale or relocation of their stadium be absolutely essential . it be at that point that I first join the Rams Trust , the supporter ’ group that campaign for a strong voice for supporter in the decision - make process at Derby County . such trust play a vital role in club up and down the country . the tireless effort of fan to scrutinise the activity of the management of the club lead to the conviction of four people . Maxwell and the three amigo would have pass any fit and proper person test , which be why it be so important that this Bill introduce both a minimum standard of fan engagement and a club licensing regime , to help ensure a more consistent approach in how club be run and club finance be monitor . I be also delighted that parachute payment be include , because they have be the driver of our most recent dalliance with financial ruin . we desperately try to get into the premier league , compete against club with parachute payment , ultimately lead we to a 21 - point deduction , relegation and near extinction again . the club be save by a local businessman , but not without a dalliance with the fraudulent activity of somebody who be try to buy we . the truth be that football — and Derby County in particular — be constantly threaten by fraudster and by terrible ownership that be ruin our community . this Bill will begin to stop some of the damage that be be do to club up and down the country , and I will be support it today . supporter of low league football club know the score : relegation all but confirm , millionaire financier abandon , desperately cling on to former glory , leaky at the back , midfield absent , not much go on up top , leadership completely out of their depth — but enough about the conservative party . despite the Conservatives ' attempt to turn this debate into a game of two face , I have a serious point . in 2008 , business partner Yasuaki Kagami and George Synan become majority shareholder at Plymouth Argyle , which have be shortlist to host game at the 2018 world cup , have England ' s bid be successful . it be not , of course , so their interest in the club collapse . finance be withhold and Argyle , with one eye on the premier league , be relegate from the championship to league one and then league two , in the space of three year . they be on the brink of insolvency before they be rescue by James Brent . english football club such as Argyle should never become cash cow for vulture such as Kagami and Synan . our large club should never become money launder operation for oligarch tie to murderous dictator . our football club be the beat heart of our community , around which local economy thrive ; identity , friendship and rivalry be forge ; and our culture be export . I broadly welcome this Bill for the regulation of ownership that it will introduce , but there be no mention of slavery or human right in the ownership test . will the Government answer whether they consider those issue important in the fit and proper ownership of club ? I have one more point . it be unfortunate that the Government vote down an amendment from the Lords that would have reduce gambling advertisement and sponsorship in english football . there be an obvious opportunity here to protect our young people from a toxic industry that deliberately prey on the vulnerable . I do not often give too much credit to arsenal alumnus , but I know that Paul Merson would have want this . will the Government tell I why they vote down that amendment ? football club command a special place in the heart of their community and the heart of their fan . their continued success be key to the identity and community spirit of their area , and local club bring a great deal of economic benefit . I know that be the case with my team , Southend United — the Shrimpers — in the heart of Southend and in my constituency . over recent year , under the former owner , Ron Martin , we nearly lose our club . financial mismanagement leave the club unable to meet its obligation . it be put up for sale , but in the meantime creditor queue up at the door wait to be pay . the club be take to court , have numerous deadline and point deduction impose on it by the national league and face a winding - up petition due to debt owe to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . what be we talk about risk the loss of here ? we be talk about a club that be form in 1906 and that start its life on the current Roots Hall site before move to the Kursaal during the first world war , before finally find its way back to Roots Hall in 1955 to a ground build almost exclusively by the supporter ' club under the leadership of Sid Broomfield . it be a community asset to so many . it be a place where people come to share a common purpose , a place for community engagement and , for some , a place that get they out of social isolation . there be then the social impact of the club , estimate by the Shrimpers Trust to be worth £ 10 . 3 million annually . in one of its publication , the trust draw the following conclusion : " fan be not customer ; we be the key stakeholder in the football club … football club be not business , they be cultural heritage asset bear of and represent by their community " . I be proud to see that this Bill tackle those issue head on . the Shrimpers Trust welcome its provision , while have some sensible suggestion to improve they far . I be glad to see that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport have say that she will look at those in Committee . it be disappointing that the Tories want to kill this Bill , despite it be in their manifesto . fan be clear that they be not happy about that . a statement release just today by the Shrimpers Trust thank member on both side of the House for the work that they have do so far , but it also say : " we urge those party to continue to work together to progress this legislation and … to listen to the fan as the game ' s primary stakeholder , rather than be sway by out - of - touch figure with vested interest " . I welcome this Bill . I welcome the opportunity to contribute to the debate on this important piece of legislation and what it will mean for football fan in Hertford and Stortford , thousand of whom travel week in , week out to premier league game in London , to which we be ably link by our rail service . before I turn to the specific measure in the Bill , I would like to touch on why football be so important to community such as mine . since my election in July last year , it have be a pleasure to visit and watch a number of the non - league club across Hertford and Stortford , and to meet some of the manager , coach , player and volunteer who keep they go and bring our community together . so many player at non - league club such as those go on to much large team in the future , too . we can not overestimate the importance of grassroots football in our community , and I pay tribute to Bishop ' s Stortford football club , Sawbridgeworth Town FC , Hertford Town football club and Ware football club . I particularly pay tribute to Bishop ' s Stortford and Sawbridgeworth , which have just avoid relegation in the late season . I would also like to briefly update the House on the 93rd birthday of John Staines . some member may remember that I have raise the topic of Hertford Town football club ' s drive to get 1 , 000 people down to their game against Flackwell Heath to mark John ' s birthday follow more than 60 year of dedicated support for the club , 30 of they as a volunteer . it be heartwarme to see our community turn out to recognise John ' s contribution to the club , and I be pleased to report that we see just over 1 , 000 people turn out in Hertford to do so . it have become apparent in recent year that we need to protect our game , and I applaud the Bill ' s aim of protect and promote the sustainability of english football in the interest of fan and the local community that football club serve . I welcome its core objective of ensure sound club finance and systemic financial resilience and safeguard club heritage . in particular , the creation of an independent football regulator be most welcome , deliver on this Government ' s manifesto commitment to protect club and empower fan . in the time I have leave , I want to mention one quick point that be raise with I by some of our non - league club ahead of this debate , which I would be grateful if the Secretary of State could address . club have highlight the disparity in contract regulation between non - league and professional football ; currently , non - league player can be offer a full - time contract only at the age of 18 , while in professional football player can be contract at 17 . to ensure fairness to our grassroot club , will the Secretary of State consider equalise the age at which non - league club and professional club can offer full - time contract to player in the future ? it have be my absolute pleasure to spend time speak to our local non - league club . I know that our resident be immensely passionate about football , and it be fantastic that this Bill be be bring forward to put our fan right at the heart of that great game . I declare an interest as a proud season ticket holder of Hartlepool United and — I be tell — the first member of Hartlepool United Supporters Trust to be elect to represent our town as its MP . as we have hear today , football be not just a game ; it be a vital part of our community and our identity — it be the thing that make a town such as Hartlepool truly a place . the importance of this Bill , therefore , can not be overstate . it be about put fan back at the heart of our football club , where they rightfully belong , because for a town such as Hartlepool , our football club mean everything . as Pools fan know , the establishment of an independent regulator to ensure that club operate with integrity and accountability really matter . the Bill will create a new owner and director test , ensure that those in charge of our club be suitable custodian of their history , their heritage and their place within our community — pool fan absolutely know that that matter . owner come and go , but fan remain in our football club , and that be what we must protect . I believe that the new regulator have a chance to act on the campaign and priority of fan . as a proud supporter of a national league club who sincerely hope that we leave that league — in the right direction — as soon as possible , I propose that the newly establish regulator focus on and champion the 3up campaign , which be be lead by the National League . that campaign call for the promotion of three club from the national league to the football league , align it with the rest of the football pyramid . finally , as the new regulator lead discussion with the Premier League regard the redistribution of football income , it must ensure that the need of the national league be not overlook during that process . it must use its new power to intervene if necessary in the distribution of revenue if it become clear that the national league be be ignore . redistribution of the vast wealth that exist in football club to place like Hartlepool be critical not only for the club but for the community they serve . we can foster growth in every part of our country if we get this right . our football club , community and fan be at the forefront of this legislation . if do right , it have the ability to return football to what it always have be and should be : for the fan , by the fan — once more , the people ' s game . it be a big week for Derby County , as we fight valiantly to stay in the championship . there be no guarantee of who will rise and fall in the football league , but we trust that our club themselves will go on . to be able to speak in support of a piece of legislation that give more control and certainty back to our community be a great privilege . our club ' s recent financial struggle be part of the reason we have this Bill . in 2021 , the heartbeat of the club — the fan — have no say in or influence on the financial mismanagement that lead to the club go into administration and the 21 - point deduction we see as a penalty . we end up relegate to league one . the RamsTrust , one of our fan association , set out that the most important provision of the Bill — certainly those that will resonate most powerfully with supporter of Derby County — be those that seek to improve financial resilience in the game . the RamsTrust ask local mp to support the Bill , so I be glad that all Derby and derbyshire constituency have Labour mp to help we get this Bill through , despite opposition from the Conservatives . I stand with fan today , as I do when I march alongside over 10 , 000 fan to Pride Park on 30 January 2022 , carry banner and singe in solidarity to demand that the club be save . it be save by local fan and businessman David Clowes , after a disastrous attempt to buy the club by Chris Kirchner , who be sentence to jail for fraud last summer . my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) rightly say at the time that there be no clear example of the urgent need for well governance of football in this country and to protect football club . I hope that some good can come from that terrible time for Derby County fan and that the Bill will make it less likely for such a situation to happen to other . the Bill be so important in give fan a loud voice . my brilliant staff member Sarah Chambers already use she impressively loud singing voice to sing Derby County song louder than anyone I know , include in the office . this Bill be for the fan on cold terrace and in the stand , the volunteer and mascot and those in the wide football community , the coach run the grassroots team that our child play in and the parent who run the line in all weather . I hope we can all support the Bill and make it strong still . I wish Derby County every success in its final crucial match of the season on Saturday . up the Rams ! fan of read football club , include the many in my constituency , will be anxious as they wait for the final game of the season . we be neck and neck with Leyton Orient , and a good result against Barnsley on Saturday — apology to the Minister for Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) — will send they to the play - off . any football fan know these jitter ; they be an essential part of what make the beautiful game so beautiful . the sad reality be that read fan be anxious for another , entirely avoidable reason : the stranglehold that their absent owner Dai Yongge have on their club . I will not rehearse it all now ; I speak about it in a Westminster Hall debate a few week back , and we have hear a lot tonight about the state of the club . however , with the EFL now finally force Dai Yongge to sell up , with a deadline of 5 May , Royals fan really be nervous . the Bill will come too late for read fan , but it be so important , because what have happen to reading should never be allow to happen to another club . I want to take this opportunity to praise the Supporters ' trust at Reading , which have be fantastic in stand with the club and fan throughout this process . I thank the Secretary of State for meet I and colleague to discuss the plight of Reading , and I thank the Minister for meet with we and staff . Staff welcome the Bill , as have fan group up and down the country , which make it all the more shocking that the Tories have u - turn and be propose to vote against it tonight . what the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) say — that it be all okay because no club have be lose irrevocably — be an indictment , and there be one party that have be completely silent tonight . where be the Reform mps ? why be they not in the Chamber stand up for the club in their constituency ? it be not good enough . I will quickly touch on three aspect where the Bill could go far and do what I hope it will : ensure that what happen to reading be never repeat . the first be the protection of community asset . the Bill rightly protect stadium , but it would be great to see more action on other community asset , include training ground . the second be about give fan a say in their club . it be so important that the Bill be strong , so that bad - faith club be not allow to get away with simply pay lip service to these matter . finally , it be so important that a fit owner test be include in the Bill , but we need to work out what will happen when bad owner be already in post or slip through the net . I recognise the huge complexity here , but read really be a cautionary tale . from read again : Matt Rodda . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) . I speak in favour of the Bill , which I hope will prevent what happen to our club , read FC , from ever happen to any other english club . I realise that time be short , but I want to put some of the key fact across in my brief remark . reading be one of the old club in the EFL . it have a proud history , with two spell in the premiership and glorious cup run . reading hold the record for the most point ever score in the championship : 106 point in one season . it be also a family club , with a strong track record in woman ' s football . sadly , all that have be put at risk by really , really irresponsible ownership . this have lead to point deduction and relegation , threaten the very future of the club . read fan have have to suffer an impossible emotional rollercoaster for more than three year . we hope there be now some light at the end of the tunnel . to explain our story , I should say that read , like many other english club , be own by a responsible local owner who have the good interest of the club at heart . I pay tribute to Sir John Madejski and all those who work with he , and to other Reading player and manager . Dai Yongge buy the club in 2017 , and while thing start out well , with investment in the new training ground , that quickly change and Mr Dai appear to be lose interest in the club . he be subject to wind - up petition and fine after a series of financial issue , which lead to severe point deduction and the club be relegate to league one . thing go from bad to bad in the 2023 - 24 season , and it seem that the future of club be in doubt . thankfully , Mr Dai finally announce that he be go to sell , but the process be draw out for more than a year and a half . as I know from deal with the EFL , the current rule mean that there be little the league can do — one sale even fall at the final hurdle last summer , to the agony of fan . despite that , our young team have perform brilliantly , and there be hope of we reach the play - off , as my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell say . it have be an emotional rollercoaster , and I again praise fan , but I would not want to wish this on any other club in England , or indeed anywhere in the world . I urge member from across the House to rethink their position and consider how an effective regulator would have prevent this awful situation , which we have have to suffer for far too long . I be pleased to support the Bill , which will protect our football club and the heritage of our game . my club Burton Albion , the Brewers , which play in league one — that position will hopefully be secure under the stewardship of Gary Bowyer — be fully in support of the Bill . we be look forward to our match against the Secretary of State ' s Wigan side ; I know that she will want to wish we luck . it be fitting that one of the key measure in the Bill be design to protect the heritage of english football , give that Burton Albion will mark its 75th anniversary on 5 July . Dudley FC , which be one of the old team in the west midland , be so important and integral to the community . do my hon . friend agree that we need funding through the entire football pyramid , and not just for the elite ? absolutely . our club be form at Burton town hall , with the name Burton Albion choose through overwhelming support on a show of hand . from the humble beginning of non - league football , in 2016 the Brewers would go on to be promote to the championship . it be a remarkable achievement for a club root firmly in the local community , build not on vast fortune but on good management , the strong leadership of Ben Robinson and loyal support . the club touch the life of so many local people , and like so many Burtonians , it be a key part of my family story , too . my very first football game be at Eton Park with my dad , and one of my first job be pull pint behind the bar in the ground , which set I up for politic , as I serve fan in the away end , so I get use to deal with difficult people , like Derby fan . the town fondly remember the FA cup in 2006 , when the mighty Brewers take on Sir Alex Ferguson ' s Manchester United , and despite Rooney and Ronaldo come on in the 58th minute , they still could not stop the Brewers . like thousand of Burtonians , as a nine - year - old , I make the trip to the rematch at Old Trafford , and come back on the coach have lose 5 - 0 . it be not to be , but it be a proud part of our town ' s story . these memory live on in our town and show the power of football to bring people together . that be key to this Bill , which recognise that football club be not business to be bring , trade or asset - strip at will ; they be live part of our community . improve fan engagement be a key part of the Bill . BAFC already work hard on that through the fan advisory board and the Burton Albion Community Trust . the recently form Brewers Union add a splash of black and amber , and loud cheer , wherever the brewer go . the Pirelli would not be what it be without the fan , and Burton Albion already go way beyond what be require in this Bill . the work of the Burton Albion Community Trust , which be a strong focus of Ben Robinson as chairman , continue to touch so many life on and off the pitch , from vaccinate local people to mental health support within our community . that be not to mention the grassroots team that the club support across Burton and Uttoxeter , of which there be too many to mention . the fabric of our town would be totally change be it not for Burton Albion . I be privileged to represent such a community - root club that uplift live every day . this Bill protect club like Burton Albion , it strengthen the future of the national game , and it put community back where they belong : at the heart of football . up the Brewers . for place like Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes , football be more than just a game ; it be a source of pride , identity and belong . whether it be the roar at Blundell Park or the celebration at the Linden Club , football unite our community in a way few other thing can . that be why my local club and I warmly welcome the step that this Labour Government have take to strengthen the Football Governance Bill and ensure the future of our national game . football be nothing without its fan . the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) be not in his place , but he have previously be on record say that this be " a good Bill to crack on with " . he say it have be pursue " crucially , for the future of football fan . they be the one we have be think about through the whole process . " – – [ Official Report , Football Governance Public Bill Committee , 23 May 2024 ; c . 244 . ] what on earth have happen ? the Conservatives say it be another Bill , but it be not . it be their Bill with a few addition . the Bill have not be change . they have shift their position and it be a shameful situation . by put supporter back at the heart of decision making , this Bill honour the passion and loyalty that sustain club up and down the country . I thank my Member of Parliament for give way . she talk about strengthen the Bill even far , but do she acknowledge that the fan at Blundell Park would not blame a supposedly independent regulator , like Ofwat , Ofgem or whatever , but would blame the politician , if the regulator make a decision about potential investment in the club that they do not like ? the hon . Gentleman will know that politician be blame for just about everything anyway , so it will not make much difference . this be a very tightly draft Bill , and the role of the regulator be detail in it . that be what the regulator will have to follow , and those be the parameter that have be set . while the very top of english football enjoy huge success , the financial foundation for many club in low league be far too fragile . bad ownership , financial mismanagement and unfair wealth distribution have push too many proud institution to the brink . this Labour Government be take action . we be deliver on our manifesto promise — and , in fact , the Conservatives ' manifesto promise — to establish a regulator to protect club , ensure sustainability and empower fan , in stark contrast to the Conservatives , who be now anti - regulation , prefer the continuation of the current wobbly , unfair system . they be take a hand - off approach , reverse their previous policy and back the elite premiership club at the expense of those in low league . our local club be adore , and with good reason . we have so much to celebrate . Cleethorpes Town FC have make my community proud , have be crown champion with three game to spare , and secure their well - deserve promotion . meanwhile , Grimsby Town be push hard for the play - off — although I remember that I say the same thing during the Westminster Hall debate , and then we lose , so we be still try . I hope that member will give we a cheer on Saturday if we get through . the success of these club be not limit to the pitch : initiative such as Grimsby Town Foundation generate more than £ 4 million in social value in our area , which show that club be not business but engine of hope for community . we must never again allow they to be treat as disposable asset . they belong to the fan , and to the town that they represent . the Bill introduce the protection that be need if local club be to thrive and continue to bring enjoyment for generation to come . in my constituency , we be lucky to have Mansfield Town as our local club . the Bill will give we an independent football regulator , and new rule to protect our club and empower fan . pro - growth and light - touch , it will help to ensure that all club throughout the football pyramid thrive . while football be certainly an incredible sport , full of excitement , it have the power to do more than just provide entertainment . our local football club be often a focal point for our community , and it be important for we to nurture and support that in our constituency . I be pleased to say that Mansfield Town do just that . I wholeheartedly support their work , which help to break down barrier to opportunity , and as a local MP , I will do whatever I can to support their civic - minded aspiration . I hope that Mansfield Town will continue to go from strength to strength over the come year . I will be proud to vote for a Bill that deliver on our manifesto commitment to establish the independent football regulator and a new set of rule to protect club , empower fan , and keep club at the heart of their community . football would be nothing without its fan , and this strengthen Bill will put they firmly back at the centre of the game . the fan , the board and the management of Mansfield Town football club have tell I that they welcome the Government ' s commitment to deliver this important legislation , and I thank the Secretary of State for bring it to the House and give we all an opportunity to support it . in my constituency , we be and will always be proud of our club , Morecambe FC . just one week ago , Morecambe lose a match and , unfortunately , confirm our relegation . I be gutte , but I know that we will come back fighting , because resilience run through our town , our fan and our club . in Morecambe , we have the good fan in the country . when we go to Chelsea , we overwhelm the home fan a little bit . I do not think they be expect that level of noise , energy and passion from a club that go on to get beat 5 - 0 . the truth be that Morecambe FC and its fan have be badly let down by poor ownership , which have damage our club . throughout the difficulty , the Shrimps fan ' trust and the board have do an incredible job of hold the club together . they have show what it really mean to care about a club . despite their effort , they have be keep at arm ' s length while ownership talk drag on , leave the club stick in limbo and go from transfer window to transfer window . that be why the Secretary of State and I directly promise Morecambe before the election that we would deliver an independent football regulator . this Bill , which deliver the regulator , will strengthen suitability test for owner and director . it will introduce a licensing system to make sure that club be run responsibly . it will give fan a proper voice in how their club be manage . these be crucial step to fix english football . this Bill start in the last Parliament and be bring forward by a Conservative MP , Dame Tracey Crouch . it have cross - party support but , surprisingly , the Conservatives seem to have spin on a dime . their leader say that introduce a football regulator would be " a waste of money " , but one only have to look at the wide social , cultural and economic benefit of football to know that this be simply not true . grassroots football get people into the game . on matchday , football bring people to pub , caf é s and shop in the area . club often provide facility for school , youth team and community group . in my constituency , we have the Morecambe FC Community Foundation , which work with young people , elder , veteran and other . it be a really important local organisation . club such as Morecambe be part of the fabric of our town , and part of what give we our identity . they bring pride , passion and unbeatable matchday tradition , and in Morecambe we bring the good pie to football . let we back this Bill ' s sensible , light - touch regulation , and back club and their fan , who mean so much to so many town . I congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State on bring forward this Bill . my love affair with football start with World Cup Italia in 1990 : David Platt volley the ball into the net in Bologna , give we a 1 - 0 win over Belgium ; John Motson ' s fantastic commentary ; Gazza ' s tear ; and Gary Lineker say , " have a word " . I be stunned . thirty - five year later , I watch my resident Max Stokes ' s " Villa on Tour " video as he tour the country follow the Villa , and my life be more reflective of Colin Firth ' s character in " Fever Pitch " than an MP . why be this Bill so important ? frankly , despite the Conservatives not recognise it , the regulation and governance of football be not work . my football club , Aston Villa , almost have to sell car park to pay a bill to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs five or six year ago because of poor governance . the european super league , lead by the big six — or the big five and Spurs — try to ruin european qualification . during covid , we have the sight of premier league football club go with their begging bowl to the Government to get through , because they would not pay their own staff . we have have the collapse of Bury FC , and we have hear story about Reading — and other club be to follow . as someone who travel the football pyramid as a player , I can tell the House that Macclesfield Town do not exist anymore , so the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) be inaccurate in what he say . I be sure he do not mean to be , but Macclesfield Town go bust . Macclesfield FC go to the bottom of the pyramid , and it be a new club . football club be about more than just what happen in 90 minute on the pitch . they be where I spend time with my dad , and where it be still okay to hug and kiss stranger . my boy ' s first word be " Mama " , but I be never proud than when he say , " up the Villa ! " in come to the estate today , I almost fall foul of the security guard , Stuart , who say that we be not allow to wear offensive clothing — I be wear a Villa shirt . this Bill be important . it be a light - touch bill ; it be not major . neither the Secretary of State nor the regulator will be tell Unai Emery to buy Marcus Rashford , or tell Wes Edens to invest in the north stand , although I wish he would . the Bill meet the challenge that we face as an industry , as club and as community . it stop terrible thing , like Cardiff City have to wear red because their owner think it play well in China , or ask Wimbledon fan to go to Milton Keynes and lose their fa cup . this should have be a policy that unify both side of the House . I think Geoffrey Howe ' s cricket analogy apply to the way the poor shadow Secretary of State defend today . like Mrs Thatcher , he break his bat before he come out . this Bill enable Labour member to fulfil our manifesto commitment to make this the good place in the world to be a football fan . as outline by the Secretary of State , the Bill will put in place a new set of rule to protect club , empower fan and keep club where they belong — at the heart of their community . it be even more pleasing to be here after a successful trip to Wembley to see Crystal Palace overcome Aston Villa , with apology to my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) . however , it be particularly pleasing to hear Birmingham City fan provide a great rendition of " Glad all over " at their match the follow day . my long experience as a Crystal Palace fan , which have see the club go into administration twice in a little over 25 year — in 1999 and 2010 — have show I the need for change , but this be not really about the large club such as Palace . it be about the fact that the system be not work for club far down the pyramid , where the risk of takeover and abuse by malicious owner be even high . we have hear from member across the House about the club — reading , Bury , Southend , and the litany go on — that have be bring low by poor ownership . since 1992 , over 60 club have go into administration . notoriously , we have see club owner simply uproot club and move they around the country , and change badge and shirt colour without fan be able to prevent it . over my time as a fan and since be elect to represent Dartford in this place , I have see the power of football club , not just as sporting organisation , but as the vessel for community identity and aspiration . they be often the most important local institution that bind a community together , and that give a borough , town or city a sense of itself and of its potential . Dartford football club be an integral part of our town , have be found over 130 year ago by member of the Dartford work man ' s club and save by its fan in the early 1990 . I wish the manager , Ady Pennock , and the player the very good of luck in their play - off match on Wednesday against Cray Valley in their bid to return to national league south , where they belong . we all agree that football club must be solvent and well run , and every fan will dream of their club see success on the field , but they be and must remain so much more than company compete in a marketplace . that be why the protection and regulation provide by this Bill be so vital . I hope that all member of the House , for the sake of community up and down the country , will support the Bill tonight . football be more than a game , and our club be more than corporate asset . the game be part of our national identity and heritage — from jumper for goalpost to the local pub team , all the way up to the elite standard of the premier league . we rightly talk about the premier league , which be a fantastic export from this country , but in my speech I want to celebrate the English football league , which have also provide immense entertainment , as well as have social and cultural value for community up and down the country . it be home to some of the big club around the world , include the mighty Crewe Alexandra . who , for example , can forget Nick Powell ' s screamer for Crewe Alexandra against Cheltenham in the 2012 league two play - off final ? I be sure that the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) have not forget it , but if member want to look it up , I recommend that they do . it demonstrate perfectly why football truly be the great sport on the planet . it be unfortunate that I be make this speech merely day after Port Vale , our nearby rival , secured promotion to league one . I congratulate they on that achievement , but I can not say that I wish they well . our national game be about more than win trophy and sign world - class player . the game be part of the social fabric that bind our community together . it be the week in , week out trip to Gresty Road with family or friend , the few pint beforehand , and the buzz from singe your club ' s song on the terrace . as custodian of these tradition , we have a duty to ensure we secure a sustainable future for the game we know and love , not just for elite club but the entire football pyramid . that be why I recommend , as a key provision in the Bill , the independent football regulator , which will have at its heart these objective : the protection of club and cultural asset ; the empowerment of fan ; and financial sustainability for our beautiful game . I conclude by thank the Government for bring the Bill back to the House . I support the measure in it to safeguard and protect one of our big cultural institution . it be a pleasure to speak as the proud Member of Parliament for Rushcliffe , the home of Nottingham Forest football club . many will know that Forest fan have have a season to remember . it have be brilliant to watch the man ' s team perform so strongly in the premier league and I be hopeful that a place in Europe beckon , but we must also remember our woman ' s team . I congratulate they on their double success , lift both the FA woman ' s national league cup and the northern premier division . of course , there be also huge excitement this weekend as the man ' s team reach the FA cup semi - final . many local fan make the journey to Wembley and although the team be beat by Manchester City , a club with one of the deep squad in the world , Forest give a fantastic account of themselves . I be sure many neutral would have like the City goal to have be just a touch big — perhaps that be something the Minister can think about as part of the Bill ! it be a performance full of spirit and determination . I have no doubt that under the club ' s ambitious leadership team , it will build on that go forward . the club ' s commitment on and off the pitch have make our community in Rushcliffe immensely proud . football matter deeply to community like mine . it be about not just matchday but civic pride , shared memory , and a sense of belong that span generation and community . club like Nottingham Forest be part of our national story . who can forget Forest ' s win in Europe in 1979 and 1980 ? but these club be also part of the everyday fabric of place like Rushcliffe . with the prospect of Nottingham Forest be back in Europe , I can assure everybody that the contribution the game make to our local economy can not be overstate . that be why the Football Governance Bill matter so much . football have long be one of the UK ' s great success story — it be one of our great export , watch by billion around the world , generate job , investment and opportunity up and down the country — but too often we have see how fragile the foundation can be . that be why I think the establishment of a football regulator will change thing for good . it will protect the financial soundness of club , secure the systemic financial health of the football pyramid and safeguard the heritage that fan treasure . that be why I welcome the Bill . I applaud Ministers for bring it forward and I will back it wholeheartedly . my constituent in Gateshead have , by and large , be subject to a lot of dodgy owner in their time . the vast majority of my constituent be Newcastle fan . many people remember the Mike Ashley era : the grotesque nightmare for Newcastle fan of see their football stadium name the Sports Direct at St James ' Park Arena , or be sponsor by Wonga . even as a Sunderland fan , I find that pretty appalling . but Sunderland be not spare the nightmare of bad ownership . we have owner who use parachute payment — as chronicle in the Netflix nightmare show , " Sunderland ' Til I die " — to buy a football club . I be therefore delighted to hear that parachute payment be within the scope of the Bill . frankly , for I , that be a unique selling point of the Bill , not a downside . a lot of my constituent also support Gateshead , which have have challenge with ownership as well . in 2019 , Gateshead football club face a wind up order , and the club be preserve only thank to football fan include Neil Pinkerton , now Gateshead ' s chairman , and Gateshead Soul . I say a big thank you to they , because it be thank to Gateshead Soul and the current fan ownership of Gateshead football club that I still get to go to Gateshead match with my dad , and that my son might one day be able to come and watch Gateshead match with his dad . ultimately , that be what football and football club be about : a sense of place and community . Gateshead have face a huge number of challenge as a football club . somewhat infamously in the town , we be relegate in 1960 , the last time we be in the football league , but we be not relegate on the basis of sporting merit ; instead , we be vote out of the football league . although there be two team below we — Oldham and Hartlepool — it be Gateshead who be choose to be kick out of the football league . I be pleased to say that if Gateshead be successful in beat Southend this weekend and then progress through the play - off , we will hopefully have an opportunity this season to right 65 year of wrong and get back into the football league . however , it should never have happen in the first place . it be something that matter a great deal not just to I , but to my wide community . opposition member talk about how football club do not disappear , but I be afraid that be simply wrong . the Gateshead who be relegate , Gateshead AFC , disappear in the 1970 ; they be soon follow by Gateshead United , who also disappear in the 1970 . those football club do not exist any more . the current Gateshead FC be not the same football club as before . that be very important to I because my grandfather , Allen Forster , play for the original Gateshead in the 1950 . in the limited time I have leave , I hope the House will allow I to talk about he , because he be passionate about football . he be not only a professional footballer but , in his later year , the secretary of the Northumberland FA . my hon . friend the Members for Caerphilly ( Chris Evans ) and for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) have talk about dementia among footballer . my granddad be a footballer who head big , heavy , wet leather football . he do not care — he would not have it any other way . he be a defender ; that be what he do . in his later year , he begin to forget thing . I once find he drive around the village where I grow up , unable to remember how he get there or even how to drive his car back . it have a profound impact . I will never be able to prove that it be anything to do with head football in the 1950 , but it be what I have always suspect , so I think it be important that it be part of our debate . I thank the Secretary of State for bring forward the Bill , which will be a huge benefit to team like Gateshead . it be unusual for I to say this , but , have hear about Southampton early , we shall conclude with Portsmouth . what an honour that is , Madam Deputy Speaker . I start with an apology for my over - zealous intervention early and refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and by take the opportunity to congratulate both Portsmouth ' s man ' s and woman ' s team on secure championship status this season . as a football fan , and as a Pompey fan in particular , life be a rollercoaster . the man ' s team ' s history be one of high and low . we be one of seven team in the country to have win all football league , but we have also face relegation — not just because of performance on the pitch , but because of financial instability and dock point . pompey ' s trouble be a combination of ownership that be poor at good and corrupt at worst . with a sell - off of asset and debt , our story be incredibly complex , with a series of owner include some who have international arrest warrant issue for they , other who have their asset freeze by Government , and one who no one could prove actually exist and be never meet by the EPL prior to take over . club asset be sell off to other company , but it be not clear if the club ever receive those money , and item of important historical heritage be just chuck in the skip . the club run up debt in excess of £ 100 million , include debt to local business and charity , and be basically write off after multiple administration . this all take people ' s love of our club for granted and cost people their livelihood . at one point , Pompey be such a toxic club that the only people willing to save and own it be its fan , and we begin the rebuild . fan and community be the people hit the hard , and often the people who pick up the piece and rebuild , which be why they should be central to football regulation . a new regulator can protect against poor ownership ; force club to control their finance well , work to prevent the build - up of unsustainable debt ; ensure that we have a competitive pyramid and a fairer distribution ; prevent the sale of key asset ; and ensure that fan be at the centre of the national game . a new regulator can protect club like mine , who be the beat heart of my community . pride be everywhere in football . I be proud of my football club , and I be proud to have be a season ticket holder for more than 30 year at Portsmouth football club . I be proud to be an elect member of Pompey Supporters Trust . I be proud that our football club be now own by people who genuinely love and be invest in Fratton Park , and I be proud to be in a government who once again deliver on a manifest commitment . I be also proud to have write a joint letter with Andy Cullen , Portsmouth ' s chief executive , to the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister , in favour of the Bill and to invite they both to see how our club have rise from the ashe and be truly at the heart of our community . I be proud to back the Bill , and I be proud to be a football fan . for all fan , I be proud of the Bill . I call the shadow Minister . I put on record my thank to all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution and everyone who have engage with the process outside the Chamber . like in politic , in football there be always a risk of score an own goal , and the Government have just do that with this Bill . it be plain common sense that a Labour donor and a key crony can not lead an independent football regulator . it be yet another spectacular own goal by this Labour Government — so bad that one have to question whether match fixing be in play . be that highly controversial appointment the reason that it have take so long for Labour to bring the Bill back to this place ? for month , this Labour Government have hold the ball in the corner , count down the clock as the Prime Minister enjoy his free prawn sandwich in a suit pay for by Lord Alli in his free box at Arsenal . so delay be the Bill that Liverpool have already win the premier league , Leeds and Burnley have already be promote to the premier league , the Toon Army have end their long wait for a trophy , Birmingham and Wrexham have be promote to the championship and a Labour MP have be send off for punch a constituent in the street . introduce the Bill in the other place be an attempt to avoid the issue here for as long as possible , and the question that fan across the country will want an answer on be why ? be it because of Labour Members ' entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests or because they would not know a football if it hit they in the face ? we conservative put fan first by launch the independent fan - lead review of football governance , which focus on the long - term sustainability of the game . the review state that this area of regulation should in time be return to the Football Association . have speak to a great many football fan across the country and in my constituency , I can say with confidence that they would agree even more now that Labour be try to directly interfere in english football . as we have hear , the Government be put our football club ' participation in UEFA - license competition at risk . do the Minister recognise that one particular area of concern stem from one of UEFA ' s fundamental requirement , which be that there should be no Government interference in the running of football ? those be not my word but those of UEFA . report also suggest that UEFA have make it clear that it have specific rule to guarantee the autonomy of sport and fairness of sporting competition , the ultimate sanction for which would be exclude any federation from UEFA and team from competition . be the Labour Government prepare to be the reason that English football club risk be ban from the champion league , the UEFA league , the conference league , the super cup or — even bad — national competition ? moreover , UEFA , like the conservative party , reportedly have concern about scope creep from the Government ' s regulator . our Bill intend that the regulator would oversee the long - term financial sustainability of club and help protect fan and heritage asset . however , this new Bill make it more likely that , once establish , the Government ' s regulator may expand its mandate beyond those area and amount to Government interference . if Labour have nothing to hide , it should publish the letter . there be already obvious way in which the Government ' s regulator will increase its own scope . the Minister in the other place be unable to provide a clear answer to question ask on the follow two matter . first , on a concern raise with I by serious and senior football people , where do the Government ' s new Bill leave Newcastle United ' s saudi majority owner in relation to the regulator ' s power to investigate club owner ? be the Government say to all those Newcastle fan who have see cup glory for the first time in a generation that that will have to stop ? where will the Labour Government ' s interference end ? labour and liberal Democrat peer have vote down conservative protection for such investment , risk the withdrawal of billion of pound in investment from club . fan will have hear the comment today from mps about scope creep in the ownership test . could the Minister also clarify where this will leave club that be involve in multi - club model ? for example , Manchester City head a worldwide group of partner club , and in 2023 Chelsea acquire a majority stake in the french ligue 1 club Strasbourg . how will the regulator assess these club ? will they assess the whole ownership group , in which case they suddenly become an international football regulator , or will they assess only club in England , in which case the super - wealthy club will simply hide loss in other jurisdiction , as other member have point out . this could directly impact the flourish woman ' s game , give the multi - club model in english football . the own goal be already so much big than this place and politic . we on this side of the pitch understand football and we know why the independence of a football regulator be so important . the Labour Government do not . apart from their donor , this Government already have 38 civil servant work on their regulator , make it clear that there be already political and Government interference in the function of football . this legislation and the Government ' s action in propose their own donor , David Kogan , as the chair explicitly and deliberately compromise the fa ' s autonomy as the primary regulator of football in England . it be also clear that this compromise the competitiveness of english football in its pure form : use your jumper for goalpost in the local park and stand on the terrace with family and friend to support your local club . we can not lose sight of the business side of professional football and the delicate international ecosystem that see fan from around the world enjoy english football . for example , only a handful of owner in the premier league be actually english these day . this country be a football global powerhouse , and every single one of us benefit , with billion of pound for the economy , investment in town and city across the country and ten of thousand of job . a phenomenal export , our beautiful game be watch across the world , with the premier league a true british success story that attract the most fan and the good player and manager . the EFL and the national league be also fantastic competition enjoy by many across the country . football club up and down the pyramid be at the heart of our community and be a force in many people ' s live , so much so that they even have the ability to split family loyalty . that be the case in my Old Bexley and Sidcup constituency , where historically you tend to be either a Millwall or a Charlton supporter . but as any football fan will know , competition across the world be rise fast , not just across Europe but in America , the far east and , of course , the new saudi league , all of whom want a slice of the premier league ' s success . let ' s be honest today : if this labour regulator have be create many year ago , the premier league and all the benefit that labour talk about would not exist . let ' s be honest with the fan about that . I understand that the premier league be the first and only domestic competition in the United Kingdom where the international medium right strip out those of the domestic right deal , and the Government be hit it hard . as we have hear , the premier league alone will be hit across the course of this Parliament by £ 250 million of cost by this Labour Government ' s Budget of broken promise . all club will see their cost increase , first from the Chancellor ' s tax rise and secondly from the ever - increase amount of red tape introduce by this Government and exemplified by this Bill . football might have change over the year , but the Labour party have not . a Bill tout as reduce cost for fan do nothing of the sort . in fact , plain as day , it will increase the cost for every fan across the country . the Government can stand at the Dispatch Box today but they know full well that this regulator will increase the cost on fan , so much so that Labour peer vote against an amendment that would have disclose the true cost of this regulator on football ticket price . what be the Government try to hide ? I ask the Minister : why be she block transparency over ticket price ? not one Labour MP have be able to say how their regulator will reduce ticket price for fan across this country . I will conclude , as I be conscious of time and want to give the Minister a chance to speak . this shameful Labour Government have once again put their party first — crony over club , favour over fan , greed over the beautiful game . it seem that the Government have take inspiration from John Barnes and take his lyric too literally when he sing , " they ' ll always hit you and hurt you " . I be sure he do not mean that the Government should hit fan with increase ticket price and hurt english football . the conservative party be under new leadership and will not shy away from tell the fan the truth . labour have shamefully cut grassroots sport funding across the country , include the Lionesses fund , and its regulator will mean even high ticket price for fan at every level of the game . as every Conservative know , " the problem with socialism be that you eventually run out of other people ' s money . " we be call full time on Labour ' s shameless power grab over english football , which will certainly see they relegate in the mind of voter and put english football at major risk internationally . I would like to return to the substance of the Bill . english football be the envy of the world . it be one of our great export , watch by billion globally with some of the most exciting player , club and story in any league . the premier league , the EFL and the national league contribute billion to our economy , support thousand of job and provide the infrastructure that support the next generation of sporting talent . despite the global success of english football , nothing can disguise the underlie fragility of the game . too many fan have watch on as their club sell their stadium , change colour or collapse under malicious ownership . since 1992 , over 60 club have go into administration , and expert analysis suggest the financial picture across the pyramid be worsen , not improve . for each club that fail , there be a devastating knock - on impact for local community . indeed , these club be more than just business ; they lie at the heart of community up and down the country , steep in history and provide source of identity and pride across our town , city and village . I have see that at first hand when visit club across the country — from Southend United to Everton , from Barnsley to Brighton . those fan deserve to focus on what be happen on the pitch rather than off it . of course , it be the previous Government that launch a fan - lead review into football governance . that review , lead by the former Conservative Sports Minister Dame Tracey Crouch — I pay tribute to she for her tireless work on this topic — identify the need for an independent football regulator . of course , it be the previous Government that publish their Bill to do just that . it fall due to the election , when member on both side of this House stand on election manifesto that commit to bring forward a regulator again . ultimately , the purpose of the Bill be simple : it introduce a new light - touch regulator for the game intend to cover the top five level of man ' s football . at a basic level , the regulator will require just three thing of club : be a fit and proper owner , have a sensible business plan and consult the fan . it will of course be apply proportionately . several member across the House have highlight the experience of their local club with rogue owner , include my hon . friend the Members for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) , for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) , for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) , for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) , for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) , for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) and for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) . I know that many other member would have like to contribute to the debate . I turn to financial distribution . I want to be clear that a football - lead solution be the preferred outcome . the regulator ' s primary focus will be ensure that club have a suitable custodian and be run sustainably . distribution should primarily be a matter for league themselves , but if a football - lead solution can not be reach , the regulator will be ready to step up if require . as a last resort , it can facilitate a solution . this backstop mechanism will only be use if football need it , and it will be underpin by the " State of the game " report , which will inform the regulator ' s work for a comprehensive review of the financial health of football . I turn to some of the other issue raise in the debate . a number of member rightly pay tribute to their own grassroots club , and I have see the contribution in my constituency of Barnsley South . grassroots football be the foundation on which the football pyramid be build . it be not in scope of the Bill , but a few week ago we announce further investment . I be of course pleased to visit Basingstoke , and my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) also raise that point specifically . the hon . member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) and my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) also mention it . a number of member mention concussion . that issue be not cover by the Bill , but the Secretary of State and I will meet family shortly . I have hear the point that they have make . the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , rightly highlight how some of the change that we have make reflect the previous Committee ' s report , whether with regard to fan or foreign policy . she also point out that we could ask 10 different people about parachute payment and get 10 different answer , but we believe it be right that they be not rule out . she also speak about how the chair of the regulator will need to demonstrate an understanding of the complex football ecosystem . I very much hear her comment about the appointment of the chair . we welcome the scrutiny that her Committee will provide — I know that she will be fair and robust . she ask for a cast - iron guarantee on club in trouble . we believe that the regulator would be able to prevent or mitigate similar situation , because regulation can be proactive . real - time financial monitoring will allow early intervention if a club show sign of distress . we hear so many example in the debate , include Derby , Reading , Sheffield Wednesday and Blackpool . I appreciate the support and contribution of the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , who raise a number of issue . I be happy to meet he to discuss they far . he ask specifically about commercial issue . the regulator will not intervene on commercial matter such as sponsorship . the Government will continue to follow the well available evidence on the impact of gamble sponsorship in sport to inform future decision . let I be very clear : UEFA have confirm in write to the Secretary of State , and the fa confirm directly to member of the other place , that the Bill as draft do not breach UEFA statute . [ interruption . ] the regulator will be operationally independent of Government and will not exert undue influence on the fa ' s ability to govern the game . the extent of its statutory power and duty will simply not allow it to do so . conservative Members call for private correspondence to be publish . how many letter from FIFA and UEFA be publish by their government ? none . let I address the reason amendment . it be disappointing but not surprising that the Conservatives have table an amendment to kill the Bill . I will take some of those point in turn during the short time I have leave . the Secretary of State have select David Kogan as her preferred candidate for the role of chair of the independent football regulator . that follow a fair and open recruitment process that be run in line with the Government ' s code for public appointment . David bring a wealth of expertise from the sport and media industry , make he an outstanding candidate for the role . let I make a few thing clear on the increase cost and regulatory burden for all English football club , particularly in the low league . first , these be exactly the same levy provision use in the previous Bill , which the Conservatives introduce . as they will know , the Government be not set the levy charge . give the requirement in the Bill , we expect any charge to be distribute proportionately . those with the broad shoulder will pay the most . I challenge the suggestion that the proportionate cost of the levy should lead directly to increase ticket price . some club have spend more on the transfer fee for one player than the regulator be estimate to cost over several year . when the levy be distribute across club , no club big or small will be charge more than be fair or affordable , so pass the cost on to fan would not be proportionate . it be quite amazing that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) , speak about own goal . when I be in opposition , I hear he question the then Sports Minister — now the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) — about how the Bill could go far . indeed , I have spend hour with the right hon . member , whom I like and respect . I know that he have have a difficult day . each Member here from across the House will have a football club in their constituency , whether in the grassroot or up in the premier league . all of our community have a stake in this game and in the pyramid . I believe this Bill will protect and promote the sustainability of the game . I thank everyone who have contribute to the Bill , from the club and the league to the fan , and of course to the Department for Culture , Media and Sport official . this be a once - in - a - generation opportunity to ensure that the sport we all love can be enjoy for year to come by local fan and community . it be the Labour party that be on the side of football fan . we be make good on our manifesto promise . tonight we will deliver that change . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Helen Whately James Wild Mike Wood Rebecca Smith Rebecca Paul Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Ballinger Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Emma Foody will Forster Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Monica Harding Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Natasha iron Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Alison Taylor David Taylor Cameron Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Vicky Foxcroft Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 74 , Noes 337 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Jim Allister Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Ballinger Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Ann davy Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Monica Harding Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Natasha iron Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley John Milne Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Alison Taylor David Taylor Cameron Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Vicky Foxcroft Kate Dearden Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Iain Duncan Smith Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Gregory Stafford Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Helen Whately James Wild Rebecca Paul Rebecca Smith the House divide : Ayes 342 , Noes 70 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . football Governance Bill [ Lords ] : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Football Governance Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 26 June 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . football Governance Bill [ Lords ] : Money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Football Governance Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . football Governance Bill [ Lords ] : Ways and Means Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Football Governance Bill , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) the charging of a levy by the Independent Football Regulator in connection with the exercise of its function under the Act ; and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medicines and Medical Devices that the draft Medical Devices ( Amendment ) ( Great Britain ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 3 March , be approve . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . Administration Committee Ordered , that Joe Morris be discharge from the Administration Committee and Kirsteen Sullivan be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) community Health : Manchester Rusholme Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to raise an issue that be incredibly important to I and increasingly press for my constituent . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for be here to respond to the debate . the Government inherit a dire set of economic circumstance . year of Tory funding cut to local authority and public service have be detrimental to community , so I be pleased that the Labour Government have commit to hand power back to community , as well as make commitment to reduce health inequality . disparity in community health and access to vital service be cause difficulty across the country , but they have have a disproportionate impact on my constituent . my constituency of Manchester Rusholme be urban and incredibly diverse . I be proud to represent so many different community . we also have many student and young people live in the constituency . although we be discuss health inequality , the issue go far beyond health service . we need a wide debate about the many aspect that contribute towards our mental and physical health . as well as accessible and equal healthcare , that include access to safe and clean local environment , stable work and income and secure and affordable housing . I will discuss the importance of those element throughout the debate . as member know , I be passionate about protect our local natural environment . we all know how beneficial fresh air and green space be to our health and wellbeing , but in Manchester , research show that many have just 1 square metre of garden space . that mean that turn park and community green space into attractive outdoor environment be even more crucial . my constituency celebrate its diversity , and our park be often where different culture meet in exercise , play and enjoyment . we be lucky to have beautiful and historic park such as Alexandra Park and Platt Fields Park . park be also a space for those live in a city to escape high air pollution by act as a carbon sink , absorb and store carbon dioxide from the atmosphere . in Manchester , more than 1 , 200 people die a year as a direct result of toxic air , with baby , pregnant woman , elderly people and people with respiratory illness most at risk . More than 54 , 000 child in Greater Manchester also suffer from asthma . we therefore must improve air quality in city , include utilise public transport and make it easy and safe to travel by walk , wheeling or cycling . without that , we risk isolate many people from society . however , even park be not safe from air pollution . while community green space should be an escape from damage air pollution , evidence from Asthma and Lung UK suggest that less than 1 % of the 43 , 000 public playground in the UK meet guideline set by the World Health Organisation . I have hear from young people in Ardwick about the air pollution near their school . in Ardwick Green Park , which be border by two main road , child be at constant risk from the emission just by play outside . while we must improve access to local park , we also need to improve air quality more broadly to create truly safe and clean natural space . may I commend the hon . gentleman on bring this debate forward ? I speak to he beforehand to get his thought . do he agree that one of the great thing that have happen be that the Minister in government have set aside planning for space where people can age well and live in an area design for they to grow old ? that be accelerate , include in Manchester Rusholme , to which he be refer , with some £ 1 . 5 billion of funding . that be welcome . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for healthy home and building , do he agree that along with the 1 . 5 million house that the Government be commit to ensure will be build , environmental area must be set aside ? tree be the lung of the world , and tree have to be part of this , and they need to be plant for the future . I could not agree more with the hon . member . we need to do more to ensure that there be clean air for everyone , because it be essential for each of we to survive . another significant obstruction to community health be extensive waste , fly - tipping and litter . ward in my constituency be plague by high level of fly - tipping and a lack of awareness of how to dispose of waste safely and legally . fly - tipping and litter be an eyesore for resident and cause problem within community . countless constituent have write to I about they . let I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the brilliant work do by locally lead group in my constituency to target these issue , include the Friends of Park group , Moss Side Eco Squad , up it , and all those who individually " green " their alleyway and litter - pick . however , while be hugely beneficial to we all , their work should not be necessary . I have also be pleased to support the initiative that the Government be already take , such as the drink container deposit scheme , to encourage recycling . I thank my own local authority , Manchester City Council , for put even more fund into deal with fly - tipping this year to get to the root cause . we know that tackle this problem systematically be vital . as well as be clean , green and tidy , our local environment must be safe , but high level of knife violence have cause problem in Manchester for many year . over the last three year , Greater Manchester police have record more than 2 , 000 crime of possess an " article with a blade or point " . Knife crime have also lead to the tragic death of numerous young people in recent year , sadly include some of my own constituent . we can not continue to let our young people down by allow they to fall into violence . I be relieved that the Home Secretary be take this issue seriously , and have already ban the ownership of certain dangerous knife . I be also grateful for the work of community group in my constituency such as Mero ' s World , the Hideaway Youth Project , Youth on Solid Ground and Moss Side Millennium Powerhouse to raise awareness of the terrible reality of knife violence , make bleed pack more accessible for responsive action , and give young people a safe place to go . we must work on preventive measure to stop knife violence devastate our community : that must remain a top priority . poor standard of work , poor pay and job insecurity also contribute to low level of community health . Job stability determine everything from a financial safety net to housing condition , heating and eat nutritional food , but more than 13 , 000 people in my constituency be not in employment , which be more than the UK average . nearly 14 % of people rely on out - of - work benefit in Manchester , the eighth high percentage in the country . as for those who be in work , more than 11 % of people in Manchester be in low - pay employment , which be significantly high than the national average . as we all know , low - pay work can damage both physical and mental health , increase stress and anxiety level , which be make bad by external factor such as the cost of living crisis . we also know that people from community that experience racial inequality often have high level of unemployment than other . those high level of unemployment and low - pay work in our area be detrimental to the general wellbeing of the community , and contribute to high level of poverty . furthermore , it be shocking that more than 47 % of child in Manchester be live in poverty . that be the third high proportion in the country . grow up in poverty have an impact on childhood development , and play a significant role in education and early - year experience . for example , child in the most disadvantaged area be less likely to pass key gcse . Health Equals have find that child grow up in poverty be four time more likely than those from wealthy family to struggle with mental health issue by the time they be 11 . this create a worrying future for young people grow up in my constituency , who will be disproportionately affect by poor economic condition . I be pleased that the Government be commit to break down those barrier that exist for young people . child and young people can not be forget in conversation about our local community , because they form a key group in our community who desperately need support that have previously be lack . a further issue that be fundamental to the health of our community be housing . affordable , warm and safe housing should be a fundamental right , yet so many people be live without this necessity . in Manchester Rusholme , up to 40 % of household privately rent — double the national average — yet over one in four privately rent home across Manchester be non - decent . I be grateful for the Government ' s effort to deliver on our promise to transform the rented sector through the Renters ' Rights Bill , which will provide much - need security for renter across the country . I be proud to have such a diverse community live in my constituency , but no one should suffer due to their identity or background . for example , research show that mixed - ethnicity household be more likely to live in house with damp . exposure to damp and mould can cause serious illness or bad , as we see with the tragic death of Awaab Ishak . give these inequality , my constituent be disproportionately impact by poor housing . housing be a critical issue for my constituent , and take up nearly 30 % of all casework send to I . housing in our area have become unaffordable and inaccessible , and be in poor condition . outside the private rented sector , 28 . 5 % of household in Manchester live in social rent home — one of the high rate for authority outside London . I will continue to work with housing association to ensure that all my constituent be in good - quality social housing . be on the waiting list for social housing can take year , deny access to family and individual in desperate need . I thank Manchester city council for be proactive in invest in even more social housing across my constituency so that everyone can live a healthy life . I have outline the disparity in local environment , employment and housing , and their impact on both individual health and community health . on the back of that , I know my colleague will agree that where someone live should not determine how long they live , but in Manchester Rusholme we have the 19th low life expectancy of all constituency , at 77 . 2 year — seven year low than the figure for the healthy community . this large disparity be unacceptable and truly highlight the problem face the constituency . it act as a motivator for I to improve community health in any way possible . the wide health inequality see across the UK be also detrimental for my constituent in Manchester Rusholme . for example , woman in my constituency be suffer due to regional inequality ; woman in the north - west be less likely to be treat for mental health condition than those in other region , as there be a gap in treatment base on where people live . in Manchester , black , asian and minority ethnic community be disproportionately impact by the covid pandemic . we know that many mental and physical health impact have be prove to be cause by discrimination . we can not deny the increase pressure of the mental health crisis in Manchester . hospital admission for mental health condition have increase among those age under 18 , as have mental health absence from work . look at the health of our community should first involve look at the health of resident . address health inequality be crucial to wide community health , and I thank the caribbean and African Health Network and the neighbourhood health champion for their hard work in this area . as the Darzi review outline , vital health disparity exist in almost all aspect of care due to the impact of poverty and homelessness , and disparity between ethnicity and for those with learn disability . we must act urgently to ensure that no one be leave behind , and that our health service and the factor contribute to our health be equitable . our local community greatly determine our overall health and wellbeing , as well as that of wide society , but poor standard in health , the environment , work and housing detract from that wellbeing . the impact of these issue on household can not be overstate , and quality of life can not remain a postcode lottery . I thank all the charity , organisation and volunteer in my constituency for work to improve our community health , but the weight of improve wellbee for the constituent of Manchester Rusholme can not rest solely on their shoulder . I be therefore call for a cross - governmental community health strategy to tackle the unequal access to a good quality of life through health , local environment , housing and standard of work . I be interested to hear the Labour Government long - term plan to ensure that everyone can live happy and healthy life . we have an opportunity and a duty to protect our local community , and to encourage they to prosper and flourish , as they have so much to offer . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Rusholme ( Afzal Khan ) on secure this important debate . before I begin my remark , I would like to pay tribute to some of the stellar charity that be work to reduce health inequality : the Health Foundation , which be lead the way with its Health Equals mission ; the People ' s Health Trust , which be provide funding and support to leave - behind community ; and the BHA for Equality , which be found in 1990 to address the lack of quality information and service for black community in Manchester . I be respond on behalf of the Minister for Public Health — the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) — but I be more than happy to take this debate because I recognise many of the issue that my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Rusholme mention from my own constituency . I be respond not just on behalf of the Government , but as an MP from a constituency with some of the high level of deprivation in the United Kingdom . I agree with my hon . friend that the level of inequality between the well - off and bad - off in our country be a national scandal . fourteen year of austerity measure and stagnant wage have disproportionately affect low - income household , exacerbate both income and regional disparity . place such as Manchester and Port Talbot have bear the brunt . the life expectancy for mancunian man and woman be significantly bad compare with their compatriot in the rest of England . a baby boy bear in the Manchester royal infirmary can expect to live for just over 75 year , which be four year less than the english average . a baby girl bear in Manchester can expect to live to the age of about 79 and a half , which be also four year less than in England as a whole . my hon . friend raise some issue that be not within my Department ' s remit , include housing , knife crime and fly - tipping , but I completely understand why he have do so , because the determinant of ill health be wide and it be much more than a single factor that predict healthy life expectancy . the Government know that we can not address the challenge we face in the north - west with each Department in Whitehall siloe one from another , so we be take a whole - of - Government approach to tackle inequality through our health mission . that be chair by the Prime Minister , who be lend his weight and authority from the centre of Government . we have a laser focus on address the social determinant of health in a truly strategic way , and address the wide determinant of health to improve healthy life expectancy for all , while halve the gap in healthy life expectancy between different region of England . we be prioritise prevention , shift more care into the community and intervene early in life to raise the healthy generation of child in our history . address healthcare inequity be a core focus of our 10 - year health plan to ensure that the NHS be there for anyone who need it whenever they need it . we have establish 11 work group to take forward policy development that will feed into the plan . that include work group focus on how care should be design and deliver to improve healthcare equity , alongside ensure that access to healthcare service be effective and responsive . we look forward to update the House once the plan be publish in June . proximity to fast food outlet be strongly associate with obesity . kid live in the most deprived community be in proximity to twice the number of fast food outlet compare with wealthy area . nearly 3 , 500 school across the country now have a major food outlet within 400 metre ; that is 1 , 000 more school than 10 year ago . we have an outstanding mayor in Andy Burnham . devolution give he and other leader in Greater Manchester the freedom and flexibility to set priority locally . in December , the Government publish the revise national planning policy framework for local authority , which give they strong , clear power to block new fast food outlet near school and where young people gather . this will stop the relentless target of child and young people by the fast food industry . I be delighted that just last week , the Tobacco and Vapes Bill pass its Second reading in the other place . smoking be a scourge on deprive community and contribute to poverty , ill health and a low life expectancy . Britain be lead the world through landmark legislation to break the cycle of addiction and disadvantage by gradually end the sale of tobacco product across the country . the Bill contain power to extend the ban on smoke indoor to certain outdoor setting to reduce the harm of second - hand smoking , particularly around child and vulnerable people . over the past 14 year , a two - tier health system have emerge in our country . People who can afford it be increasingly go private to skip the queue , while those who can not are leave behind . we be determined to end two - tier healthcare in this country , so whether someone be the rich or the poor person in Manchester , they get timely , quality treatment that be free at the point of use . our elective reform plan will see more NHS patient able to choose to be treat in a private hospital , where there be capacity , pay for by the state . More capacity will be available for people in working - class area of the country and for woman stick on waiting list for gynaecological care . where we can treat work people fast , we will , and we will make no apology for do so — working - class patient in this country deserve the same choice , control and convenience as the wealthy expect — and I be delighted that waiting list have be fall now for six month in a row . the previous Labour Government do so much to reduce inequality : lift million of child out of poverty through sure Start ; give a lifeline to work family through child tax credit ; create the minimum wage ; and fix the NHS after almost two decade of under - investment . it be a matter of profound regret that so much of that legacy have be undo over the past 14 year , but the people of Manchester don ' t just want we to look back in anger ; they want we to get on with the job of build home , fix the NHS and put more money in people ' s pocket . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister have speak about the " class ceiling " that prevent child from get ahead . I look forward to work with my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Rusholme to shatter the class ceiling that hang above his constituency and mine . question put and agree to . House adjourn .