business before Questions Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] second reading oppose and defer until Tuesday 20 May ( Standing Order no . 20 ) . oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — Gaza : humanitarian Situation what discussion he have have with his israeli counterpart on the entry of aid and food supply into Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to support people impact by the humanitarian situation in Gaza . aid must be restore to Gaza . it should never be use as a political tool , and Israel be bind under international law to allow the unhindered passage of humanitarian aid . the UK have jointly call an urgent session of the UN Security Council this afternoon to address the dire situation in Gaza . the current intentional blockade of food , water and medicine by the israeli Government be prevent life - sustain supply from reach thousand of child , who the Minister know be most vulnerable to malnutrition and premature death . save the Children estimate that over 65 , 000 child be suffer . what decisive action be the Government take beyond the E3 statement to make it clear to the Government of Israel that their siege in Gaza must end immediately and that a humanitarian aid system can not be replace with a military - control one ? will he consider sanction and the cessation of arm and rule out any trade deal , as child should not pay the price for the inaction of the international community ? my hon . friend be right to raise the plight of child in Gaza and , indeed , all those suffer from the lack of aid and the continued conflict . this government have be clear that the ceasefire must be restore . since the E3 statement , which she mention , we have take the decision jointly with our partner to call an urgent session of the UN Security Council , give the gravity of the situation . the loom famine in Gaza be not a natural disaster ; it be a direct result of the deterioration of the ceasefire agreement . it be deeply concern that this be put the entire population of Gaza at critical risk of food insecurity and potential famine . can the Minister assure I that this Government be support every possible opportunity to get vital resource and humanitarian aid into the region ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . we be do everything we can to ensure that aid get in , that hostage be release , that Hamas be no long in charge of Gaza , and that we get the ceasefire and path to a two - state solution that we so desperately need . the UN ' s Philippe Lazzarini be right , isn ' t he , to say today that Israel be commit a " massive atrocity " by block aid to the child of Gaza ? as well as the urgent need for aid , the palestinian people need more trade with country like the UK . will the Minister explain how my constituent in Rochdale can buy more palestinian good , such as olive oil , herb and date , and support tech company and the many co - operative that operate in the west bank and in Gaza ? I know that Rochdale be the home of the co - operative movement in this country and that there be many co - operative in the occupied Palestinian Territories as well . on 20 April , we sign a memorandum of understanding with the Palestinian Authority . that include pursue further co - operation in exactly the area he describe , include economic development and trade . Gaza face imminent famine due to the israeli Government ' s blockade , and over 2 million people face catastrophic hunger level . what action be the UK Government take to lift the blockade and secure the delivery of humanitarian aid to Gaza ? this Government have a clear position on the vital importance of aid return to Gaza . that be why we be call an urgent session of the UN Security Council this afternoon . it be why the Foreign Secretary have make these point repeatedly and clearly to his israeli counterpart , as indeed have I . how long will the UK walk by on the other side as palestinian child bleed and starve to death ? be it not time that this Government , and indeed his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , show that they be supportive of Israel , but that that support do not necessarily mean they be supportive of a particular Government — in this case , the racist , brutal regime of Netanyahu ? let we not forget what this Government have do . we restore funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency after the Conservatives freeze it . we suspend arm export licence whereas the Conservatives do not take action . we have provide £ 129 million in humanitarian assistance to the Occupied Palestinian Territories . we be not on the other side of the road . I welcome the right hon . member ' s strong view on this ; I find his intervention last week very powerful indeed . there be no one on the Labour Benches who do not understand the gravity of the situation . that be why we invite the palestinian Prime Minister , why we sign the memorandum of understanding , and why we be call an urgent session of the Security Council . this government will not be on the other side of the road from palestinian suffering . last week the United Nations issue a report describe the situation in Gaza as " one of the most ostentatious and merciless manifestation of the desecration of human life and dignity " . the Government have always insist that it be not for they but for the court to determine what be and what be not a genocide , but the Minister will know that the genocide convention also put a legal obligation on state to act to prevent a genocide . do he believe that the UK have fulfil its legal obligation under that convention to prevent a genocide in Gaza ? as I say to the right hon . member for the Wrekin ( Mark Pritchard ) , we be take action — not just rhetoric , but action — to try to address the situation in Gaza . that include call the Security Council to an urgent session this afternoon , alongside our partner . we will continue to take the action that we think be need to ensure that the people of Gaza get what they need . we hear about the action that the Government be take , but unfortunately none of they be lead to the prevention of the starvation and killing of innocent civilian . the late number , which be only an estimate , show that over 60 child have die of starvation accord to official record . we do not know how many have die but have not yet be record . there be one step that the Government have not take . I welcome the aid , but when it stand on the other side of a crossing and can not get to the people who need it , it be useless . some 10 or 11 month ago , aid be airdrop into Gaza . why be the Government not airdrop aid or provide it by sea , and will they condemn the bombing on 2 May of the freedom flotilla , which go to provide aid ? as I think the House know , I be familiar with the impediment to get aid into Gaza — I go to the Gaza - Egypt border to see the restriction for myself . we have make these point in public and in private , and we will continue to do so . we be talk to our jordanian partner and other — many in the region understandably have real concern about the lack of aid get in . although we be consider , with Jordan and other , what the alternative may be , I must be plain with the House : there be no alternative to a land route if aid be to get in at the scale that be require , so we must be clear with the israeli Government and all partner in the region that open those crossing be critical . Mr Lazzarini have say that child in Gaza be more likely to die of starvation than of an act of violence . what do my hon . friend expect from this afternoon ' s session at the UN ? what specifically will be ask for that would move the situation on ? Israel can not be allow to continue use food as a weapon of war . I think I be clear about the Government ' s expectation in my previous answer . those expectation be ground in Israel ' s international legal obligation . ultimately , this be a week of diplomacy : the President of the United States will be in the region , and we will raise these issue in the Security Council . I hope that diplomacy will be able to make progress towards a ceasefire and the restoration of aid . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Gaza have be starve of humanitarian aid for over 70 day now . minister have repeatedly express their disappointment , but there be no evidence that the israeli Government be listen or have any intention of reopen the supply route . in March , the Foreign Secretary withdraw his assessment that the blockade be a breach of international law . will the Minister state how many day the blockade must continue before the Government recognise it as a breach of international law ? to make clear the UK ' s support for Palestine ' s right to self - determination and opposition to the extremist policy of annexation by force , will the Government commit to work with France towards the joint recognition of the state of Palestine at the conference next month ? the Foreign Secretary have be clear repeatedly , as have all Ministers from the Dispatch Box , that it be the long - stand policy of british government that we do not make legal determination . we make an assessment when we arrive that there be a real risk of serious breach of international humanitarian law , and that continue to be our finding . give the event that many in this House have rightly raise , we continue to make those assessment and include all those event in they . on the french - saudi conference in June , we continue to talk with all our partner . as I say in my previous answer , this be a period for diplomacy . a ceasefire be desperately need , and it be diplomacy that will get we through to the next stage . Kashmir what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the situation in Kashmir . the UK welcome the commitment make by India and Pakistan to pause any further military action . give our strong and close relationship with both country , the UK stand ready to work with both side to make a lasting ceasefire a reality . on Saturday , I meet constituent in Bury North with deep family root in Pakistan and Azad Kashmir , include relative in Mirpur , Kotli , Bhimber , Lahore and Gujrat . there be grow anxiety within this community in Bury about the potential for the conflict to escalate once again . while I praise the effort of the British Government in secure a ceasefire , give the UK ' s historic tie to the region , will the Foreign Secretary assure the House that the Government will continue their diplomatic effort and dialogue to ensure last peace , include the vital protection of water access under the Indus water treaty , which must not be weaponise in any escalation ? we do recognise and understand that the situation in India and Pakistan be deeply unsettling for over 3 million british national who stem from those two country , with which we have deep relationship . I have speak to my indian and pakistani counterpart four time since this crisis begin , and I stay in close touch with Secretary of State Rubio and my counterpart in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates in particular — nation that have relationship with both country . we will do all we can , and we encourage both India and Pakistan to maintain their commitment to hard - win area of diplomatic co - operation , such as the Indus water treaty . follow the terrorist attack on 22 April , India and Pakistan engage in military activity , and India hit nine terrorist basis . now that there be a fragile peace , which be still be negotiate today , what effort be the Foreign Secretary make to ensure that the terrorist basis be remove from Pakistan - occupy Kashmir ? let I be clear that the horrendous terrorism we see — 26 national strip and shoot — be horrific , and we condemn it . we will continue to work with close partner to deal with this terrorist threat . the hon . Gentleman be right : all of we have to lean in and ensure that we be support effort on both side to deal with horrendous terrorism . that be what , in the end , will maintain an endure peace . the reality remain that the international community have fail to act on the plight of the Kashmiris for over seven decade . from the revocation of article 370 and 35a , strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status , to the mass arrest and political repression in one of the most militarised zone in the world , the attack on Kashmiri human right and civil liberty be intolerable . if we be serious about human right and long - term peace and stability in the region , the central issue of Kashmir can not be ignore any long and must now get the attention it deserve . will the Secretary of State today reaffirm our unwavering commitment to the birthright to self - determination of the son and daughter of Kashmir ? let I once again condemn the terrorism we see that begin this crisis and remind the House that since 1947 there have be six conflict and three war between these two great country . the long - stand position of the UK be that it be for India and Pakistan to find a last resolution to the situation in Kashmir , take into account of course , as my hon . friend suggest , the wish of the Kashmiri people . my constituent in Woking , particularly those of indian and pakistani descent , welcome the ceasefire . will the Foreign Secretary urge both country to accept that the solution to the Kashmir question be self - determination , not further violence ? as I have say , it be absolutely for India and Pakistan to find a last resolution to the situation in Kashmir , and of course it must in the end take into account the wish of the Kashmiri people . but all of we have a responsibility to condemn terrorism wherever it occur : 26 innocent people be strip and shoot be intolerable and of course we condemn it . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . we all welcome the easing of tension between India and Pakistan over the weekend , and our thought continue to be with those affect by this shocking terrorist atrocity . the House will be aware of the ongoing presence of terrorist infrastructure in Pakistan , and that should be a concern for all of we . last week at the Dispatch Box , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , comment that he have hold discussion with his pakistani counterpart on this very issue . what further discussion have take place to secure commitment from the Pakistani Government that they will dismantle terrorist infrastructure , and what role will Britain play in support the removal of terrorist threat within Pakistan , because that be what will improve stability and security in the region ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady , and may I share my reflection over the last few day ? we do need proper communication between India and Pakistan , and that must happen not just on military channel but on political channel . she will recognise that on this occasion , those communication be poor . we do need confidence - build measure and to ensure that we be deal with terrorism where it act , and of course the United Kingdom will lean in to that . above all , we need dialogue . the international community can play a role , particularly where country have relation with both country . that be why we have be talk to the United States , that be why we have be talk to Saudi , and that be why we be work with the UAE . US Policy on Iran what discussion he have have with his US counterpart on the policy of the US Administration on Iran . what discussion he have have with his US counterpart on the policy of the US Administration on Iran . the UK be supportive of US effort to reach a nuclear deal with Iran . we have encourage Iran to engage with President Trump ' s effort in good faith and to find a diplomatic solution . since the beginning of May , I have raise Iran with US Secretary of State Marco Rubio and the special envoy to the middle east , Steve Witkoff . we have discuss the range of threat that Iran pose to the UK and our partner . the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps be the terrorism export wing of the despotic regime in Tehran . why be we not join the Americans in proscribe this organisation when we do proscribe the Wagner organisation in Russia ? be it possibly because the Americans be pressure we to continue our tenuous diplomatic link with Tehran ? I remind the hon . Gentleman that on 4 March the UK specify Iran under the foreign influence registration scheme , which target those who undertake malign activity in the UK . of course we keep proscription under review . we be look closely at the area of state threat ; that be traditionally very different from the sort of cell and terrorist community that we do proscribe . that be why the Government continue to look at this area very carefully . our United Kingdom and the United States be align in the view that a nuclear - armed Iran would pose a serious threat to global stability . with nuclear negotiation currently under way between the US and Iran , can the Secretary of State inform the House what outcome his Department would consider to be a success from a british perspective ? crucially , do he have a contingency plan if those talk fail to produce an acceptable result ? Iran be now produce roughly one significant quantity of highly enriched uranium every six week . that be 40 time above the limit in the joint comprehensive plan of action — the deal that we strike with Iran , which I have in front of I . [ Official Report , 15 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 7wc . ] ( Correction ) I be really crystal clear about this . Iran must never develop a nuclear weapon ; it must reverse its escalation — we have see that in its enrichment programme ; it must not carry out any critical weaponisation work ; and these term have to be fully verifiable . unless we get that , we will see a snapback of the sanction regime that we strike with it 10 year ago . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . the regime in Tehran be responsible for so much of the appalling bloodshed and conflict in the middle east . it pose a direct threat to Britain and on british soil , as we have see from the recent arrest of iranian national in counter - terrorism operation . have the Foreign Secretary summon the iranian ambassador to express concern and to explain what have be go on on british soil ? what discussion have take place with our ally in addition to the nuclear talk that he have just refer to ? what be the position of our partner in the region on the very specific threat that Iran be pose and demonstrate with its dissident on UK soil ? when will the Government come forward with a comprehensive and clear strategy on deal with Iran ? the right hon . Lady be right . on 3 May , counter - terrorism police arrest eight individual , include seven iranian national , as part of two separate police investigation . of course the Minister responsible for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , have speak to the israeli ambassador . [ Official Report , 15 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 8WC . ] ( correction ) as I say , on 4 March we put Iran on the foreign influence registration scheme . we keep proscription under review . we be fully engage with our E3 partner , and we be very pleased that Germany now have a government so that we can work with they together on the JCPOA and snapback , and of course we be speak to Steve Witkoff . humanitarian aid : Educational Programmes if he will make an assessment of the potential merit of allocate 10 % of humanitarian aid to educational programme . the UK be a principled humanitarian donor . we prioritise give humanitarian assistance to people in great need , which include protect the most vulnerable by support access to education in emergency and crisis . decision on future budget be subject to the ongoing spending review and resource allocation process . accord to the Education and Development Forum , plan cut to the official development assistance budget could slash UK aid for education by more than 70 % by 2027 compare with 2019 level . in Gaza , where 95 % of school be damage and 650 , 000 child go without formal education , UK - back programme will be vital in restore hope , provide stability and equip child with the skill to rebuild . do the Minister agree that education aid must be protect , particularly in crisis response such as in Gaza ? as the Prime Minister set out , the UK will continue to play a lead humanitarian role , include in Gaza , where child must be allow to return to school in safety . through our global funding , the UK enable thousand of child to gain access to essential education service , support recovery from the trauma of war and building skill and hope for the future . in the past , the Minister have speak very positively about education . what assessment have be make of the potential progress that could be make in reduce youth radicalisation by allocate aid to education programme , as we have witness over the year a number of young people be brainwash online by extremist group ? we have an excellent programme call education can not wait , which in 2024 provide £ 12 million in first emergency response grant cover not just the educational need but the psychosocial need of those affect by conflict and trauma . I call the shadow Minister . we know that education can make a real difference to a girl ' s life chance , which be why the last Conservative Government commit to ensure that every girl have access to quality education . however , we will now be spend less on development , so can the Minister give clarity on the commitment that the Government be make to support woman and girl over the next few year ? which programme will be keep and which will be cut , and how much will be invest in those programme ? the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s humanitarian framework set out our long - term approach through three policy priority : provide humanitarian assistance for those in great need ; protect people at risk in conflict and crisis ; and prevent and anticipate future shock and building resilience . when it come to build resilience , the people most at risk be often woman and young girl who fail to have access to education . the index of educational attainment will be the basis on which many of these decision be make . Consular assistance : Statutory Right whether his Department plan to introduce a statutory right to consular assistance . what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on introduce a statutory right to consular assistance . we be committed to strengthen support for british national abroad , include introduce a right to consular assistance in case of human right violation . the Department be consider a package of measure , which we will announce in due course , alongside option for stakeholder consultation . every year , an estimate 5 , 000 british citizen be arrest abroad , many of they under false pretence . many be use as hostage and deny access to legal representation , and their family be leave without information , not know what have happen to they . high - profile case at the moment include those of Alaa Abd el - Fattah in Egypt and of Jagtar Singh Johal in India . none of these people have an automatic right to support , as be the case with other country such as the United States , so can the Minister give we more detail about exactly what the consular assistance will be and whether it will be automatic for everyone ? the safety and security of british national overseas be a top priority for the Government . this be a complex area of policy — the hon . Lady have describe the wide range of different consular case that the Foreign Office respond to , from kidnap case to more routine case . as I set out to the Foreign Affairs Committee , give the complexity of these issue we will come back to Parliament in due course with option for consultation . I remind the Government that their manifesto promise a legal right to consular assistance in case of human right violation . the Government have now be in power for close on a year . this be not something that should take a big shove ; surely , we should do it straight away . surely such assistance should be a legal right . People include Ryan Cornelius and Jimmy Lai be still be hold . Ryan Cornelius have be hold illegally for 17 year , which the UN have criticise as a human right violation . for age we do not send anybody to see he ; surely now we must act and call out these regime . the first place to start be by give those people the absolute right to consular assistance . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question and his commitment to these issue . be it only so that pass a right in this place would secure the release of the people whose case have be raise . in every case that have be mention by the right hon . Gentleman and by the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , the people concern do receive consular assistance . I have meet the family of Ryan Cornelius and Alaa Abd el - Fattah ; they both remain very much in our mind . it be important that we get the right correct . these be complex case , and we be bind not just by what we decide in Parliament , but by the relevant convention and diplomatic norm . we will take action to try to preserve the safety of british national overseas , but it be right that we take our time to ensure that we get it correct . it be at time of crisis that british national abroad need consular service the most . I share many of my constituent ' concern about the violence in India , Pakistan and Kashmir , include those of a 12 - year - old boy who contact I yesterday about his aunt and uncle who be strand in Pakistan , as be one of my lovely neighbour . although airspace have now be open , what step be the Minister take to ensure that all british resident have access to consular service and be able to return to the UK as soon as possible ? my hon . friend be a doughty champion for her constituent , include at all hour throughout the weekend , and I recognise her commitment and the commitment of many other in this House . the Foreign Secretary set out in a " dear colleague " letter the detail for ensure that mp be able to contact the Foreign Office in a timely way , and I encourage all those watch at home to sign up to our travel advice and to keep watch it carefully . one british citizen deny consular access be Jimmy Lai , who face life in prison for exercise the right guarantee to he under the joint declaration between the United Kingdom and China . my hon . friend will have see report that America intend to raise the case of Jimmy Lai during its recent talk with China in Geneva . what step can the Government take to capitalise on America ' s renew interest in his case so that we can secure his freedom ? we continue to call on the Hong Kong authority to end their politically motivate prosecution and release Jimmy Lai immediately . as my hon . friend would expect , I will not comment overmuch on the action of other state , but I will say that the Prime Minister have raise this matter directly with the relevant authority , as have the Foreign Secretary , the Chancellor and many other . Ukraine : diplomacy what diplomatic step his Department be take to support Ukraine . last week I travel with european partner to Lviv at the invitation of Ukraine ' s Foreign Minister , and yesterday I host , for the first time in London , Foreign Ministers from the Weimar + group of key european ally to discuss our joint effort to strengthen european security and secure a just and last peace in Ukraine . last weekend the Prime Minister say that the UK would do all that it could to support Ukraine . if that be the case , why do the Government continue to prevaricate over seize billion of pound in frozen asset hold in UK bank , which could be use to build Ukraine defence ? the long we delay , the more likely it be that those fund will become wrap up in other negotiation and we will lose the chance altogether . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise the issue , but it be not an issue on which the Government should act unilaterally . it be a multilateral issue on which we should act with our G7 partner and our european partner , recognise that some partner in Europe be hugely expose . the good way in which to move forward be to pool those asset , and discussion on that be ongoing . the Yale University humanitarian research lab be do incredible work in track the 19 , 546 Ukraine child who have be steal by Russia , but then become a victim of the cut be make by the Department of Government Efficiency . follow international outrage , its work be preserve and give a reprieve for six week , a period that end on 8 May . can my right hon . friend reassure the House that the datum collect by the university have be secure and transfer to Europol , or that its funding be secure for the long term ? I thank my hon . friend for continually raise this matter . we be an active member of the International Coalition for the Return of ukrainian Children , and we fund the Bring Kids back UA and Save Ukraine campaign . we have raise this issue internationally , and I be proud to have work on it with Mrs Zelensky . I will write to the hon . Lady as soon as I can to update she on the funding . the sustainable success of Ukraine and its self - defence hinge very much on the appetite of the President of the United States of America . what step be the Foreign Secretary , his Ministers and his official take to ensure that the President remain committed to defend the territorial integrity of not just his own nation but all nation , and will the Foreign Secretary ensure that the White House understand that allow an aggressor to prosper in this case will encourage other aggressor to invade their neighbour in the future ? I be grateful for the experience and the strength with which the right hon . Gentleman have speak . he will have note that the Prime Minister be in Kyiv recently with President Zelensky and other european partner , and that they engage with President Trump there . we welcome the desire to secure an endure peace , but it seem to I that engage in those talk will require a ceasefire . it be Putin who be prevaricate , it be Putin who be obfuscate , and we must call that out with our long experience of scrutinise that particular individual . we all hope the moot peace talk between Russia and Ukraine on end Russia ' s illegal invasion take place as quickly as possible , to stop the killing and save life . accountability be important , so will the Foreign Secretary outline his position on russian war crime and on how justice can be do ? I be very pleased to be with other European Foreign Ministers in Lviv to support the special tribunal and be crystal clear that those who have prosecute this war must attest and be accountable for their action . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Ukrainians continue bravely to resist Russia ' s war machine , yet President Trump continue to indulge in the fantasy that Putin be serious about peace . the UK need to maintain clear leadership in the face of Trump ' s unreliability . in the Foreign Secretary ' s response to I in March , he say that the UK want to pursue the seizure of frozen russian asset , but that Belgium and Germany be blocker . I listen carefully to the answer he give to my hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( John Milne ) , and he speak about multilateralism . what conversation on this issue have he have with his counterpart in Belgium and Germany since March , and when will the point come when the UK show leadership , call time and lead from the front by seize russian asset ? I have have detailed talk with my belgian counterpart — not just at Foreign Minister level , but technical talk that have involve our official . I know that the hon . Gentleman understand multilateralism . he will recognise that the new german Government have only be in power for a matter of day . I be able to discuss this issue yesterday with my german counterpart but , with all grace , I be allow he to spend some time get into the detail of the issue . Marine Biological Diversity Agreement what progress he have make on ratify the agreement under the United Nations convention on the law of the sea on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity of area beyond national jurisdiction . as the Foreign Secretary say in his kew lecture , we be completely committed to ratify the marine biological diversity of area beyond national jurisdiction agreement . primary legislation be require to give effect to our obligation under the agreement , and legislation to implement the agreement will be introduce as soon as the legislative timetable allow . the UK have lead world - class conservation effort , and this Government have rightly commit to the landmark high seas treaty , but we must act now , as without ratification the UK risk lose its place in shape this vital treaty ' s implementation and future direction . can the Minister confirm when legislation to ratify the agreement will be introduce , or provide a clear timetable ? if we want to stay at the table , we must claim our seat . my hon . friend be quite right to push the Government on this issue , and the fcdo will redouble our effort in this place to make sure that we do the necessary work to conclude the legal process . I call the shadow Minister . the UK be a world leader in protect marine environment , particularly around the British Overseas Territories , but tragically that reputation will be trash when Labour surrender to Mauritius one of the most important marine protect area around the British Indian Ocean Territory . while Mauritian fishery Ministers have be pledge to issue fishing and trawl licence for those water , Labour Ministers have give no assurance about future protection , and have just make vague comment on work with Mauritius on a new MPA . can the Minister state if the propose treaty will have any guarantee protection in place ? will she confirm what be say in a legal letter to british Chagossians — that their right of return be not guarantee ? surely that would be a total betrayal . I thank the shadow Minister for his question . follow the trip that he and I do together when we be both on the Foreign Affairs Committee , I be sure he be aware that the marine protect area will continue and that the environment have be at the heart of the negotiation . indeed , he must remember that , because when he be the chair of the Chagos Islands all - party parliamentary group , he begin the debate with the Mauritians , so I be sure he be in a very good position to ask any further question that he may like to ask of the Mauritians . Official Development Assistance Budget which development programme he plan to maintain funding for after the plan reduction of the official development assistance budget in 2027 . this government be resolutely commit to development , but we recognise that we must do it differently . we will ensure that the aid budget deliver value for money and have impact globally . support and grow economy will be at the heart of how we spend ODA go forward , and further decision on the ODA budget , include specific programme , be subject to the spending review and resource allocation process . these severely constrain budget call for thinking smarter , not simply small , so what work be the Government do with the World Bank and other international institution to make sure that UK development spend be fully leveraged so that every penny be as effective as possible ? the right hon . member raise a very important point , and we of course continue to engage closely with our partner at the World Bank and other multilateral development institution . Multilateral co - operation allow a global scale of investment and delivery that outstrip what country can achieve alone . we be also look at other way , include through the important work of British International Investment and other body , so we be go to look across the board and multilaterally to increase our impact . the International Development ( Gender Equality ) Act 2014 say the Government must have due regard to spend aid in a way that contribute to gender equality . follow on from the early question , will the Minister confirm that support woman and girl be a ministerial priority and that we will continue fund vital programme that support woman and girl in many area ? it certainly be , and woman and girl will remain at the heart of our programming . I can assure my hon . friend that equality impact assessment be an essential part of how we make decision on ODA allocation . indeed , Minister Chapman will be appear before the International Development Committee later today , and I think she will be set out our approach to the equality impact assessment and other process . will the Minister ensure that Britain properly replenish Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance , a brilliant programme that have benefit so much from british leadership as well as taxpayer ' money ? when make his decision on how big that replenishment should be , will he remember that the polling show that 83 % of our constituent think this be a brilliant use of taxpayer ' money and that we should support it ? the right hon . Gentleman and I have engage on these issue for a long time , and he know that I recognise the importance of Gavi ' s work and that of other body such as the Global Fund . we be proud to have support Gavi to vaccinate over 1 billion child , save 18 million life and generate $ 250 billion in economic benefit . we be consider our next investment as part of the spending review process , and we look forward to the June event . the reduction to 0 . 3 % will require painful decision , but there be innovative financing mechanism on which Britain could lead — for example , increase special drawing right , use the exchange equalisation account , guarantee and debt relief . can the Minister commit to work with the Treasury to look at all these non - ODA instrument in which Britain could show leadership and fund our development programme ? I absolutely can make that commitment . I will not go into any individual item on my hon . friend ' s list of suggestion , but as I say in an early answer , we be look at all measure by which we can support development and economic growth globally , work with multilateral partner . victory in Europe Day what step his Department have take to commemorate victory in Europe Day . I be honour to attend the VE Day military procession , reception and service of remembrance alongside the Prime Minister and his Majesty the king last week . the event be a fitting tribute to the hundred of thousand of man and woman who make the ultimate sacrifice during the second world war . victory in Europe celebration in Suffolk Coastal last week be a poignant reminder of the need to continue to press for peace today both in Ukraine and in secure an end to the war in Palestine . do the Foreign Secretary agree with I that the lesson of world war two must not be forget as innocent civilian continue to face violence and warfare here in Europe and in the middle east ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . it be important to put on the record that the Commonwealth play a tremendous part in the second world war . our european partner play an important part , and Europe benefit greatly from the sacrifice make to fight fascism . wherever we see tyranny , we must continue to stand up for the right of innocent people , and I be proud to spend the next day in Lviv stand with those who be fight today . the centenary of the second world war be way into the future , but will the Foreign Secretary ensure that the UK do not repeat the mistake of the past when we be rather late come to the party with the international commemoration of the centenary of the great war ? will he say when we will engage with international partner to start prepare for the centenary of the second world war , and will his Department , the Cabinet Office or the Department for Culture , Media and Sport take the lead ? the right hon . Member ask an important question . enter my 25th year in Parliament , I be not sure that I will still be in Parliament on that occasion . however , he be right that we commemorate that appropriately , so I will ask the necessary question in the come day and update he . International Nature Restoration and Resilience Programmes what step he have take to support international programme on nature restoration and resilience . we can not address the urgency of the climate and nature crisis without co - ordinate global action . we be support nature restoration and resilience in many important way , include by protect and restore forest , work with indigenous people in the Amazon and Congo basin , and support vulnerable coastal community and ecosystem . last week mark the 99th birthday of Sir David Attenborough and the release of his powerful new film , " Ocean " . I encourage all member to watch it . it make a compelling case for ocean protection as essential to tackle climate change and restore nature . with the 2025 UN ocean conference in France fast approach , will my hon . friend ensure the UK arrive in the strong position for that conference by ratify the high seas treaty and deliver our domestic nature restoration goal through measure , include end bottom trawling in marine protect area ? let I wish a belate happy birthday to Sir David . his advocacy for the natural world be truly inspirational . we be committed to ratify the agreement , and we will introduce legislation to implement it as soon as the legislative timetable allow . release of Alaa Abd el - Fattah what recent progress he have make on help to secure the release of Alaa Abd el - Fattah . the Government be commit to secure Alaa ' s release , and we continue to raise his case at the high level of the egyptian Government . the Foreign Secretary have raise the case on multiple occasion , as have I . the national security adviser have also raise this case , as have the Prime Minister . I thank the Minister for his response . member of the family of Alaa Abd el - Fattah be again in the Gallery today , and his mother Laila have now not take food for seven month . I meet she again recently and she be so frail now . do the Minister agree that Alaa ' s arbitrary detention , long after his sentence end , continue in violation of the Vienna convention , and that there must be consequence for Egypt , include international legal option and new travel advice , give the evident danger to british national detain in Egypt ? I would also like to pay tribute to the fortitude and bravery of Alaa ' s family , both those in the Gallery and , of course , Laila , whom I have meet on a number of occasion and the Prime Minister have meet , too . we consider Alaa a british national . he hold both british and egyptian nationality . we have be clear on that point , even though it be dispute by the egyptian Government . we be committed to continue to work on this case . UN Ocean Conference what step he be take to prepare for the 2025 UN ocean conference . the UN ocean conference be an important moment for protect the ocean and progress towards UN sustainable development goal 14 , " Life below Water " . the UK be attend and actively involve in negotiate the political declaration for the conference . Sir David Attenborough ' s late film , " Ocean " reveal the shocking devastation cause by bottom trawling and ask the Government to take action at the UN conference in just four week . will the Government use the conference to announce a ban on all bottom trawl in marine protect area ? why have the Minister still not set out when we will ratify the ocean treaty , which will keep our small island develop state and overseas territory safe ? the climate and ocean adaptation and sustainable transition programme be improve vulnerable coastal community ' resilience to climate change , include : protect and restore coastal habitat ; support nature - base solution ; improve small - scale fishery management ; and , the issue my hon . friend raise , the use of bottom - tow gear over rock and reef habitat in 13 Marine Management Organisation area . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . through agile diplomacy , the Government be strike new deal in the national interest , with trade agreement with the United States and India , the first ever UK - EU summit next week and intense effort to deal with conflict around the world . yesterday , I host the Weimar + group of european leader in support of Ukraine . last week , I press for the welcome ceasefire between India and Pakistan . and every day I be strive to stop the killing in Gaza , so we can get the remain hostage , like Edan Alexander , home and aid to civilian . the Foreign Affairs Committee recently hear from the Falkland Islands Government about the urgent need for the UK Government to use the EU - UK reset as an opportunity to remove the detrimental post - brexit tariff on Falklands export . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with his Department and european counterpart to address those tariff for a new trade arrangement for the Falkland Islands ? I reassure the hon . Gentleman that we be always seek to reduce tariff burden for our overseas territory , and we be in ongoing discussion with the European Union in particular . Alawite , Druze and christian minority community in Syria be still live in fear of attack from militiaman . what step be the Government take to put pressure on the syrian Government to prevent any further attack ? my hon . friend have long be an advocate on these issue . we emphasise the necessity of demonstrate commitment to the protection of human right in all our engagement with the syrian Government . our public statement have also make it clear that civilian must be protect from violence , and those responsible hold to account . the protection of all civilian and their full inclusion in the transition process be vital for peace in Syria . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . can the Foreign Secretary explain specifically what the UK be get in return from China , have be China ' s big cheerleader in Europe ? have China commit to stop threaten people on british soil ? have he receive any new commitment from China on its adherence to the sino - british declaration to uphold freedom in Hong Kong , particularly with all the pernicious and malicious chinese activity in the United Kingdom ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her question . the important starting point on China be to be consistent and not to have four or five different China policy , which be what we have under the previous Government . we have be clear that there be area where we will co - operate with China , but she know that we challenge China every time we meet on Hong Kong and on Jimmy Lai . she also know there be area where we be absolutely clear that we will compete with China . we will be come forward with our China audit shortly , and we can have a wide discussion then . we have hear about and wait for the China audit for some time . China have repeatedly fail to take action to stop fuel Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine — we see President Xi stand side by side with Putin in Moscow just day ago . will the Foreign Secretary provide detail on the discussion that have take place with President Zelensky over his forthcoming visit to Turkey , and what direct support be Britain give for any discussion he will have with Putin to ensure that any peace be secure and win on Ukraine ' s term , in such a way that respect fundamental basic freedom and the principle that aggressor should never , ever win ? on 22 April , I raise concern with my chinese counterpart on China ' s supply of equipment to Russia and on the relationship with the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea — North Korea — and Russia and Iran . the right hon . Lady will know that I sanction chinese entity that be supply dual - use technology to the Russians , kill Ukrainians . I welcome that the UK Government be to convene an urgent session of the UN Security Council this afternoon to discuss the food situation in Gaza . will Ministers ensure that Dame Barbara Woodward take a message from my constituent , include Mairi MacKinnon , Ian Stephen , Louise Scullion and Malcolm MacLean , who express their disgust and condemnation of the israeli Government use food as a weapon of war ? there be 71 , 000 child in Gaza . will he ensure that that message be hear in New York ? order . come on — there be other people here . please help they . I thank my hon . friend for transmit his constituent ' concern , which I know be feel widely across this House . I can confirm that our permanent representative in New York will be express the full force of our view , as we hear early in this session . will the Minister confirm the state of the current negotiation over the future of Gibraltar , include whether they will be conclude before the EU - UK reset , and will he confirm that the view and interest of the gibraltarian people will be paramount ? the hon . Gentleman can be absolutely assure on that latter point . I speak to the Chief Minister of Gibraltar just this morning . we have be work closely with he and , indeed , with our EU and spanish counterpart , and all side agree on the importance of conclude a treaty as soon as possible . we be work closely with all the party in that regard , and we will only conclude an agreement that protect sovereignty and UK military autonomy , provide certainty for the people of Gibraltar and secure their future prosperity . we will endeavour to achieve that in due course . over the past few day , have report that an airport worker and his wife , who work in the NHS , have be raise fund in the UK through an unregistered charity call Zayir UK and send they to Hezbollah - link group in Lebanon . what step be the Minister take to ensure that charitable donation in the UK can not be use to fund terrorism in the middle east ? the entirety of Hezbollah have be proscribe in the UK since 2019 . raise money for terrorist organisation be a criminal offence . this government will continue to take robust action against those suspect of raise money for terrorist organisation in the middle east and around the world . nearly every single child be at risk of famine in Gaza as the israeli Government use starvation as a weapon of war . we have hear from Ministers today about the action that the Government have take so far , but there be still some action that they have not take , include the recognition of Palestine as a state , individual sanction and a total suspension of arm to Israel . if now be not the time to take those action , when will that be ? we be committed to recognise a palestinian state at a time that have the most impact in achieve a reality most conducive to long - term peace in the region , and we continue to talk to our partner about that . the other issue that the hon . Member raise have already be discuss in this session . give the Prime Minister ' s warn that the world have fundamentally change and that we be in a dangerous new era , will the Secretary of State commit to protect the British Council and its soft power role in strengthen global relationship , and do he agree that any cut to its support would undermine decade of trust UK diplomacy ? the British Council have no great champion than Labour Ministers on the Front Bench . it do a fantastic job to promote the UK abroad . across this House , we love the British Council . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) raise a point of order yesterday follow the Department ' s failure to respond to a letter from a number of hon . member ask the Secretary of State to come to the House to make a statement on alarm research that show that the UK continue to send large - scale export of lethal weaponry to Israel . may I beseech the Secretary of State to make a statement to the House on this matter ? if he be not willing to do so , can he confirm that all statement that he have make in this House since September 2024 relate to arm export to Israel have be completely accurate and fully transparent ? yes , I can . will my hon . friend confirm that this Government be totally opposed to the expansion of Israel ' s military operation in Gaza and be four - square behind restore the ceasefire ? as I say last week , we be oppose to an expansion of Israel ' s military operation . I be also ask about the israeli Finance Minister ' s comment about the destruction of Gaza — comment that I have not see at the time . I have since see they and I condemn they . I call Alistair Carmichael . I apologise , Mr Speaker ; I have not realise that my name be on the Order Paper . I call Matthew Patrick . on Sunday , I have the honour of meet Emily Damari . she tell I about her good friend , Ziv and Gali Berman , who remain in captivity . it be so clear to I that no hostage will be free until all hostage be free . Hamas footage at the weekend serve only to deliver more torment to the family . will the Minister set out , before the 600 day - anniversary later this month of the 7 October attack , the step he will be take to ensure humanitarian access for those hostage ? I welcome the release of Edan Alexander after an agonising 583 day in captivity , and I thank Qatar and Egypt for their support . we urge all party to seize this opportunity to re - engage with negotiation and return to a ceasefire . that be what will see the return of those hostage . when I discuss this with Secretary of State Rubio and , indeed , with partner in Qatar and Saudi Arabia , I urge they to raise those issue with the President this week . be a pattern emerge where the Trump Administration take initially extreme position on international trade and foreign policy and then quickly re - adjust to more realistic and sensible policy ? what opportunity do that give for british diplomacy ? in many way , that question be well put to President Trump and I do not want to speak for he . none the less , I be pleased that the United Kingdom be the first country to strike a trade agreement with the United States . many international partner be now ring we up to ask we how we do it . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I know that a lot be go on , but the biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction treaty be important . it be about our blue planet and our ocean , in which we use to have a leadership position . when we be lead it , 115 country sign that treaty , but it need to be ratify as well , and very few country be ratify it , include Britain . when we ask the Government about it , they say that it be because they do not have enough time . have they drop the ball , be there a Bill , will we ratify it , and will we ratify it before the UN Oceans Conference ? we will redouble our effort to get into the legislative queue and do all that be necessary to maintain our leadership in this important area . today we welcome the release of Edan Alexander , the late hostage free by Hamas , after over 500 day in captivity . the fact that they still have people in captivity be disgraceful and barbaric and put into perspective the fact that the group Kneecap be be platforme in Croydon , after they shout support for Hamas from a stage . what pressure be the Government put on the palestinian authority to ensure that the remain hostage be return to their family as they should be ? they should never have be take in the first place . we continue , with all our partner , to call for the immediate release of all hostage . I think particularly of Avinatan or , who have a british mother and who be still in captivity under who know what condition . we will continue to press for the release of all hostage . on 15 May we will commemorate the 77th anniversary of the 1948 Nakba , which see hundred of thousand of Palestinians displace from their home and dispossess , and it still continue today . I pay tribute to Ministers for the diplomacy they be engage in and for the recent memorandum of understanding that be agree with Palestine , but the child of Gaza can not wait week and month . they need food and water now . what more can we do ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for continue to raise these issue . we have a meeting of the UN Security Council this afternoon . it be important that I speak to colleague in Saudi Arabia and the UAE the weekend before last about these issue and with partner in the region , particularly as President Trump visit . I be very concerned follow a meeting with my german counterpart about israeli decision to reduce the number of distribution point , and we will be make these representation very actively over the come day . Speaker ' s statement it be not often in this House that we recognise a former civil servant , but before we proceed to the next business I would like to pay tribute to Sir Roy Stone , who die yesterday . it feel far too soon , give that he only retire from his role as principal private secretary to the Government Chief Whip in 2021 — a role he hold for more than 20 year , serve 13 Chief Whips , and in turn this office , with great distinction . work in No . 10 before he join the Whips Office , Roy serve every Prime Minister from Margaret Thatcher to Boris Johnson . he be virtually invisible outside this place , but those who be involve in this tricky business of keep the parliamentary machinery run smoothly all know he well . Roy be , despite the sometimes fearsome reputation of the Whips Office , a kind and generous man , loyal to his principle as well as to his political master . he be highly respected and hold in great affection by those in the civil service and with whom he work closely . there be many member and staff in all part of both Houses who work with he and benefit from his advice and guidance . I know that they will be deeply sadden by this news . as we know , the usual channel be not something we ever discuss . that just show the great man we be talk about . I be sure the whole House will wish to join I in send our condolence to Roy ' s family : his wife Dawn , daughter Hannah and son Elliott . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . it be by convention unusual for the Government Chief Whip to address the House . it be also by convention forbid to refer by name to those who hold the office of principal private secretary to the Government Chief Whip . it be a measure of Sir Roy ' s service that today we lie those convention aside . Sir Roy be the literal embodiment of the usual channel for more than two decade , ensure each day that while the Government get their business , the opposition be able to scrutinise their work . as I look back on what be , on occasion , tumultuous time in this place , Sir Roy be , with skill and integrity , the constant that hold thing together . Trust be place in he and his wise counsel be seek over many year . I send my deep condolence on behalf of the Government to his family , friend and the many staff who work with he . such be Sir Roy Stone ' s diligence and long service that one could be forgive for think that work be his main concern , but I know from speak to he that his main priority be always his family , of whom he be tremendously proud . they should be equally proud of he . my thought be with they at this difficult time . I call the shadow Leader of the House . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . you have say much that be true and good , and it be hard to improve on what you say as well as the Chief Whip , but may I add a few word ? Roy Stone go into the civil service at the age of 16 and serve his entire life there and in this House . twelve Chief Whips across extraordinary moment be the beneficiary of his sage counsel and advice . I think the House will be aware that there be several occasion on which I be able to benefit from his advice in somewhat tumultuous time , have offend various senior politician . I do not always get a meeting with the Chief Whip with coffee — as hon . member know , that be the key test — but Sir Roy and his team be the model of professional expertise , diligence , discretion , care and candid advice throughout . the fact that he have be take from we so quickly , so prematurely and so early into his long - deserve retirement be , I be sure , a source of the utmost sadness for every Member of this House . I be sure that I speak for all member of his Majesty ' s opposition . we will remember he with great fondness for a very long time . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I have to admit to shed a tear last night when I hear the news of Sir Roy ' s pass . within nine month of join the House in 2019 , I become the Chief Whip of a small group of 11 , and he treat I and my party with the utmost respect . he be the first person to refer to I as " chief " — sadly , my family have not pick up that term — which show the respect he have for the House , MPs and the party they represent . I value his counsel . we sometimes take the daily business for grant , but it be testament to the work of the usual channel and the Government Whips Office that we end up with the business and debate we have in this place . my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) be sit with I . when Sir Roy leave his role and the House in 2021 , we take he for dinner at the Liberal Club . I will just say that the club ' s standard of service be exactly what my right hon . friend and I expect they to be ; I will say no more on that . Sir Roy be the epitome of the good of the civil service . we have good conversation , but it be fair to say that no confidence be betray . I be very sadden to hear of his loss . my thought and my party ' s thought be with his family . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . in his role in the usual channel , Sir Roy Stone have a unique influence in this place , as we have hear , work for decade for the Government Chief Whip and the Leader of the Opposition , provide advice to both and protect the confidence of both , but answer honestly to each . those in the usual channel hold the only role in government that mean work for both the Government and the opposition ; Roy manage the Whips Offices for both . the british public see adversarial politic and party in this Chamber , but for decade , Roy and his team organise and co - ordinate legislation , debate , recess , statement and urgent question and manage the relationship between the party . Woe betide any Chief Whip who try to change Roy ' s recess schedule , which be almost always in tandem with the Kent school holiday break . every political science course in the country should have dedicate module on the usual channel and Sir Roy Stone . Roy ' s dominance of this behind - the - scene role make he one of the most impactful and consequential civil servant of his time . despite be fair to all side , he be political to his core , not least during the hung Parliament and Brexit . during that time , he be passionate about and focus on support the Government to deliver on the referendum , and be increasingly frustrated with we politician , and in particular I , for fail to deliver a meaningful vote . Roy love his central role in this place , and have the respect , if not always the agreement , of everyone , politician and civil servant alike . despite all the stress and strain in that most demanding period of parliamentary history , which be when I work with he , what shine out be the love for and commitment to his family : his brother , who be ill with cancer during the Brexit year ; and his wife Dawn and child Hannah and Elliott . in particular , there be pride in Elliott ' s commitment to the RAF , in which he be a cadet , and of which he be now a full - time member . a patriot at work , a patriot at home . rest in peace , Sir Roy Stone . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . Roy be political to his core . he love this place more than anyone could possibly imagine . he regularly get quite frustrated with government and Prime Ministers . I will always remember arrive at the office on my first day as Chief Whip , and see his look of frustration and irritation , which say , " who on earth have they send I now ? he ' s never be in the Whips Office . " I remember Roy sit I down and explain that he work for I 51 % of the time and for the Opposition the other 49 % . I want he to shift the dial a little more in my favour , but he be never go to do that . I ask he , rather naively , what I should read , and whether it be worth pick up " Erskine May " . he look at I and say , " chief , only strange people and clerk read ' Erskine May ' . " yet there be a not a page in " Erskine May " that he do not know . Roy start as an apprentice in the Ministry of Defence , work his way through to no . 10 Downing Street and get briefing ready for Prime Ministers , and then go into the Whips Office . all that equip he to understand raw politic . as anyone who have be Chief Whip will know , it be deputy , not Chief Whips , who whip their party ; Chief Whips have to manage the Prime Minister and the Cabinet . they be there to save the Government from do incredibly stupid thing to themselves every single day — or that be the case in my day . I have a feeling that might not have change that much . I would sometimes come into the office and Roy ' s eye would roll ; he have hear the news about the late decision emanating from no . 10 . yet he would always sit down , talk through the problem and give solution — a potential way out of the awful mess that you find yourself in . I particularly recall the day after the 2017 general election . for those who be not here , it have not go quite as well as we have hope . I arrive at the beautiful Chief Whips Office in Downing Street and Roy , who be as good with his Anglo - Saxon word as any man — I will not say the word he use , but it rhyme with " cluck " — say , " well , you cluck screw that one up , didn ' t you ? what be you go to do ? " at the time , the Prime Minister be in shock and not really do an awful lot , and it fall to the Whips Office to work out how we take thing forward . sit down with Roy to work thing out be essential to our put together a deal with the Democratic Unionist party — a deal that make sure that the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) do not have the opportunity to form a Government in 2017 , or since . Roy live and breathe politic , but also care about nothing more than his family . I would hear he talk with such pride about his daughter at university , and about his son , whom he take to countless event relate to swimming , and then to the RAF . altogether , Roy be a good friend . just a few week ago , I be sit down with he , have a cup of coffee and talk about his family . we talk about the difficult time , but also the amazing time . he will be so miss . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I want to pass on the sincere condolence of the Scottish National party to the family and friend of Roy Stone , and I really hope that they take comfort from today ' s proceeding . we speak of Roy in such term not just because we respect he , but because we like he . he be a likeable guy who be great company and such fun to be with . I will never forget the kindness that Roy show I as a new Member of this House , and as a recently instal Chief Whip who do not have a clue about House business or procedure . he patiently run through how the House work ; get a lesson from Roy Stone on parliamentary procedure be something that I will never forget . I be represent a group of five , and Roy have time for we all . the SNP finally get access to the usual channel when we become the third party in the House , and I be able to observe how effectively he do his work . I will never be in government , unlike other who be pay tribute today , but I see how seamlessly Roy be able to serve government of different hue , and how the ship of state sail on under his stewardship and command . Roy be the absolute epitome of public service and commitment to this House , which he love , and we will all miss he dearly . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . thank you for allow this quite exceptional but fitting tribute , which I be sure will give some comfort to Sir Roy ' s wife Dawn and his child , Hannah and Elliott . it be my privilege to work with Sir Roy during the first three and a half year of the coalition Government . coalition government have never be do in this country in modern peacetime . the coalition require service to not one party but two in government , and for Sir Roy , it be a time of change and challenge , but they be all challenge that he take impeccably in his stride . there be many anecdote that I could tell you , Mr Speaker , but unfortunately , too many of those who be involve be still alive , and there be limit to how far one can push parliamentary privilege . the genius of Sir Roy Stone be that he never betray any personal political view . that be how he be able to serve government of all stripe . the dignity of Parliament and of the business of government really matter to he . there be only one occasion when I see Sir Roy ' s mask slip . it be the early day of the coalition Government . the Liberal Democrat Whips Office be in the business of babysitting , and on this occasion it involve an actual baby ; it be not the normal babysitting that the Whips Office be call on to do . inevitably , as happen with baby , there be a need for a nappy to be change . I take the baby — I think it be Jenny Willott ' s son , Toby — into my office , and I have lay he on the sofa and be change his nappy when Sir Roy Stone appear in the doorway . one glimpse at his face tell I that this scene realise his bad fear about have Liberal Democrats in government . Sir Roy care about both Government and Parliament , and be able to serve both require very distinctive and particular talent . it be a privilege to work with he and to have the benefit of those talent . for those who mourn he , especially his family , the recognition of those talent should be an endure comfort . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I first know Sir Roy Stone when I become leader of my group after the 2017 general election . he do , in fact , pass view on the Chief Whips of the time , but I think they be probably well keep to myself for now , because some of they be in the Chamber . he be immensely supportive , and as the leader of a very small group , I learn so much from he . it be the first time that the group have have meeting with the Chief Whip . I speak on behalf of a small party , and Sir Roy ' s respect for Parliament , and for the presence of small party in it , be evident . he feel that we have a role to play , and he enable we to play that role very effectively . my last memory of Sir Roy be from just after he leave . a member of staff , Fflur Elin , could play the harp . Sir Roy find that out , and nothing would do but for Fflur to bring in say harp to play for he . it have be an honour to know he , and people ' s recollection of he today tell I that he have immense influence on all of we here . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . on behalf of the Democratic Unionist party , I want to convey to the family of Sir Roy Stone our deep condolence at this time of tragedy and grief . to serve under a number of Prime Ministers and Chief Whips be no easy task , but he be always fair and impartial . he contribute loyally and with great wisdom . I would not like to say anything against any of the Chief Whips in my party , but I have probably challenge they all , and to be perfectly honest , I probably still do . Sir Roy ' s advice be much seek after and liberally give . he set a standard for other to follow , and to admire from a distance . it be always good to cite the Bible at these time ; he have run the race , he have fight the good fight and there be many crown lay up for he in heaven . thank you , Sir Roy , and God bless all the family at this time . these really have be fitting tribute to Sir Roy Stone . he will always be in our thought and memory because of what he do for this House . I know that the Clerks feel the same way . Mansion House Accord ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if she will make a statement on the Mansion House accord . Mr Speaker , I would like to associate myself with your tribute and those of other member to Sir Roy Stone , who be a true public servant , and a servant of this House . pension matter . they underpin not just the retirement that we all look forward to , but the investment on which our future prosperity depend . this morning , 17 workplace pension scheme provider , between they manage about 90 % of active saver ' define contribution pension , sign the Mansion House accord . the accord be propose and develop by the industry , specifically by the Lord Mayor , the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association and the Association of British Insurers , and build on the work of the former Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , who be in his place . signatory to the accord have pledge to invest 10 % of their main default fund in private asset by 2030 . these be productive asset that boost the economy , such as infrastructure . at least 5 % will be for UK asset . this investment could support well outcome for saver and deliver growth finance to Britain ' s world - lead science and technology business . it could also support clean energy development across the country , deliver great energy security and job . the shift towards great investment in private asset be a journey that the sector be already on , because everyone recognise that UK define contribution scheme stand out relative to their international peer for how little they invest in those area . this be right for saver because it be in their interest for pension fund to hold a diverse range of asset , and it be in Britain ' s interest . this Government want to see high investment level in the UK . we can not continue with the low business investment in the G7 , as we manage under the previous Administration . supply of capital be part of that — and today ' s agreement be expect to release £ 25 billion of additional investment into the UK economy by 2030 — but so be the supply of project to invest in : the pipeline . our job as a Government be to support the depth and visibility of that pipeline , and that be why we be get this country build once again . the accord be an industry - lead agreement — nevertheless , I hugely welcome it . the pension industry ' s decision to invest in more productive asset , from grow company to infrastructure , will support well outcome for saver and fast growth for Britain . in the come week , the Government will publish the conclusion of the pension investment review to support the move to big and well pension scheme . we will implement the review ' s reform , and other to improve return for saver , in the forthcoming pension scheme Bill , which I look forward to present to the House . may I start by associate myself with the very fine tribute make to Sir Roy Stone ? my condolence go to his family . no response from the Chancellor , we see , but I thank the Minister for his statement . the retirement income of million of UK saver rely on the careful management of pension fund . those pension provider have a fiduciary duty to act in the good financial interest of their member . we on the conservative Benches support effort to ensure pension fund be invest in asset that can both increase UK productivity and growth , and deliver strong , stable return for investor and saver . indeed , that be the purpose of the first Mansion House compact , which be broker by the last Conservative Government . as we well know , Labour Ministers have a habit of think they know well what to do with other people ' s money , but it should ultimately be the responsibility of the provider , which have be entrust by saver with their money , to make investment decision . report that the Government intend to take new power to mandate pension fund to allocate minimum amount to specific class of asset should be a matter of great concern to this House . can the Minister confirm whether the Government intend to take such legislative power in the pension Bill later this year ? if he can not rule out make such a move , can he explain what it would mean for the exist fiduciary duty set out in legislation ? major player in the industry , include Scottish Widows , have reportedly refuse to take part in the late iteration of the Mansion House compact . can the hon . Gentleman explain to the House why that be , what discussion he and other Ministers have have with Scottish widow and other that have choose not to take part , and what concern they have raise ? let I be clear : we on the Conservative Benches want a pension industry that be invest in grow UK business , infrastructure , housing and all those element that drive a healthy economy , but it also have to be for the benefit of saver . of course , the risk in this case would be bear entirely by private sector worker , while public sector worker would be protect . finally , we be clear that pension saving should never be there to dig a Chancellor out of the economic hole that she have make . I will directly address two question and then come to the overall tone of the shadow Chancellor ' s remark . there have be a debate across this House and in the wide industry about mandation , include on UK equity . it have be lead by conservative peer in the House of Lords — Baroness Altmann have call for exactly that — and by some member in this House , include the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) on the conservative Benches . what we be set out a voluntary agreement lead by the industry . on the industry consensus behind the accord , 90 % of the define contribution industry , by active saver , have sign up this morning — and all provider , include those that do not sign up today , be commit to the idea of more investment in private asset . more generally , the shadow Chancellor ' s tone be disappointing . the truth be that he be a lonely figure . there be a wide consensus about the direction of travel to invest more in private asset , as canadian and australian pension fund do , and today ' s accord be industry lead ; it set benchmark agree by the industry , and in fact many industry player want to go far . there should be cross - party consensus . at the event this morning , the Chancellor spell out that this work build on the work of her predecessor in support the 2023 Mansion House compact . the shadow Chancellor will remember that compact because it be sign under a Conservative Government when he be the Work and Pensions Secretary — he be in the press release , champion it . he be right then , and he be let himself down now . I have some news : a response to the accord have just come in from Guy Opperman . hon . member will remember he , because he be the conservative former Member for Hexham and the only Pensions Minister in the last government to last more than five minute ; he be in post for five year . what do he say about this morning ' s accord ? he say that it be a " good thing " and " should be welcome " — he be not wrong . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a trustee of the parliamentary contributory pension fund . the point about fiduciary duty have be make . give that fund manager will need time to pool together fund that reflect the Government ' s wish and the voluntary accord , when do the Minister expect it to kick in ? at that point , might he consider mandation ? the decision by the industry , reflect the question that the Chair of the Select Committee raise about pace of change , be that the target for asset allocation be for 2030 . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . liberal Democrats cautiously welcome the response from the Minister . clearly , ensure that people have a good return on their investment be essential , but we welcome this step change where we be look at investment within the United Kingdom within the appropriate parameter . would the Minister unpick for we what core lesson he have learn from Australia and Canada , which have already embark on this path ? also , it have long be a long - term investment opportunity for many in the pension industry to invest in rental opportunity . how can we drive the opportunity in the social rent sector through the accord ? finally , the Minister rightly talk about a pipeline of opportunity . our fear be that these might only be large opportunity , such as the redevelopment of an airport , when many of our community be worry by the collapse of our town centre ; there could be bucket of opportunity highlight there , which could be drive by appropriate investment through source like this . it be characteristically bold of the Liberal Democrats to cautiously welcome these measure . however , the hon . member be right to raise the question of Australia and Canada . we look across at place with similar pension scheme to those in the UK , and the level of private asset allocation in those scheme be far high than we see here in the UK , so he be absolutely right on that front . on the two specific point the hon . member raise , I agree on investment in the social rent sector . many of our pension fund be already do that , and I know that other major one will be make announcement in that area in the month ahead . he also raise the breadth of investment opportunity . he be absolutely right that there be large , national - level project , but there be also many more local project . where those be finance by the private sector , pension scheme may want to look at they as well . will the Minister spell out how this deal provide real change for constituent across the country , and what it mean for infrastructure project , especially housing ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be no way that Britain can return to growth unless it start invest in its future again , rather than live in its past , which be , if we be honest , what we have be do in recent year . this be part of a much wide story . I hope that there be cross - party consensus — there be certainly consensus across the pension industry , and among most economist who look at the UK economy — that we need to move to a high investment level . the finance for that be one thing ; some come from abroad and some come in domestically , but it also need to come from our pension scheme . obviously , it be for the public sector to play its part , but we should be careful in distinguish this . the Government be do our bit on public investment level , with £ 113 billion extra of public investment compare with the plan inherit from the Conservative Government . that be do a lot of the work to move we to the high investment equilibrium , but there be lot of project , and in the end most investment happen in the private sector . that be where I welcome the progress make by the pension industry today . I thank the Minister for build on the work of the Mansion House reform that I introduce two year ago . Westminster work well when government do not automatically tear up the work of their predecessor . who know , with this constructive attitude , we may see some tax cut in the autumn Budget . do the Minister agree that there be a circularity in the argument that the reason pension fund do not invest in the UK be because return be low here ? in Australia and America , the stock market can depend on more than 40 % of pension fund asset invest domestically to create big return , compare with just 4 % in the UK . do he agree that if we be really to make these reform fly , we will need to involve the 28 , 000 define benefit scheme as well as the 4 , 000 define contribution scheme ? that be more like it ! that be what we want to hear from the Conservatives . the right hon . Gentleman rightly say that progress be make under the previous Administration . I have make that clear , and the Chancellor make that very clear this morning , as I say . I have discuss with many lead member of the pension industry the fact that we be explicitly build on the progress that the right hon . Gentleman make , rather than throw any baby out with the bathwater — even after they have have their nappy change by the previous Lib Dem Chief Whip , the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) . I very grateful to the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) for the tone of his question . he be also right to highlight the lack of UK bias in some of our pension scheme . we see that right across asset class , and it be not in the interest of the country in the long term . as he know , the focus today be on private asset , but we do need to think more broadly . what be we all after ? we be after well - function capital market , both public and private , and these reform will make a big difference in that regard . I be not say that there be not more to be do ; I be sure that there be , and that he will continue to play an active part in those debate . the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee inquiry into the innovation and growth of the region have repeatedly hear evidence that the lack of access to investment , particularly outside London and the south - east , be a barrier to scale up our fantastic science and tech start - up , so I welcome the commitment to put more of our pension and saving into the productive economy — and I be rather surprised by the response of the shadow Chancellor . will the Minister say a little more about how these commitment will support growth through innovation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . she have long talk about both the issue that she raise : the regional balance of investment and the ability of grow firm to get hold of growth finance . the latter be a long - stand problem in the UK economy , and today ' s accord will help to address it . although we talk about private asset and investment help with infrastructure , it be also about provide growth capital to a wide range of firm . obviously , the onus be on we and private asset manager to provide way for pension fund to direct capital . those be often small - ticket item , and pension fund will need they to be aggregate up to a high level . that be exactly the work of the British Business Bank , which I know she have engage with through the Select Committee . on both point , she be 100 % right . undoubtedly , the City of London be not in the good possible place when it come to where it be invest and the amount invest in UK equity . when I be a Minister , we have the Hill review , the Kent review , the Austin review and the capital market review . everything be do to seek to open up the City to more initial public offering and more momentum . this systemic undervaluing of UK equity , and therefore the lack of investment in they , need to be set alongside the fact that billion of pound of taxpayer ' money be use to enrich the size of pension scheme through tax relief . I urge the Minister to continue engage with the City . I welcome the voluntary commitment give , but we must come to the point where the risk - aversion of DB scheme be call out , consider the amount of taxpayer ' money that be effectively go into they . will the Minister continue to look carefully at the option available , give that the previous Government seek — and his Government will no doubt continue to seek — to meet they wherever possible ? I always enjoy discuss these thing with the right hon . member , as we have do over recent month . he offer a recognition of the challenge face the country , and in focus on what we can do to start change thing , he take a much well position than that adopt by his Front Benchers . I recognise the right hon . member ' s point about risk - aversion . there be a need for more innovation in our pension landscape more generally — that be one of the area in which I be glad to see progress . I take a slightly more positive view than he do on the consensus that thing need to change . we be see that in the pension industry more generally , partly in relation to invest in a wide range of asset , as well as in embrace the agenda that we be set out for a small number of big pension fund that be able to take different kind of risk . the right hon . Member ask specifically about public equity . my view be that the accord from the industry today will support that by fund a pipeline of company that can grow to the level at which they can list publicly . also , private asset will include private share , include the alternative investment market and other . I think the picture be slightly more positive than the one he paint , but I be not hide from the wide question he raise about capital market . the UK Government , the Chancellor and my colleague the City Minister be focus on that — he will have hear their word on ISA reform and the rest of it . I look forward to further conversation on that . how will my hon . friend bring together UK pension scheme and local and regional government in order to invest in local infrastructure project , give that european and global pension scheme invest when UK pension scheme too often do not ? my hon . Friend ask a great and important question . we will have more to say on this in the month ahead as we come forward with the final report of the pension investment review and the pension scheme Bill . some local government pension scheme have a track record of invest locally , but we need to see that at scale , and we need to see it crowd in private investment , include perhaps from private pension fund . that be exactly what our package of reform , combine with the industry ' s work with the accord today , will help we to deliver . he be absolutely right to push we on that , as I be sure he will continue to do in the month ahead give his record in previous role . we want high investment level , not just in some part but in all part of the country . over the past 10 year , the Dow Jones have grow by 133 % , the german DAX by 115 % and the Nikkei by 87 % , while the FTSE 100 have grow by 23 % . it be against that backdrop that there be concern about investment in the United Kingdom . as other member have say , give the fiduciary duty on asset manager , would they not be invest in the UK anyway if they think that they be go to get the good return for their policyholder ? if they be not already do so , what have change to ensure that that fiduciary duty be uphold as asset manager be coerce by the Chancellor to invest in market that they would not otherwise have invest in ? clearly , the hon . Member have not even read the accord . it talk about private asset . [ interruption . ] no , the accord be about private asset while he mention public asset . he also adopt the very market fundamentalist view that there be no role for Government at all , which be odd give what I hear he talk about in the Chamber day in , day out . lastly , he also adopt extreme pessimism about the future of the country . I be much more positive about Britain than he be ; that be not surprising , because his job be to pull it apart . in its first six month , the National Wealth Fund , base in Leeds , have fuel almost 10 , 000 job and unlock £ 1 . 8 billion of private investment . can the Minister confirm that this deal will equal more investment in british business ? my hon . friend be a powerful advocate for Leeds and for Britain every single week in this Chamber , and everything she say be completely right . the job of the National Wealth Fund and the British Business Bank be to work with our nation and region to ensure that project can be de - risk and support and that a wide range of private investor can come in behind that and make sure change actually happen , so that this become a country that invest in its future once again . at a time when we have be commemorate a significant anniversary of VE Day , do the Minister share my concern that certain large pension firm be refuse to invest in profitable defence industry on spurious ethical ground ? be that something that his pension investment review might care to investigate ? I hear the point the right hon . Gentleman raise , and we have have those debate in this Chamber in recent month . the UK Government be do what they need to do to invest in our security and defence and to support our defence industry more generally . we have make it very clear that private investment in those sector be the right thing to do for our national security and our national economic growth . so far today , there have be call for mandation and call to oppose any mandation . there be choice available within pension fund for saver . the vast majority of fund — I think it be 99 % within the National Employment Savings Trust , for example — invest in the broad default and do invest in the like of defence company . I warmly welcome the statement . one of the most woeful thing about our national story have be the lack of investment in infrastructure , but that story be not just about gdp and productivity at a national level ; it be also about place . in Peterborough , the lack of investment over the last decade have be woeful . I know that the public sector can not do it all itself . while I put on record my thank to the Department for Transport for this week announce business case approval and funding for our station regeneration project , can the Minister explain how this policy will help investment in place like mine ? do it truly meet the definition of " far and fast " ? I be sure that Ministers in the Department for Transport will have hear my hon . friend ' s word and that his butter up will have the desire effect over the year to come . he be right to highlight the synergy between public and private investment . we need to see high level of public investment , which be why this Government be put in place £ 113 billion over these five year . that be be do because it will deliver real , tangible progress that people can see in their street . why do people think Britain go backward over the last 15 year ? there be lot of reason , but high up the list be visible pothole on every single road in Britain . we be turn that around as we speak . that wide investment also give confidence to the private sector , and we see that across the piece — wherever we be deliver regeneration project with public sector investment support they , it crowd in private investment in exactly the way my hon . friend set out . before I be elect to this place , I be a trustee of one of the large public pension fund , and a lot of the correspondence I receive be from retired social worker who be quite grumpy about their fund be invest in extractive industry company list in London . we know that more young people will opt in to invest if they be comfortable with what their pension fund be invest in . what more can the Government do to engage with the industry but also with young saver to ensure there be pension option that reflect their investment preference ? the hon . Lady be right to say that we see high engagement level among young people today in invest more broadly . whenever I go into a school sixth form , a surprising volume of the question be not , unfortunately for I , on what the Government be do and how we will bring inequality down and get growth up , but be instead , " how do we make a lot of money quite quickly ? " we should support that level of engagement and active investment . on the hon . Lady ' s specific point , scheme be require to set out their policy and approach , and many pension scheme provide member with option for how they wish their fund to be invest . nothing that have be set out today on the accord get in the way of those approach that be already in place . I warmly welcome the Mansion House accord and the Minister ' s statement . during the last Parliament , I have the pleasure of take part in a cross - party visit with the then hon . member for Hexham to see a solar farm that be fund by pension investment . it be a wonderful scheme close to the M4 and my constituency . could the Minister say a little more about how this announcement will support much broad investment in the green transition , both in the south of England and across the country ? I have benefit from conversation with my hon . friend about this topic , give his previous experience . he be completely right to set out that one of the large reason — although not the only one — why we need to move to be a high investment country be that our energy infrastructure have to be upgrade , and fast , if we be go to give this country the energy security it need . he mention solar . this Government sign off in a matter of day and week a string of solar farm that need to be invest in and that have be sit on Ministers ' desk for year after year . more broadly , when the Leader of the opposition stand up and say , " we don ' t want to see this progress on net zero , " what she be really do be put up a sign across Britain say , " close for business . " some 5 , 500 define - benefit scheme have £ 1 . 6 trillion - worth of asset . the trouble be that the regulatory environment be skew toward buy an insurance policy at the end of that journey . in order to change the way in which trustee and fund manager invest , the Minister have to change the end state . what discussion have he have with the Pensions Regulator and the Association of British Insurers about change that particular game ? we have discuss some of these issue in the past , and I look forward to the conversation that I be sure we will have in future , not least around the pension scheme Bill . it be true that for many in the industry , buy - out of their define - benefit scheme be the end point they be look to reach , and the number that can reach that point have rise significantly in the recent past as more scheme have move into surplus . our job be to provide a range of option for those DB scheme . we have discuss the superfund regime that we will bring forward regulation on through the pension scheme Bill . we have also talk in the last few month about the role of surplus release , which can benefit both employer who want to make investment but also scheme member . the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight that there be a range of option available to scheme , and they can take the one that be in the good interest of their member . the Mansion House accord be clearly a welcome step in align the UK ' s pool of domestic pension capital with long - term growth , great economic sovereignty and financial security in retirement . for this to succeed , we need great clarity in who be step up , so can the Minister update the House on what discussion he be have with the industry about how firm intend to report progress under the accord in a clear and transparent way ? my hon . friend be completely right , but I would use a slightly more optimistic tone . it be now the settle consensus of the entire define - contribution industry that this be the direction we need to move in . almost every single scheme be move to think about how they will invest in a wide range of private asset . many of they be look to go far than the benchmark set out in the accord today . they want to do that because it be in their saver ' interest . it diversify their asset and , over the long term , lead to high return on average . the exact amount of those return will obviously depend , but study show that it range from 2 % to 12 % high return . it be absolutely in saver ' interest , and I think there be a broad consensus about do that . my hon . friend be also right to say that we need to make sure that change happen . we will come forward in the pension scheme Bill with more detail about how these development will be monitor to make sure that change be deliver , because in the end , what the british people want to see be less talk about this and more actual investment . pension fund be , by definition , long - term capital and be therefore particularly well suited to be invest in long - term infrastructure . british pension fund invest in british infrastructure should be welcome by we all , but I would caution against any specific mandating within sector , which I fear may lead to low performance . the thing about private market be that they have almost no transparency in term of valuation and liquidity . I urge the Government to encourage the pension fund voluntarily to be more open about how they value these private investment , to ensure great confidence . I thank the hon . member for what I think be his support for the accord — indicate assent . he be nod , so I will take that as support . he will worry that he sound dangerously like a liberal Democrat when he sit on the fence as much as he just do . at least the shadow Chancellor have the gut to say he oppose it , because he think that that be simple politic to get he through the day . I be glad to see that the hon . Member have not learn enough , and I hope he enjoy the fence sit while it last . the hon . member be right to say that scheme will want to be transparent about their asset allocation , partly so that saver can see what be go on , but also , to refer back to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) , so that the country as a whole can see that progress be be make . it be a disappointing but unsurprising response from the Conservative Front Bench , and similarly from the SNP , to talk our country down . I congratulate those in the City on this announcement , which will mean new funding for company across the UK , drive growth . will the Minister set out what this mean for constituent such as mine in Central Ayrshire and across Scotland ? that be a characteristically punchy and accurate contribution by my hon . friend , and that be the difference between this Government and some of the Opposition party : we want to see Britain succeed . we be invest in Britain ' s success , and in the long run it will be high investment , high growth and high wage that will turn round the long 15 year of stagnation . the Daily Mail have say in its coverage of the accord today that industry leader have warn that the Government must deliver a pipeline of investment opportunity to meet the new target . what faith can saver have that this government can deliver on that give that they tout GB Energy as a fantastic investment vehicle when in fact it be a damp squib ? saver can have lot of confidence , because the pipeline be already be deliver : solar farm approve ; onshore wind happen after be ban for year under the Conservatives ; the national grid actually be build out for once ; home be build right across this country , and be oppose by conservative mp right across this country . the pipeline be happen , because this country be build once again . I welcome the agreement that have be reach today . do the Minister agree that the pension fund be able to make those ambitious commitment only because of the improved investment environment that this Labour Government be nurture through economic stability — economic stability that be vital to protect work people , include those in Paisley and Renfrewshire South ? exactly ; that be what be go on . I speak to pension fund every week who say they be look to increase their allocation of UK asset because political stability have be deliver — because Liz Truss have be exit from this building . I speak to australian and canadian pension fund as well who be say that they want to open an office in the UK because political and economic stability have arrive . increase investment in the United Kingdom be always welcome . will the Minister confirm that this Government will never interfere in the fiduciary duty of pension trustee to get the good return for their member ? the job of pension trustee be absolutely to deliver for their saver and the accord today be deliver exactly that , make sure that we have diversity of asset allocation in our pension scheme . so the answer to the hon . member ' s question be yes . the shadow Chancellor speak about public sector worker benefit from this kind of investment . before I come to the House , I be the chair of the Cornwall local government pension scheme , which very successfully invest 7 . 5 % in local and social impact investment — in local renewable and local affordable housing . will the Minister ensure that more of that happen in the future ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . we should focus on the accord today , but the LGPS be a very important part of our pension landscape ; there be £ 400 billion - worth of asset under management , rise to £ 1 trillion - worth over the next two decade . it be right that we build on the LGPS track record of local investment to make sure that we get the absolute good value for that investment both for taxpayer in local area and for local community . that be exactly what our reform will do — we will be come forward with the final detail in the pension investment review final report in the come week — to make sure that we have big , professional , well - govern and locally invest pension pool . I thank the Minister for his positive answer to the question that have be pose from all part of the Chamber today . while it be encouraging to see 17 workplace pension provider invest 10 % in private asset , it be disappointing that Scottish Widows , for example , be refuse to sign up . what far can be do to ensure that investment will be focus not simply on London firm , as other have refer to , but throughout the United Kingdom , include the tremendous potential in Northern Ireland ? some 90 % of the industry , by active saver number , have sign up to the accord today , and the small number of large provider who have not sign up be supportive of the move towards great private investment . there be a very broad consensus across the industry that this be the right way to go . unrelated to that , but much more importantly , the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that we need to see that investment right across the country , include in Northern Ireland and in his own constituency . I welcome the accord and the Minister ' s word . People in Dartford be await further news of a funding package for the low Thames crossing , which the Government consent recently and be incredibly welcome to resident there . do the Minister agree that this be just the sort of shovel - ready infrastructure project which pension fund could invest in both for the benefit of their saver and to drive economic growth for constituent include my resident ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the low Thames crossing have be consent , and it be another example of this Government get on with get the country build again , and when we come to the spending review — [ interruption . ] if I be in the conservative party , I would not be talk about the low Thames crossing ; I really would not be . the regime for plan that the Conservatives put in place mean that hundred of million of pound have be take to build precisely diddly squat . this government have give consent , and we will be set out in the come month the provision for that scheme to go ahead . I congratulate my hon . friend and Treasury colleague on help to deliver such an important agreement . the accord will unlock up to £ 25 billion of additional capital . it be a huge vote of confidence in the Government ' s demand - side reform agenda to get Britain building and in our economic strategy , provide stability . what step will the Government take to help make sure that investment be ramp up as quickly as possible , and to ensure that regulator help encourage investment of pension fund directly in real economic asset , for instance by look at change to the match adjustment ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment . it be nice to hear the positivity come from he and other member in this House who believe that Britain can do well than the last 15 absolutely terrible year . the investment we will be make , deliver on the supply of capital with the like of the reform today , while allow building for housing , transport project and the rest , be exactly what will make the difference in the long term . innovation be one of Britain ' s great strength , with fast - grow firm drive over £ 1 trillion into the UK economy and support 3 . 2 million job . however , many of those firm , many of which be base in my constituency , still face stubborn barrier to scale up , particularly around access long - term finance . how will the Mansion House accord help channel great investment from pension fund into those scale - up to help they grow ? innovation be one of the way in which we drive high productivity , which be the only lasting way , alongside high level of investment , that we will see high wage for all of our constituent , which be what everyone on both side of this House want . my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that there be a long - last barrier to scale up for our innovative company right across sector . that point be raise early by the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) . specifically , we need our pension fund to invest in a wide range of private asset , and that will include through venture capital , which be how we make sure that we provide that growth financing that we all need to see . that be for the private sector to do , as have be mention , but it be our job to support that , and that be what the British Business Bank , draw on some of the work put in place by the previous Government but now be scale up , be seek to do . point of Order 1 . 38 pm on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 20 March the Foreign Secretary say in relation to the conflict in Gaza : " there be atrocity on both side " . — [ Official Report , 20 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 529 . ] on 24 March , I write to the Attorney General ask how and when his Majesty ' s Government arrive at that determination . I far ask the Attorney General about the legal implication of the UK sell weapon to Israel directly or indirectly , and whether he believe it legal to supply those weapon when the Government have decree that Israel be guilty of atrocity crime . on 8 April I receive a letter from the Attorney General ' s Office say that he do not consider this to be his responsibility and that my letter have be pass to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . it be now 13 May , seven week after I first write to the Attorney General , and I still have have no reply . this be not new , Madam Deputy Speaker . the record will show that I have to raise a similar point of order in November , when neither the fcdo nor the Attorney General ' s Office respond to my letter about the Foreign Secretary ' s interpretation of the genocide convention . can you advise I on how I can get a reply to my question , and how we as Back Benchers can have confidence that the Government will answer Members ' question , even those that they wish have not be ask ? due to the hon . member ' s experience , I think he will know that the matter be not down to the Chair . he will appreciate that Mr Speaker respect timely response to correspondence and request for answer to question from Back Benchers . there be no doubt that not only have the hon . member put his point on the record , but those on the Treasury Front Bench will relay that swiftly to the appropriate Department . A34 Slip Road Safety ( East Ilsley and Beedon ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide for a review of the safety of the A34 slip road at East Ilsley and Beedon ; and to require the publication of plan to address any deficiency in safety identify by that review . my constituency be home to some beautiful rural village , and East Ilsley and Beedon , nestle in the North Wessex down , be prime example . both village be name in the Domesday Book of 1086 , and for century they have be home to west Berkshire family . both have beautiful grade I list church , rich agricultural tradition and a vibrant community . many resident of these idyllic village use the A34 every day to get to work , take their child to school and travel to reading , Oxford , Swindon and beyond . however , to get on to the A34 , they first have to make a perilous journey down what must be some of England ' s most dangerous slip road . the slip road , especially southbound at East Ilsley and northbound at Beedon , be intimidate and dangerous even for experienced driver . National Highways data show that in the five year up to 2023 , tragically there be multiple fatality and many serious accident at these slip road , and my constituent tell I of many more near miss . in fact , 91 % of the nearly 500 people who fill out my survey on the slip road have personally experience issue on they , and 96 % agree that they be dangerous . in the word of my constituent Jenny , the " lack of visibility be treacherous and the slip road be way too short . " my constituent Coreen tell I that use the slip road feel like " dice with death " , especially in the winter month when it be dark and rain . Jo and Steve tell I that they often have to brake to a stop on the slip road , as there be no space in the near side lane to enter the flow of traffic . even as an experienced driver , Paul find the slip road to be the most stressful part of any journey . Helena feel concerned for her child ' s safety , as they use the slip road to commute to work . nicola ' s son sadly experience a four - car pile - up due to the lack of visibility . my constituent should not feel afraid when commute to work or every time that their child drive into town , and resident feel that the situation be only worsen . my constituent Arabella tell I that the road be get more dangerous as the traffic on the A34 increase . that volume of traffic , include hgv , be reroute through the narrow rural lane of small village when accident lead to road closure . instead of " dice with death " , in the word of my constituent , many resident be choose to avoid the slip road at East Ilsley and Beedon and instead join the A34 at Chieveley or West Ilsley , add significant amount of time to their journey and increase traffic on our rural lane . other be think about leave the village altogether . my constituent Nick be one of those people ; he be too concerned about the risk to his young family . the human impact of these slip road be my primary concern , but there be also a knock - on effect on economic growth . the A34 be an economically significant road , connect the major port of the south - east with industrial heartland in the midland . every time there be an accident , the knock - on disruption not only prevent people from get to work on time , but impact the business rely on those delivery . the situation be clearly unsustainable , and something must be do . after raise the issue in Parliament in February with the Roads Minister , who I be delighted to see in her place today , and meet the National Highways regional director to discuss my survey finding , I take the National Highways route manager on a site visit to East Ilsley and Beedon to experience the issue at first hand . we spend the morning have to accelerate along the slip road , grapple with short bend and blind spot and dodge hgv . it be patently obvious to everyone in the car that my constituent be right to be alarm . I be proud that this Labour Government be commit to improve the safety of England ' s road . we be deliver the first road safety strategy in over a decade and have provide £ 4 . 8 billion of funding for National Highways for the next year . I welcome the fact that National Highways will invest in safety measure in the short term . I know that this Government ' s commitment to road safety can deliver tangible change for the people of west Berkshire ' s village , and the slip road at East Ilsley and Beedon urgently need significant safety improvement . that be why I be delighted to present this Bill to urge the Government to provide for a comprehensive review of the safety of these dangerous slip road and ensure that the necessary improvement be make as soon as possible . National Highways have already recommend a review , know as the " A34 Improvements North and South of Oxford " study . I want to see this deliver quickly , alongside any necessary improvement . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport have make it clear that her Department be focus on improve safety for road user , and I look forward to work with she to make that a reality for my constituent . before I finish , I must note that I be not the only person who have take on this issue . I pay tribute to all those who have make the case for change . they include , but be not limit to , local resident ; the A34 Action Group ; my neighbouring mp and the sponsor of this Bill , the hon . member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) and for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) ; and our predecessor , include Laura Farris and Lord Benyon . this have be a truly cross - party endeavour , and I be grateful for the support of colleague from across the political spectrum . we all want the same thing — a safe A34 — and by take on this campaign , I be build on their excellent work . when my constituent Barbora ' s car break down in Southampton , she call the AA . once she tell they that she be from East Ilsley , they immediately know and say , " that ' s the village with the dangerous slip road , isn ' t it ? " I want East Ilsley and Beedon to be know for their tight - knit community , beautiful scenery and unique heritage , not for how dangerous their slip road be . by secure a comprehensive review and deliver the right safety measure , we can make these slip road safe for local people and make a big difference for our community . question put and agree to . order , that Mr Lee Dillon , Olly Glover and Olivia Bailey present the Bill . Olivia Bailey accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June , and to be print ( Bill 236 ) . opposition Day [ 7th Allotted Day ] UK - EU Summit I inform the House that Mr Speaker have select amendment ( a ) in the name of the Prime Minister . I beg to move , that this House recognise that the Conservative Party stand by the result of the 2016 referendum to leave the European Union ( EU ) ; call on the Government to stand by that decision at the summit with the EU on 19 May 2025 , to put the national interest first and not to row back on Brexit , for example by re - introduce free movement through a EU youth mobility scheme , accept compulsory asylum transfer , create dynamic alignment between the UK and the EU , by submit the UK to further oversight from the European Court of Justice or by join the EU ' s carbon tax scheme which will lead to high energy bill ; further call on the Government to stand by the will of the british people by ensure that no new money be pay to the EU , that there be no reduction in UK fishing right , that NATO remain the foundation of european security and that the UK can continue to undertake strategic and defence agreement with non - EU partner ; and also call on the Government to put the negotiate outcome to a vote in the House of Commons . it give I enormous pleasure to open this debate on one of the subject that have be central to this House since I be first elect in 2017 . it be a debate that be necessary this week , because we know that next week , the EU and this Government be go to meet in London to discuss the next step in our arrangement . before that agreement be reach , it be important that this House receive some clarity on what this government be fight for , what they stand for and what their red line be , because even at this late stage , this House be unaware of the Government ' s intention . I do not know whether you remember , Madam Deputy Speaker , but there be a very good tv programme in the 1980 call " Quantum Leap " . in it , an american scientist , Dr Samuel Butler — [ hon . member : " Beckett ! " ] I stand correct , and I apologise to the House . Dr Beckett step into the quantum leap accelerator and vanish , and awake to find himself in strange new form that be not his own . every time the Prime Minister speak , I think , " which body have he leapt into now ? " be it the Prime Minister who spend his early life chastise all immigration law on the ground that it be racist , or the Prime Minister who have a new - find love of strict immigration rule ? be it the Prime Minister who promise to protect winter fuel payment , or the one who immediately cast they away ? be it the Prime Minister who promise to protect farmer , but immediately do the opposite ; the Prime Minister who say he know what a woman be , but then change his mind ; or the Prime Minister who say he would not put taxis on work people , but then promptly do ? the Prime Minister do not know what he stand for or which way he look , and that be a very difficult thing in negotiation . our position be simple : there can be no go back . the conservative party fight long and hard to take control of our law , our border and our money , and with those power , we succeed in secure 70 new trade deal and the fast vaccine roll - out in Europe . the naysayer , gloomster and dismal voice on the Opposition Benches say that it would come to nothing , but in 2015 , UK trade — [ interruption . ] I look forward to correct the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , who chunter from a sedentary position . will the hon . member give way ? no . in 2015 , UK international trade stand at just over £ 1 trillion a year , but by 2023 , it stand at £ 1 . 6 trillion a year — all in spite of Brexit . our concern be that this Government have prove themselves to be really terrible negotiator . we have previously hear the Administration talk about the need for ruthless pragmatism ; one can only wonder whether that be the same ruthless pragmatism that give we the Chagos deal . when I be a history teacher , we use to say that the bad deal in history be the one that the Lenape people of north - east America do with the dutch settler . as the House will recall , they give away Manhattan island for 60 guilde and a handful of bead , but at least they get 60 guilde and a handful of bead — they do not spend £ 18 billion of their own money on give away their territory , as this Government have . I wonder whether it be the same ruthless pragmatism that immediately give out £ 9 . 4 billion in above - inflation pay rise to the unionised sector in return for nothing at all — no agreement on productivity or reform . be it the same ruthless pragmatism that give we the collapse of the £ 450 million AstraZeneca deal , the botched steel mess that we all have to return during recess for , or the miss opportunity of the US tariff arrangement the other day ? our concern , of course , be that this will happen again . I wish I could say that I be enjoy the hon . Gentleman ' s speech , but that would be stretch it a bit too far . I do not know why he be present all these faux disagreement ; do he not appreciate that the Government be as hard Brexiteers as he be ? how much damage do this Brexit have to do before both party decide that it be far too much , and start to look at it seriously ? I always have respect and time for the hon . Gentleman ' s wisdom , but I feel I must correct he . the Government be not hard Brexiteers — they be just Brexiteers today . tomorrow , who know ? what we know be that they be against leave the EU , and then they change their mind . those people who change their mind on such fundamental issue may well change they back — they may well turn on a sixpence and do it again . the fact of the matter be that the Government have enter these negotiation with no clear objective , and with red line so thin and wash - out that they can be quickly discard . however , today be an opportunity for the Labour party to come clean about what it want and what it be do , because Labour Members will have to vote on our motion , which set out our red line . those red line be very clear and precise , and in keep with the will of the british people . the hon . member talk about the official Opposition ' s motion be precise , but that be factually incorrect , in that the motion conflate freedom of movement with youth mobility . if youth mobility be good enough for Australia , Canada and Uruguay , it do not run against the red line regard freedom of movement . do the hon . Member not understand that ? it be freedom of movement for young people , be it not ? what we be ask for today be for the Labour party to set out what its clear position be . in a moment , I will explain why that be very important . the fact be that up until this point , we have see chaos in these negotiation . that will be easy for the Labour party to understand , because on 24 February , we hear the Home Secretary rule out a youth mobility deal — the Government be not go to do it and be not look into it . at the beginning of March , though , the Postmaster General suggest in a Westminster Hall debate that he be open to such a deal , but then on 24 April , the Postmaster General rule it out again . [ interruption . ] I mean the Paymaster General — would the right hon . member for Torfaen ( Nick Thomas - Symonds ) like to be Postmaster General ? okay , Paymaster General it be . he rule it out on 24 April , but then at the beginning of May , he once again rule it in . this do not end with the youth mobility scheme . on 23 January , Labour Ministers rule out join the Pan - Euro - Mediterranean area . three day later , the Chancellor say that the Government be look at it , and then on 3 February , the Government rule it out again . the Government do not know what they be do ; they do not know what they want to achieve , have no objective , and have very blur red line . there be an emerge sense that this will be a good deal — a good deal for the EU , in which the balance of benefit will run against the UK . despite the fact that the Government do not wish to give a run commentary — they be content to give a running commentary to the press — it seem that the EU ' s demand be be meet in this negotiation , but because the UK have no demand , its demand can not be meet . the hon . Gentleman have refer to " Quantum Leap " . the point about Sam Beckett be that he keep leap back into the past , because he could not cope with the future — that do seem rather apposite . I hope the hon . Gentleman agree with many Labour Members that one of the important thing about next Monday be that we will be able to move forward on the security and defence partnership . give the threat pose by President Putin , can the hon . Gentleman put aside his blindness to the benefit to this country of co - operate with Europe and at least agree that that partnership would be a good thing to secure ? I be glad to be the one to break it to the hon . Lady that we already co - operate with Europe on defence , and have do so for a very long time . she will know that the cornerstone of our defence be — and always have be , since the second world war — NATO . now be an apt moment to remember that , because today be the 85th anniversary of the first speech that Sir Winston Churchill make as Prime Minister , give from that Dispatch Box , or , rather , from the Dispatch Box that be there before the Chamber be bomb . it be his " blood , toil , tear and sweat " speech . it be obviously incredibly important that we co - operate with our european partner on defence , but that be why we do . we spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence — and the opposition would like to spend 3 % , and more — largely to help defend Europe , and we know of no reason , because the Government have not give one , why NATO be insufficient for that task . british firm be call for co - operation with our european ally so that there be investment in increase defence spending across Europe , include in my constituency . what would the shadow Minister say to they ? the Government be call for a security deal . do he not agree that we need one with the EU ? I would say that if the term of the deal be that the UK must pay to have access to that fund , we must ask very serious question of our european ally about why we should have to contribute when we be already committed to their security . if the Government choose to go down that route , it be for the Government to explain why that should be the case . the truth be that NATO must continue to be the cornerstone of our defence , but over the weekend there be report in the Sunday Times that the EU might be insert into our chain of command , which would be a very significant change . absolute nonsense . from a sedentary position , the Paymaster General say that that be absolute nonsense . I be pleased to hear it , but the right hon . Gentleman have not yet have an opportunity to tell the House that . it be clear that someone in the Government , or within the EU , be brief journalist over the weekend that this might be true . [ interruption . ] I think the right hon . Gentleman need to take responsibility for his special adviser . if there be to be a defence pact , it be for the Government to explain why it would make we safe . one thing puzzle I slightly about the position take by the Government , which be a bit like that on the Chagos island : we already own they , but we enter a negotiation to give they away and rent they back . in this instance , Europe threaten we that we can not talk about other matter until we sign up to this defence deal , but we already have a defence deal and we already co - operate : we have build weapon with France , Sweden and various other country . rather than what they would lose , what be it that we gain ? my right hon . friend have a great deal of experience of these matter , and he have make a series of very important point , but it be for the Government to explain why this would be in the interest of the UK . the summit be take place next week , and so far the Government have not do so . give that the last Government reduce our Army to a size not see since the napoleonic era , we should take no lecture on defence from Opposition Members . the people who will benefit from this be the defence contractor in my constituency who have be struggle to sell their component to the EU since Brexit and have have to cancel contract , which have be affect job all over the west midland . when I first arrive in the House , the leader of the hon . Gentleman ' s party be advocate leave NATO and give up Trident , so I will take no lecture from those on his side of the House . my party be commit to 3 % defence spending , and I think that those defence contractor in his constituency would very much like to see a Conservative Government spend some of that money in his patch . would my hon . friend care to disabuse Labour Members who seem to be under the impression that whatever amount we put in , somehow our defence contractor in the UK will get more out of the fund than we be contribute ? the history of defence procurement in Europe be that France and Germany invariably make sure that they get more out of it than they put in , and we be always the loser . I do not think we will suddenly become winner when we be not a member of the EU . my hon . friend ' s experience in these matter speak volume . the truth be that we must be absolutely certain that this will not be just another scheme for funnel money into french defence company while keep it away from defence company in other jurisdiction . do my hon . friend share my hope that in next week ' s negotiation the Government will make it abundantly clear to our european partner that for decade this country ' s contribution to our collective defence have be well above the level that our economy , our population or our size would dictate , and that Europe have benefit from that ? while I be in no way recommend a trumpian approach to these matter , it be nevertheless important for the Government to make clear to our interlocutor the scale of our contribution to collective defence . I fully agree with my hon . friend . the fact be that the UK have make a disproportionate , but necessary , contribution to european defence for many decade . I think that we be right to do so , and I would support our do so into the future , but it be only right for our friend to recognise that contribution and to treat we not as an external power come to parlay , but rather as a close and long - term friend whose loyalty have already be prove many time over . it would also be good today to have clarification from the Government of their position on EU lawmaking . I be lucky enough to have a call with my friend Sir William Cash this morning . it be an unusually brief call , last only 20 minute . [ laughter . ] Sir Bill put it very clearly to I : he say that in any new arrangement with the EU it be important for we to see no EU lawmaking , no jurisdiction for the European Court of Justice and no attempt to reapply the principle of EU law in our court , because one principle of our departure from the EU be that we would take back control of our money , our border and our law . the hon . member be right to say that there must be no further surrender to EU law , but , in the same vein , be there not a need to recover the territorial integrity of the United Kingdom ? I represent a part of the United Kingdom where in 300 area of law it be not this House but a foreign Parliament that make the law . should the starting point of a reset not be recover the integrity of this Parliament in the territory of this United Kingdom ? the hon . Gentleman have make a very good point . it be one that he have make often in the House , and I look forward to his make it to the Minister in a few moment ' time . on the subject of fish , we be clear about the fact that there should be no multi - year deal , because that would reduce the UK ' s leverage in future negotiation with the EU . we should have 12 nautical mile of exclusive access . that be what our fisherman want , and it be what the Conservative party support . there should also be fair distribution of quota scheme , and no trade barrier during dispute . my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , the shadow Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , have make the position very clear . this be an opportunity to defend the UK ' s fisherman , and to build on the deal that we have previously from the Brexit negotiation . we should not be give up the freedom of our fisherman . it be important to remember the history here . there be no common fishery policy until the prospect of Britain ' s join the common market arise , and then those country create one simply so that they could rip we off . Ain ' t that the truth ! here be an opportunity for the Government to give guarantee and security to our fisherman . the hon . Member be talk about fishing right . under his government , the UK catch suddenly drop by 80 % . will he now apologise for the damage that he and his party do to the UK fishing industry ? we be the party that take fisherman out of the common fishery policy , which be something that fishing community want . we very much hope that this Government will not concede the right that be hard win in those negotiation . I wonder whether the shadow Minister have quantum leapt into a body in which Brexit have be a huge success . could he say either way ? if the hon . Gentleman have hear my opening remark , he would have hear that in 2015 , the volume of UK trade be just over £ 1 trillion . by 2023 , despite Brexit , that have go up to £ 1 . 6 trillion . sometimes the people who be on the other side of the argument , many of whom have understandable concern — we be make a big constitutional change that have not be make in over 40 year — seem trap in the past , like Dr Samuel Beckett , and unable to realise that there have be significant improvement in the UK ' s trading position because of the freedom that we acquire , and because of the 70 trade deal that the previous Government bring in . if the hon . Gentleman wish to change his altered reality , there will be an audience for it in this House . on the emission trading scheme , we know that carbon price be high in the EU than they be in the UK . there be great concern among certain industry that if , as have be trail in the press , the Government be plan to sign we up to the EU ' s emission trading system , there will be a heavy price to pay , particularly in the ceramics industry . two week ago , we see a ceramics factory in Stoke - on - Trent close , cite high energy price under this Labour Government . sadly , high energy price be a result of the policy of the hon . Gentleman ' s Government , who have four industrial strategy , all of which promise significant help for the ceramics sector and it never materialise . one of the big problem for the ceramics sector be ensure that the European Union ' s food contact regulation , which it have to comply with to sell its ware , match the british system . if he be in power today , what would he do to ensure that our trading arrangement allow for free trade of the good that my city make and sell into Europe ? well , it will be irrelevant if all the business shut down because of high energy price . the hon . Gentleman can talk about the previous Administration , but it be his party that promise to cut energy bill by £ 300 . instead , they continue to go up , and the market expectation be that energy price will continue to rise under this Government . that would be very bad for ceramic factory , such as the one in his constituency . there be a range of other thing that we could go into . if there be go to be negotiation with the EU , there be plenty of thing that might be raise , but we do not know whether the Government have raise they . they include the arrangement with France on illegal migration , mutual recognition of food standard , conformity certification , touring musician , rule of origin and so on . the point be that the Government have not tell we whether they want these thing , whether they be pursue they and whether it be negotiate they on our behalf . we on this side of the House be clear : follow the referendum , this country turn a page , and it be very important that the Labour party do not turn it back . the fact be that we be on the brink of witness yet another disastrous labour deal . we know that when labour negotiate , Britain lose . to leave the House in no doubt , if and when my party be back in power , we will reverse any handover of power , any imposition of EU law , any new right for the ECJ and any new budgetary commitment . it be my party that take the country out of the EU , and it be my party that will keep it out . I commend this motion to the House . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " House " to end and insert : " note the overwhelming mandate on which the Government be elect , which include reset the United Kingdom ' s relationship with the European Union to deepen tie with its european friend , neighbour and ally ; welcome the Government ' s commitment only to agree a deal that be in the UK ' s national interest and be in line with the manifesto on which the Government be elect ; support the Government ' s commitment to agree a new and ambitious security agreement between the UK and the EU to help tackle common threat , whilst note that NATO be the cornerstone of the UK ' s defence ; recognise the Government ' s ambition to negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary and veterinary agreement to address the cost of food and to tackle a range of other issue to reduce barrier to trade ; and far support improvement to the UK - EU relationship that be aim at make the UK safe , more secure and more prosperous , in line with the Prime Minister ' s Plan for Change . " first of all , I should say what a pleasure it always be to debate with the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , who be across the Dispatch Box from I . discussion with the EU be ongoing , and I be sure that member from across the House will understand that I can not , this afternoon , pre - empt what will be unveil at next week ' s summit . we will not provide a running commentary on negotiation , nor would this House expect we to . however , after the summit have conclude , we will take the early possible opportunity to update Parliament on what have be deliver , and on the impact that any measure will have . I will focus my remark on how this government be improve the life of work people and make the people of the UK safe , more secure and more prosperous , and I be grateful to the Opposition for give we the opportunity to talk about that . we have hear from the opposition today , and from the Leader of the Opposition in recent day , that the only thing that have be surrender be the credibility of the conservative party as a party of opposition , let alone a party of government . the only quantum leap make be by the Conservative party , which have go from government to irrelevance . 2025 start so well , didn ' t it ? the Leader of the opposition be turn over a new leaf and take responsibility for her mistake . she say of the previous Government : " we be make announcement without proper plan . we announce that we would leave the European Union before we have a plan for growth outside the EU . " however , with negotiation ongoing , today the Conservatives be rehash the argument of the past . there be no analysis of where the United Kingdom ' s interest lie in the mid - 2020s . the Conservatives simply do not believe in Britain ' s ability to win . perhaps that be no surprise , give the 14 year of failure that they deliver for our country . this Government be elect in July 2024 on a mandate to deliver change for work people , and we be deliver on the promise of our manifesto . if the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar do not know about the objective of the negotiation , I suggest that he read the manifesto — a manifesto that deliver 411 Labour Members of Parliament , as the public overwhelmingly reject the conservative party . may I point out that the conservative motion say that the Conservatives stand by the result of the 2016 referendum , but the Labour amendment do not say the same of the Labour party ? be the right hon . Gentleman say that a one - term mandate in one election trump a referendum result , or do he respect the referendum result of 2016 ? I absolutely respect the referendum result . if the hon . Gentleman bother to read our manifesto , he would discover that there be red line : we will not go back to the single market , the custom union , or freedom of movement . let I say to the conservative party that deliver on our manifesto promise will unlock huge benefit for the United Kingdom , reduce barrier to trade and accelerate economic growth . in an uncertain world , it will keep we safe , more secure and more prosperous . that be what this Government be work towards . the Minister have refer to the labour manifesto several time in a few minute . do it say anything at all about accept dynamic alignment or become a rule taker — yes or no ? the objective of negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary veterinary agreement , so that agricultural product , food and drink can be trade more cheaply between the UK and the EU , be in the labour manifesto , and we have a mandate for that . the Government will put more money in the pocket of work people and create great long - term stability and security for the british people . apparently , the opposition be against that , and so , I hear , be Reform . to be fair , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) say that he think the current deal with the EU can be improve , but he have never tell we exactly how , and we wait to find out . since last July , this Government have be get on with the job of reset our relationship with the European Union in a number of important area . right now , the young people of this country be confine to this island , and can not live , work or move freely across the continent . there be discussion about a youth mobility scheme . will the Minister commit himself to secure a mobility scheme for the young people of this country ? I would not describe the hon . gentleman as be confine to any island . I have already speak about smart , control youth mobility scheme ; the previous Government agree a number of they . this government be exercise diplomacy in our national interest . we need only take one look at the trade deal that we have sign with the United States — [ hon . member : " terrible ! " ] — and India in the last fortnight to see that we be deliver for the british people . conservative Front Benchers shout from a sedentaryposition about the US deal , but they can tell that to the worker at Jaguar Land Rover whose job have be save by the deal . I can tell the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) that I be in Scotland yesterday to talk to the Scotch Whisky Association about the enormous benefit for Scotland of the India deal . he should welcome that deal , not criticise the Government . Britain be back on the world stage , no thank to the carping from the opposition will the Minister give way ? on the point about carp from the opposition , I will . the Minister mention that he be in Scotland yesterday , which be wonderful . as a Scottish MP , I be in Scotland every week , and I quite often meet people from distillery , who have recently say that they be suffer because of the family farm tax that the Government have bring in . their farmer be downsize and not invest , which be reduce their supply of grain . be the Minister and the Government proud of that legacy , and that contribution to the Scotch Whisky Association ? I be very proud of the extra £ 25 billion that we have put into the national health service . apparently , the ludicrous position of the opposition be that they be in favour of the investment , but they will not tell we exactly how they would raise the money . I put it to the opposition : be there any country they actually want a british business to trade with ? in government , the Conservatives promise a trade deal with India by Diwali — to be fair , they do not say which Diwali — but they deliver absolutely nothing for the british people . we secure an India trade deal , and they complain about it . we secure an economic deal with the United States — long promise by the last government , but never deliver — and they do not like that . I like to be constructive , so can I make a suggestion to the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) ? maybe he should change his title to shadow Secretary of State for no business and no trade , because when it come to the trade deal that we have negotiate , that be the Opposition ' s position . he have run a business , unlike you . I be self - employ , actually . I would be careful about make remark without know the fact . while the opposition continue to turn inward on themselves , this Government will focus on delivery . our priority be translate that strengthen relationship with the European Union into a long - term UK - EU strategic partnership that improve the life of work people and put more money in their pocket . the Minister will have hear what the shadow Minister say about the Conservatives ' pride in Brexit . it seem to I that they be proud of the terrible Brexit deal that they deliver and completely unable to bring forward any constructive idea . they have manage to set out five red line , but do the Minister agree that the opposition have nothing to be proud of when it come to the botched Brexit deal that they bring forward , nothing to be proud of in make Britons poorer , and nothing to be proud of in make trade hard ? will he share with we some of the framework that he will be discuss ? conservative member sit there defend the status quo , but if they bother to speak to any business trade internationally , they would know that the status quo be not work for Britain . the Minister have speak about UK deal with India and the United States , and next Tuesday there will be a UK deal , or a reset , with the European Union . where be Northern Ireland ' s place in that ? when the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) and I have ask where the benefit be for Northern Ireland from the UK - India and UK - US trade deal , we have have no answer from the Government . I have visit Belfast as a Minister more than once , and I have listen very carefully to business in Northern Ireland about their priority . Northern Ireland have dual - market access , and I be absolutely supportive of Northern Ireland take the great possible economic advantage of that . on the Windsor framework and the check at the border on the Irish sea , if we be able to secure a sanitary and phytosanitary deal , that will obviously reduce the necessity for check at that border , which I hope the hon . Gentleman would be able to support . on safety , the trade and co - operation agreement agree by the Conservatives leave a gap in our ability to tackle crime and criminality , and stop opportunity to work with european country on close the loophole allow illegal migration . we have to improve on that . on security , which be raise by the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar , we be respond to a once - in - a - generation moment for the collective security of our continent through an ambitious UK - EU security and defence relationship . in the shadow of the 80th anniversary of VE Day , which give we all powerful historical reminder in our constituency up and down the country , secure our collective future be paramount . I remind the House that NATO be the creation of that great post - war Labour Government of Clement Attlee and Ernest Bevin . it have be the bedrock of our security over three quarter of a century after the treaty be sign , and that will not change . in fact , a new defence and security pact strengthen european security and strengthen NATO , and to suggest otherwise be irresponsible . the United Kingdom be rapidly increase defence spending , and it be play a leadership role on Ukraine . the only person who would benefit from talk of division across Europe be Vladimir Putin . on growth , the Government ' s central mission be to slash red tape at the border , make it easy for UK business to trade with the EU and to cut cost for business and consumer . I be so pleased that the Minister be try to negotiate a new SPS deal and work to remove the red tape . would he agree with I that business in my constituency , such as Tri - Wall in Monmouthshire , be absolutely desperate to remove that red tape , so they can increase export again , as they do before the botched Brexit deal ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and business up and down the country will benefit from a reduction in trade barrier . the Minister be make a good case . would he agree with I that close UK - EU defence tie do not diminish our role in NATO , but complement it , especially at a time when transatlantic security simply can not be take for grant ? would he also agree that secure access to programme such as the Security Action for Europe fund would be a win for british manufacturer and for our strategic capability ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that that be in the UK ' s interest , and this would be the bad possible moment to start fragment defence across Europe . let I just say that on the three pillar of this negotiation — safety , security and growth — this Government will deliver for our country ' s future , reduce the cost of live and create job . the Opposition motion be stick in the past . everybody else have move on and , frankly , it be time for they to move on , too . the Minister raise the important issue of the cost of living . give the dire economic impact of Brexit , include food inflation be eight time high than it would otherwise have be , and the cost of leave the European Union amount to £ 1 million an hour in 2022 , accord to datum from the Office for National Statistics , do he agree with I that it make total economic sense for the UK and the people in it to use next week ' s summit to start discussion with the EU on what the process of rejoin might be , and the timing for that ? [ Official Report , 14 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 6wc . ] ( correction ) we respect the result of the 2016 referendum . what the hon . Lady be say on the cost of food be precisely what an SPS agreement on agricultural product , food and drink would seek to deal with — I would hope to see her party support that . the conservative now seem to be the defender of the current status quo . if they bother to speak to trader these day , they would know that that status quo be not work in the interest of UK business , big or small . one Member say that the exist trade deal be " not a very good one " . that be actually the hon . member for Clacton ; it be not often that I agree with he , but there we be . as a result of the previous Government ' s failure , company have be endure significant delay at our border , and have to fill out hundred of piece of paper just to be able to import or export to our near neighbour . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way ; he be make an excellent speech . like I , I be sure he be concerned about small business that could particularly benefit from an agrifood deal . would he like to say a little bit more about the benefit for our small business ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there will be a particular benefit to small and medium - sized business , which simply have not have the capacity to deal with the additional red tape we have see in recent year . rise — rise — rise — I will give way once more : to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) . I be immensely grateful to the right hon . gentleman for give way . the last time we exchange comment in the Chamber , I think they be about Asquith , but I can not match that today . the right hon . Gentleman be make some sensible point about trust trader and ease barrier at the border , but he will know , when he speak of safety and security , that our key security relationship be the five Eyes relationship : with America , Canada , Australia and New Zealand . of course we co - operate with Europe , but any change to our relationship around security with Europe would endanger the security of this country , if we compromise that core relationship . in particular , give that those Euro - enthusiast on the continent have always want a pan - european army and a pan - european security policy , will he talk a bit about defence and defence procurement ? first of all , there be absolutely no compromise on the core principle of our defence , which we have have since NATO be found in 1949 . far from any weakening , we be produce the opposite . this would be the bad possible moment to fragment european defence . that be not what this Government be do . I dismiss any suggestion of a european army in the way that I think the right hon . Gentleman mean it . this be a crucial moment for our continent . it be about leadership and peace on our continent , and strengthen and complement NATO — absolutely not weaken it in any sense . I hope he will take that reassurance . I have to go back to the point about business , because business themselves be speak out . business such as Marks and Spencer have be up front about how real the challenge be . its head of food say recently : " paperwork take hour to complete and demand detail as niche as the Latin name for the chicken use in our chicken tikka masala . " it be not just M & S . all supermarket have say the same , as recently report in the Financial Times . just yesterday , I be in Edinburgh hear from business about the difficulty they face — difficulty that we could resolve with some ruthless pragmatism and a well deal . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make some progress . meanwhile , a few week ago more than 50 energy company and organisation highlight the need for close energy co - operation with the EU to drive down cost and drive up investment . all those be voice that a conservative party of the past might have listen to , but not , it seem , this lot on the Opposition Front Bench . there be an opportunity in front of we that the opposition do not even want to try to understand . it will make a difference to grow our economy , boost our living standard and eradicate the barrier that limit trade with our single big trading partner today . the consequence of the Conservatives ' position today be that they be defend a status quo that be fail business and fail work people . their view — let we be clear about this — be that the trade barrier hold business back should stay in place . that impact on the cost of live and on the number of job . do the Minister agree that at the heart of this debate be that this Government be take proactive engagement with our near and large trading and security partner , which be a quantum leap from the fail position of sneer resentment from the conservative party ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the situation now be a quantum leap of improvement after what we see from the Conservative Government . will the SPS and energy deal that the Minister have in mind be on the basis of a mutual recognition of standard , or do he envisage the United Kingdom accept EU standard now , be dynamically align and place ourselves under the jurisdiction of the European Court ? just to be clear , whether on energy , an SPS agreement or employment right , this Government be interested in a race to the top , not a race to the bottom . [ interruption . ] opposition member feign interest in the detail of the deal next Monday . the Leader of the Opposition do not even want to look at it before she go out at the weekend and make her mind up about it . that be not the behaviour of a serious Opposition party , let alone a party of government . but that be where the Conservatives be now : very happy to carp on about what they be against , not care about reduce bill , not care about people ' s pay check , not care about people ' s job , and forever try not to spell out an alternative . they have not listen , and they certainly have not learn . rise — on the issue of learn and listening , I give way to the right hon . member . I just want to check on something . we can debate whether a trade deal can be improve — I be sure that all trade deal can be improve , whether it be the american one or what be an extensive one with Europe , and probably the great one negotiate in the past — but one area , as the Government go back into this discussion , need to be very clear . I be look at a paper produce by the Centre for European Reform , which make one point very clear , as the Government go into the negotiation . it state : " labour ' s red line do not extend to rule out dynamic alignment or a role for the ECJ in dispute settlement . " be that correct ? be that the position of the present Labour Government ? I have to say , have be for some year in this House with the right hon . Gentleman , that I never think I would find he quote the Centre for European Reform in a parliamentary debate , but clearly someone on the Opposition Benches be move on , even if those on the Opposition Front Bench be not . drive by our ruthlessly pragmatic approach , next Monday ' s UK - EU summit will be the first annual summit between the UK and the EU . it will be a day of delivery . we be deliver on our manifesto — not return to the custom union , single market or freedom of movement , or revisit the argument of 2016 . rise — on the subject of revisit the argument of 2016 , I give way to the hon . member . I can understand why the right hon . Member do not want to answer the two question from the Opposition on dynamic alignment , but surely , give a third opportunity , he will commit the Government not to have dynamic alignment in any way , so that we can benefit from trade deal around the world — a great Brexit benefit . in the past few week , we have absolutely be benefit from trade deal around the world . nothing we be do with the European Union be stop that . if the hon . Gentleman want evidence of that , he can see the UK - India trade deal that this Government agree in recent week , or look at the deal with the United States that we agree in recent week . nothing we be do with the European Union cut across that . our position have be that we will not choose between our ally . the UK ' s national interest lie in deepening — [ interruption . ] no , there be nothing dynamic about the conservative party . the UK ' s national interest lie in deepen our trade relationship with all our partner . will the Minister give way ? I have give way a number of time now . trade , security , defence and other area of our relationship should never be treat as a zero - sum game . it be possible to deliver on all front , and that be exactly what this Government be do . I look forward to turn the page next week , as we forge a new strategic partnership with our european friend and make Brexit work in the interest of the british people . we be step up and meet the moment , make people safe and more secure , deliver growth and deliver in our national interest — that be what this Government will do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank those on the Conservative Front Bench for bring this motion , which reveal , if nothing else , the sorry state of their party — not a vision for Britain ' s future , but a stubborn fixation on a fail past . the Tories ' botch Brexit deal have leave we not flourish , but flounder — not prosperous , but poorer . their dreadful Brexit deal have be utterly ruinous for our economy . while they cling to their Brexit dogma , british business , farmer and fisher in every corner of our country face the harsh reality of their record of incompetence . Britain deserve more than hollow promise and endless excuse — Britain deserve well . the Conservatives ’ motion today be a checklist of their own failure . what be once a pro - business party that support open market and free trade now cower behind trade barrier . there be only one liberal party speak up for british business in this House , and that be the Liberal Democrats . business that be promise a bonfire of regulation be now bury in paperwork . the Tories do not deliver the streamlined trade they promise ; instead , they create a bureaucratic nightmare . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give I the opportunity to speak on behalf of one of my constituent , who start a business import organic produce from the EU but have to pay to re - certify the organic produce in the UK at their own cost . that be kill their business . be this the type of red tape , introduce by Brexit , that the Government should remove ? absolutely . my hon . friend ' s point speak to the nature of the deal that be agree when we leave the European Union . far from create the streamlined trade the Conservatives promise , and instead of boost growth , they have strangle it . our farmer be promise golden opportunity , but have end up poorer and weigh down by yet more Tory Brexit bureaucracy . the previous Conservative Government undermine farmer and our rural economy with a botched trade deal with Australia and New Zealand . indeed , the former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs slam it by say " the UK give away far too much for far too little " . — [ Official Report , 14 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c . 424 . ] do my hon . friend agree that this government should not allow our farmer to be throw under the bus again ? my hon . friend be a strong advocate for farmer in her constituency and across the country , and I absolutely agree with she . our fishing community have suffer similarly . I hear from local fisher in Newhaven , in my constituency , who fear their livelihood be close to collapse . elsewhere , we have the example of offshore shellfish in Brixham , represent by my hon . friend the Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) , where a vet be now need to sign 17 separate document by hand for every shipment of mussel . if the deadline be miss at Calais , the entire catch go to waste . that be not take back control — it be lose the plot . the Tories have thoroughly botch our relationship with Europe , but labour ' s overcautious approach risk cement this failure . we acknowledge the Government ' s recognition that this Brexit deal be not work , but their approach fall a long way short . where Britain need bold leadership , they offer nothing more than reluctant half - measure ; where we need decisive action , they offer excuse and red line . the hon . Gentleman raise an interesting point about shellfish . the environmental and hygiene standard we apply to our shellfish remain exactly the same the day we leave the EU as when we be in the EU — it be the EU that supply all that bureaucracy and requirement for wet stamp . under World Trade Organisation rule , if a territory have equivalent standard , it be oblige to allow good to enter its jurisdiction unchecked . why do the EU breach this international law so wantonly , and why have the Government become a supplicant to the EU , try to gain its favour to remove these illegal barrier ? I think the hon . Gentleman would acknowledge that the regulation he reference be not the only barrier to export in this country . I mention Calais ; the port of Dover currently see massive delay in get any good through the port because of the additional bureaucracy and security that be necessary as a result of Brexit . newhaven port in my constituency , which I know very well — in fact , I humbly suggest that I know it well than other hon . member — have have to spend million of pound simply put in place more barrier in order to move good through the port , and that be what be slow thing down . the hon . Gentleman make a fair point about equivalence , but at the end of the day , it be not the only output of Brexit that be harm our industry . with its half - measure , Labour seem so afraid of its reform - shape shadow that it have rule out bold measure to set free british business and stimulate growth . Britain can not afford such timidity ; our business can not afford it , and our young people , who face a future with few opportunity than their parent , absolutely can not afford it . I assume the hon . Gentleman be not advocate return to the common fishery policy , which , with its ludicrous quota and equivalence , be bad for fish , which be discard live , and bad for fisherman , who be limit by quota . it be a disaster that have a detrimental effect on the fishing industry across this country . surely he do not want a return to that . absolutely not . the common fishery policy do a lot of damage to british fishing , as the common agricultural policy do to farming . on that point , it be possibly worth note that the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) attend only one of 42 European Parliament Fisheries Committee meeting that he could have attend , thereby never speak up for british interest , and that be potentially why the common fishery policy be not to our benefit . I thank my hon . friend for that point . what we have advocate for on all these area be a new relationship with Europe , which would involve a new discussion around fishing . unlike the Conservatives , who apparently can not cope with the idea that we can actually move forward in the world and have a different arrangement , we acknowledge that we do not have to go back to what we have before . the Liberal Democrats have a clear four - step road map to rebuild our european relationship . first , we must have a fundamental reset , rebuild trust trash by year of conservative recklessness . I absolutely acknowledge the positive work Ministers have do in that regard . secondly , we must rejoin crucial european agency that directly benefit british people , such as Erasmus + , the European Union Aviation Safety Agency and Horizon Europe , which back in 2023 the Conservatives agree to pay more than £ 2 billion a year to rejoin due to the enormous harm that leave that programme have do to our critical research and innovation sector . to recognise the necessity of such programme , only to demand in the motion that the Government rule out pay for access to other scheme that could benefit the UK , be the very height of hypocrisy . thirdly , we must negotiate practical arrangement to slash red tape , culminate in a UK - EU custom union by 2030 that would give british business the oxygen they so desperately need . finally , as trust rebuild , we must pursue single market membership , unlock maximum prosperity for business and maximum opportunity for future generation . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s comment about the common fishery policy . will he join we on the Conservative Benches and go one far by urge the Government not to give up any of the sovereign fishing right that the UK currently benefit from by give away fishing to France for other see - to - be benefit from a wide deal ? can he be strong and urge the Government on fishing , like those on these Benches ? I can be strong ; I promise the House that I will never join those Benches — I can rule that out definitively . what we should not be do , as the right - wing press have slightly hysterically speculate , be trade away fishing right for a defence deal , for instance . that be something that Liberal Democrats have be very clear about , and that we continue to be clear about . the hon . Member make an excellent case . to his credit , he set out four clear point , which be more than the Government or the main Opposition party have do . member across this House have previously say that a democracy fail to be a democracy if people do not have the ability to change their mind . do he rule out ever rejoin the EU ? it be impossible to rule out anything in the future . if the hon . Member have ask I 20 year ago whether it be possible that we would ever leave the EU , I would have say that it be extremely unlikely . who know what will happen in the future ? we may have a Government of a different complexion one day who choose to take those step , but right now that be clearly not something that we be talk about . the EU must show flexibility , too . Britain be no ordinary third country . we be a major economy and an indispensable partner on defence , security and trade . the EU must make space for bespoke , pragmatic arrangement . alongside that , the Government must immediately introduce a youth mobility scheme . our young people deserve the same european opportunity that previous generation enjoy , include many on these Benches . the Tories obstinately refuse this common - sense approach and Labour have so far flip - flop on the issue . we have exist scheme with Australia , Japan , New Zealand and Canada , but not with our near neighbour . our young people do not deserve this short - sightedness ; they deserve access to opportunity across Europe . as global threat multiply — Putin ' s brutality in Ukraine and Trump ' s economic recklessness — Britain ' s security demand strong european partnership . our comprehensive UK - EU defence pact be not just desirable , but essential for our national security . we be no long part of Europol , mean that we have lose access to crucial intelligence sharing and vital database that help track criminal and terrorist across border . that be not take back control ; that be make british people feel less safe and less secure . to those who claim that a UK - EU defence co - operation pact would somehow weaken NATO , let we be clear : it would do the exact opposite . great mobility for personnel across Europe strengthen NATO ' s ability to deploy force , particularly in the east . access to EU procurement mechanism allow we to purchase more equipment more efficiently and boost british defence firm . strong co - operation on european defence not only bolster the alliance , but improve our share operational effectiveness . the Conservatives be undermine british security and scaremongere by suggest otherwise . with Trump in the White House , the world have be plunge into a trade war . Britain ' s export to the EU reach £ 356 billion last year , which be 42 % of everything that we sell to the world . imagine how much high that would be and how much more money the british people would have in their pocket have the Conservatives ' disastrous deal not shrunk our economy by 4 % . in my constituency of Bicester and Woodstock , many worker at the Cowley Mini plant tell I that they be worried about the future of the plant , and one of the principal reason be that the Conservatives ' botch Brexit deal have introduce so much red tape that the just - in - time delivery of component part across the european network that BMW operate be threaten the plant . do my hon . friend agree that that be just one example of how the Brexit deal damage our economy , rather than support our core industry ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and for stick up for his local business , as he always do . absolutely ; the effect on supply chain in particular have not always be obvious , but it have be detrimental to many , particularly large , complicated business . will the hon . member give way ? not at the moment , no . by contrast , the much - vaunted trade deal sign with India last week be worth just a fraction of our former deal with the European Union . it be around 20 time small than the economic boost that we gain simply by align with the EU on good and service . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? of course . the whole House will have note that the hon . Member clearly fail to rule out a second referendum , because he do not much like the result of the first one . may I ask he this directly ? like the Government , as be obvious from their evasion this afternoon , be the Liberal Democrats prepare to accept a process of dynamic alignment , whereby we effectively become a passive rule - taker from the European Union ? yes or no ? the right hon . Member make two point . first , he mention a second referendum . I find this a fascinating contention . election happen every four year . at the last election , we return a Labour Government . this argument that the result of that referendum in 2016 must be hold in perpetuity — no matter what the british people think of it — suggest to I that everybody should join the Labour party , because now we will have a Labour Government in perpetuity , too . perhaps Conservative Members might want to give some consideration to that . secondly , the right hon . Member use the term " rule - taker " . I find that fascinating , too . it be quite noticeable that in the negotiation on Brexit , Conservative Members become enthral by the philosophy of cakeism to the extent that it become their mantra that we could have our cake and eat it , and that , apparently , modern trade deal do not require any give and take . the recent India trade deal , which have be so trumpet by Labour Members and , which , of course , be start by Conservative Members , do involve the UK have to take some thing as well . that be what a trade deal look like , and it certainly look like that when we be talk with the large trading bloc on the planet . the key question that the right hon . Member should be ask be what benefit would it bring to british people . that , ultimately , be the job of any Government and any politician : what will benefit we ? yes ! I be pleased that the right hon . Member agree with himself . by contrast , my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) tell I of an engineering firm in his constituency that , due to the mountain of Brexit red tape , now find it far easy to trade with South Korea than with Europe . this be not just damaging , but frankly absurd . the one thing that the Government will not do that be guarantee to deliver growth be negotiate a bespoke customs union with the EU , yet they be hike national insurance for business , stifle investment and refuse to support the most vulnerable in our society by not scrap the two - child benefit cap or safeguard personal independence payment . rise — rise — I will , if I may , make a little progress , because I be conscious of the amount of time that I be take up . only a custom union can give business the long - term certainty they need , which will help to shield british job from the loom threat of Trump ' s trade war . I will take an intervention from the hon . Gentleman first and then from my hon . friend . the hon . Gentleman tell we that he have a constituent who find it easy to trade with South Korea than with the EU . what do that tell we about the EU ? be that not one reason why people vote to leave ? it be because of its excessive bureaucracy and its protectionism . why be it easy to trade with South Korea than with the EU if it be not for EU bureaucracy ? just to be clear , I be talk about one of the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth . but on the hon . member ' s point , the reason be the trade barrier put up by the conservative party as part of the Brexit deal . it be as simple as that . it be a protectionist party put up trade barrier , and it continue to advocate for it . on the issue of red tape , Epsom and Ewell constituent be face preventable delay on essential medication for condition such as diabete , ADHD and mental ill health . do my hon . friend agree that now be simply not the time to play politic , and that we must urgently seek a comprehensive mutual recognition agreement with the European Medicines Agency to cut the red tape that be so detrimental to the health of all of our constituent ? that be a really important point . we have see shortage of key medication — my hon . friend mention ADHD medication , which have a detrimental impact on the life of child and parent — like insulin and other . the Liberal Democrats understand that Britain belong at Europe ' s heart , not on its periphery , isolated and diminish . we recognise that rebuild these tie require patience and skilled diplomacy , but unlike the Tories , we will not bury our head in the sand . unlike Labour , we will not settle for tepid tinker . as such , we will abstain on the Government ' s amendment . we believe in Britain ' s potential and in Britain ' s future . we believe that our future be bright , strong and more prosperous when we work closely with Europe . today , the Conservatives ' motion offer no solution , only distraction from their disastrous record . Britain deserve leader who will properly rebuild relationship , deliver genuine prosperity and restore our standing in the world . this be the vision that the liberal Democrats offer — not Tory and Reform fantasy and not labour fence - sitting . we believe in practical solution , clear direction and an unwavering commitment to Britain ' s good interest . let we be honest , many on the Labour Benches agree with what I be say . they know that this fence - sitting will not cut it , but they be not allow to say so . fear not , we will say so . the Conservatives have nothing to say on Europe . Labour have tie itself up in red line . the public know that our country ' s future be european . for business and job , for our nation ' s security and our child ' s future , it be time to put the division of the past behind we and act in the national interest . we will vote against this nonsensical motion , and we stand ready to work constructively with the Government to build a close , more pragmatic relationship with our european friend and neighbour . many people may still be find thing a little bit gloomy and challenging as a result of the mess leave by the previous Government , as I be after 10 month of be a Member of Parliament , but today I be incredibly heartened . it be probably the happy day I have spend in the House yet , because we have a real opportunity to be hopeful and positive about the future of this country . the ideology and chaos that have cause so much damage , with the Conservative Government run frit from the Reform party , have now give way to a party that be pragmatic and have prove itself to be competent . I would love at this stage to congratulate the Government on their tremendous securing of trade deal with India and the USA . I be look forward to the hat - trick , where we secure a trade deal with the European Union that be even big and well than either of those two , and all in the british interest . what be absolutely clear to I — everybody know this in the Labour party and it run through everything the Prime Minister have say — be that this country have to get growth . over the last 14 year , service have be decimate . every time the new Government open a cupboard , we find it bare . we have to rebuild our public service , and the swift way to get growth in the economy be by have a good trade deal with the European Union . nothing will guarantee swifter growth for the economy . what be the hon . member ' s analysis of why growth projection have be halve since Labour come in ? I find it very hard to take anything that the Conservatives say with any degree of seriousness . what be their explanation for why , after 14 year , public service be on their knee and we have see a collapse in the economy ? we even hear a Conservative Front Bencher , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , say that there have be growth since leave the European Union " despite Brexit " — even the Conservatives admit that it be a disaster . nothing will deliver the growth that this country need fast than sign a good deal with the European Union , slash red tape and reduce regulation with the big market on our doorstep . open up market , kick - start growth , boost export and investment and reduce price at home — this prize would be welcome by anyone who be not a crazy ideologue . we on the Government side be not crazy ideologue or prisoner of our past — or of a television programme from the past . the action that the Conservatives take while in government have damage the british people . business across the country , and in Chelsea and Fulham , want we to get a good deal from the European Union . People in my constituency do not want we to rejoin the EU , and I be not talk about rejoin . they would like we still to be in it , and they think it have do they damage . the importer of wine in my constituency who have to pay £ 160 for every consignment he now bring in would like we still to be in the EU and to not have to face that . but they do not want we to spend the next five year renegotiate the deal . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . constituent and small and medium - sized business be cry out for this Labour Government to come forward and renegotiate a good trade deal so that business can thrive . do he agree that this Government be take the right pragmatic approach in want to deliver growth for our country ? I be most grateful to my hon . friend for stress that point . she be absolutely right ; we have a Government who have replace chaos and ideology with cool - headed , pragmatic determination . we have a trade deal with India and with the US , and we be go to get a good trade deal with the European Union . that be why it be a day for rejoice , not for doom and gloom and people rehash the past . not a single one of the Conservatives , except the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar on the Front Bench , who accept that despite Brexit the economy grow a little bit — Sarcasm ! oh , I didn ' t realise sarcasm wasn ' t allow . as I be say , I be very pleased , as many be , with the Government for be cool - headed and have a common - sense approach . we be go to reset our relationship with the European Union and put Britain first . put Britain first have to also mean put our young people first , so I be excite by the opportunity for young people in my constituency and every constituency to take advantage of a time - limit , control visa - base youth experience scheme , which we already have with a dozen country . the hon . Gentleman will know that thousand of young people — perhaps not in Chelsea but in most of the country — be neet , mean they be not in education , employment or training , and that number be grow . why should those young people , who be desperately seek access to education or job , have to compete with large number of people from abroad ? be that what the people in Chelsea and Fulham really want for the people who live in the rest of Britain ? I can tell the right hon . Gentleman what people in Chelsea and Fulham really want . they do not want a Prime Minister like the last but one — a " bugger business " Prime Minister — who say that we would level up to help people across the country but then do nothing about it . what they want be a Prime Minister who will invest in increase skill and apprenticeship right across the country , as ours say yesterday that he will . that be what we need , and that be what we be get now . on that point , because rhetoric be important , do the hon . member agree with Lord Dubs , who say that what the Prime Minister say yesterday be outrageous , or do he agree with the Alternative f ü r Deutschland leader , who agree with the Prime Minister ? I have to say , when you ask about Lord Dubs — Order . the hon . Member say " you " , but I do not ask the question . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member touch a soft spot when he mention Lord Dubs , who be a great friend and a doughty campaigner in my constituency . Lord Dubs will have his view , but I be talk about the Prime Minister set out an absolute commitment to increase the skill of young people right across the country , and that be in no way undermine by the prospect of a control visa - base youth experience scheme . in such unstable time , it be right that we should seek a close relationship with the European Union that will strengthen defence and security alongside our commitment to NATO . I be hopeful that the Government will pull off an agreement that , as hon . friend of mine have say already , will bring new job in the defence industry of this country . we be face the stark , most serious defence challenge that we have face for decade , and we have to meet it together with the European Union . have speak to many ambassador here , I know that they welcome Britain play its full role in defend our share continent . that be what we be do as a Government . that be why it be so disappointing , with all the prospect and excitement ahead of we , to hear the Conservatives and Reform still put ideology first , ahead of growth and security . they be fail to say what they would do instead and just want to continue with the status quo . the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) talk about the chaos that be bring to Kent , where truck back up for mile near Dover because the infrastructure for custom check be never ready , and fresh produce rot in the queue . that be under the Conservative Government . they jeopardise car manufacturing in Birmingham and the west midland , which be a region that rely on just - in - time EU supply chain . it be hit with rule of origin check , rise cost , and delay part — thank to the Conservatives . they sell out Cornwall ' s poor community by move out of european structural fund that have million in they , replace they with a share prosperity fund worth far less . that be the Conservative Government ' s fail Brexit . they weaken Port Talbot and the south Wales steel industry , make export hard and reduce competitiveness in what be already a challenge global market . they undermine scottish farmer and distiller by erect barrier to their large export market . this be all part of the record that the Conservatives be delighted to defend . I would not be delighted to defend such a record , but they be — so much so that they have bring forward this ridiculous motion today . I be delighted by the amendment that the Government have table . the contrast between our pragmatic , cool - head approach and these ideologue could not be starker . it be refreshing . the hon . Member have criticise the Opposition for the motion but , to give they their due , at least they have turn up . they deliver Brexit , but none of its architect , who would usually be sit on the Benches behind I , have show up . do that not show the contempt in which those member hold we , and voter as well ? I agree with the hon . member . if the Reform party ' s entire shtick for get elect be be anti - EU and think that it can defend the interest of the british people well by continue the chaotic , unfavourable system we have , with that be its entire reason for existence , it be not okay for one of its member of Parliament to ask a couple of question and skedaddle . as for the hon . member for Clacton — and for Florida — I do not know what he be do today , but he ought to be here . we should be cheer — it be refreshing — so let we be a little more optimistic as we look to next week and not say , " we ' re always go to be out - diddle by French and Germans . " that counsel of despair be pathetic . we be perfectly capable of negotiate trade deal , as we have show with deal with the US and India , to get the good for the british people , and that be what we will do with the European Union . that be what the people of this country vote for at the last election : an end to fail ideology , and the start of applied , cool - headed , determined common sense . as a result , at the end of the meeting next week and in future year , the british people will benefit . we should all be delighted about that . I be delighted to follow the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) and his flowery optimism for the future of this country , with it somehow be a terribly good thing that we be realign ourselves with the European Union without actually rejoin it . it make I wonder about all the debate I have attend over 33 year in the House about our relationship with what use to be call the common market , then the European Communities and now the European Union . this debate have a ring of familiarity about it , because there be two side in the House that tend to completely misunderstand each other — only , I think that Conservative Members now understand the truth , because that come out in the referendum . the referendum demonstrate that the House of Commons be completely out of alignment with the population on the question of our membership of the European Union . the whole Brexit story be about a battle within the House as to whether the pro - EU majority would assert itself and somehow negate the referendum , or whether the referendum would be respect . that be why my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition and her shadow Cabinet colleague be right to put at the front of the motion the importance of honour the referendum result . the fact be that a referendum result represent a superior mandate to a single term of election for an elected government , because that referendum take place on a single issue . I do not think anyone would pretend that the European Union be the main issue at the last general election , so anyone in the Government or indeed in the Liberal Democrats try to use the general election result as a mandate to circumvent the result of the 2016 referendum be play a dangerous political game . of course , that argument be use in reverse on those of we who have have concern about Europe for 40 year as we be tell — exactly to my hon . friend ' s point — that a referendum be superior to continuous election . we make a decision after the last referendum ; that be a generational move . we have hardly have a generation in the few year since the referendum . I agree with my right hon . friend . the important point be that we do not have a write constitution , but we do have in our mind a hierarchy of legitimacy on which , in the end , the democratic credibility of the House depend . the fact be , a referendum represent a superior mandate on a single issue and , with a great struggle , the pro - EU majority eventually align itself with the decision that the british people have take on our membership of the European Union . since we be stray into political idea and philosophy , be not the point that the democratic legitimacy we enjoy in this place be on the basis of popular consent , and there be no more direct expression of popular consent than a referendum , which be why its result have to be honour ? I agree with my right hon . friend , and that be why it be an extremely ominous portent that the Minister at the Dispatch Box refuse to answer he on the question of whether there would be alignment or subjection to the European Court of Justice . if the referendum be about one thing , it be about take back control of our law . in fact , many of we in the leave campaign at the time argue that the british people do understand sovereignty — they certainly do by the end of the referendum — and get into permanent alignment of regulation or subject the meaning of law apply in the United Kingdom to the scrutiny and jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice be give back control . it be a dangerous thing for a Government elect on the principle of honour the referendum result , and one who be now play dog - whistle politic with immigration , to be backslide in secret , with a sleight of hand , into allow jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice and permanent alignment back into our law while pretend that be not happen . that be exactly what the Minister do at the Dispatch Box . rise — I will give way to my right hon . friend , but I have another point that I wish to make . my hon . friend will well remember that during the referendum a booklet be circulate to every household in the United Kingdom , which famously say : " this be your decision . the Government will implement what you decide . " the people decide to leave , and some in this place spend three year try to frustrate their decision . in that context , be he concerned that today the Minister blatantly refuse three time to answer a straight question about whether the Government would concede dynamic alignment at the summit ? be that not the sort of duplicitous behaviour that make the public so angry in the first place ? I agree . but there be another dangerous game be play by another political party : the Liberal Democrats . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) press the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) , who want to rejoin the European Union , on whether there would be another referendum , and he do not say that there would be . that we would have a referendum to leave the European Union but not require a new referendum to rejoin it would be incendiary politic for this country . why have people become disillusioned with their politician ? it be because politician seem to agree to one proposition and then do something completely different from what be vote for . I hope we can all agree on one proposition : that there could be no possibility of a proposal to rejoin the European Union or to accept dynamic alignment or the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice — except over its current limited area , which will eventually expire — without a further referendum . that be a serious matter . the hon . member talk about people lose their trust in politic . do he agree that the promise of £ 350 million a week to go to the NHS , which be broadcast on the side of a big red bus during the referendum , might have somewhat reduce trust in his party ? I be happy to point out that after the referendum and since we leave the European Union , we be spend way more than £ 350 million a week more on the NHS than we be , and our contribution to the European Union have fall dramatically — in fact , much fast than be expect under the withdrawal agreement . so the benefit that be on the side of the bus have turn out to be correct , although I believe it be a statistical sleight of hand to use that particular number ; I disown it at the time . but have no doubt that if we be to get draw back into the European Union , we will have to start raid the NHS to make payment to the European Union again . I do not think that be what the british people vote for . that bring I back to this great defence fund , which I think will be borrow . will we have to borrow some of that fund as well ? no , it be go to be borrow through some European Central Bank mechanism . will it instead be tax ? in any case , it be all Government borrowing , so will we add to Government borrowing by participate in the borrowing or funding of that fund , or would it not be well if we just remain aloof from it to concentrate on spend money on our own defence ? that be the point that have already be make : the money that we have commit to defence over the year , in the period since the second world war and , indeed , since the end of the cold war , be far great than that of the vast majority of EU country . we also mandate our nuclear deterrent to the protection of the whole of Europe . we play our part in the defence of Europe . as for the idea that we can deploy troop more quickly through free movement of people , what planet be the Liberal Democrats on ? it be utterly ludicrous . I come back to the point about the defence fund . there have be such fund in Europe before , but I can assure Members that the game that every country play be the one where what they put in , they get out . the French be past master at that . they will participate in a multilateral programme , but if they do not get the lion ' s share , they pull out . they pull out of the Eurofighter programme when that be mean to be part of their deal because they be not get enough work out of it . therefore , the idea that it be a freebie for british defence company to participate in the fund and get extra money into the british defence industry will simply not happen . in any case , this fund be not about create warfighting capability this year or next year , which be what we need ; it be about the very long - term , big programme that the defence industry want . that will not rescue we from America ' s absence from NATO , if that be to occur for more than a few month or a few year under Donald Trump . let we also remember that Donald Trump will not be there forever ; he have 45 more month to go . let we not do more damage to NATO by make it look to the other side of the Atlantic that we will take care of our own defence in Europe from now on . that be very dangerous . I remember Madeleine Albright , a Democrat Secretary of State , rail against what be then call the european security and defence policy . she warn that it represent the " Three Ds " : the duplication of NATO asset , which be wasteful and unnecessary ; the discrimination against non - EU member of NATO such as Norway , Turkey , Canada and the United States ; and the decoupling of american and european defence policy . be that what we want ? be that what this House want ? be that what the Labour party want ? no . the Labour party say that NATO be the cornerstone of our defence and rightly so , but what signal be it send to President Trump ? will my hon . friend give way ? I ask that he wait just a minute . what signal be it send to Donald Trump by suggest that we will have an EU defence policy that exclude the United States ? it be exactly the wrong signal for this moment . I be pleased that my hon . friend raise that point , which I want to elaborate far . the real point be that J . d . vance , the vice president , come over to Munich and rip a hole through the Europeans , include ourselves , for not have spend enough , although we be one of the top spender . since then , the Americans have go on and on about that , but each time we get the sense that they be keener to decouple . do what we be about to do not give strength to the argument that we do not need they any long and therefore they need to look somewhere else ? that be the danger , because NATO be not just about defence of the west ; it be about make sure that the US never go into isolationism again . yes . that promise of create an EU defence capability have be on the table since the St Malo declaration of 1999 , in the aftermath of the Maastricht treaty that first introduce the word " defence " into the EU . that be when France and the United Kingdom , under a Labour Government , declare that the EU would have autonomous military capability , with separable but not separate military force from NATO . we still have the absurdity in which the armed force of the EU country be allocate to NATO task but , at the same time , be ready for EU task . there have to be a complicated de - confliction arrangement to try to ensure that an EU defence mission do not conflict with a NATO defence mission . we finish up with something call the Berlin - plus arrangement , which Turkey have never accept because it be not a member of the EU but be a member of NATO . there have always be an impasse between NATO and the EU on those two question , and it be all completely unnecessary because NATO have a military headquarters , it have a political committee and it be an international organisation . indeed , it be the most successful military alliance in the world . why be the EU try to duplicate it just for itself ? the EU be more interested in statecraft and state - building than defend our own continent . the anger with which Ursula von der Leyen and Friedrich Merz have attack Trump reflect a latent anti - Americanism that have always be there and which we could do without at this moment . my hon . friend make a profound argument . he highlight the EU , which see itself as a supranational body , and NATO , which , by nature , be anything but that , in that it be a confederation of sovereign nation . that tension lie at the heart of the EU ' s ill - conceal and now evident disdain for NATO . I do not know whether the Government be careless or unknowing of that . they be either complicit or ignorant ; I wonder which one my hon . friend think it be . sadly , European Union defence have always promise far more than it deliver . it be mean to galvanise all the european state into spend more money ; it fail and just do not do that . when any serious military operation be require , it be NATO . to the EU ' s credit , some EU military operation be take place , but they be on a very limited scale . the british and the Americans need to reinforce the Balkans now , because the Europeans be not commit enough on their own and be incapable of do so . even if , this time , there be rapid growth in EU military capability to address the crisis that we face , it would take decade to replicate what the Americans currently provide , such as tactical nuclear weapon and air cover . why do the EU need to have its own air defence policy when that be exactly what NATO do ? it do european air defence . we need to bolster NATO . it be encourage that force plan for a possible peacekeeping force in Ukraine be all be do at NATO and not in the EU crisis management centre or at EU military headquarters . only NATO have the capability to plan large - scale military activity . indicate dissent . the hon . Gentleman shake his head . what do he know about it ? I would be interested in he challenge I . do the hon . Gentleman not see the fragility of a european defence that be dependent on key item of american hardware , which he correctly identify that we do not have , and which it will take decade for we to replicate , operate , integrate with our system and train people on ? do he not see the fragility of our defence if President Trump or another incoming US leader say , " actually , you ' re on your own . we don ' t care about the defence of Ukraine " ? order . while I be in the Chair , intervention will be short than that . I be glad that the hon . Gentleman have make that point , but the good thing for all european nation be not to try to build our own EU defence capability , but to strengthen NATO . there be an argument that we be somehow do this through the EU so that it can strengthen NATO , but I do not think that be really the ambition of the bureaucrat in Brussels . they have a flag and a Parliament , and they want an army — a Euro army . that be what people periodically talk about , particularly the Germans and the French . they want a Euro army , but that would send the wrong signal to President Trump . yes , we need to develop those capability , but let we develop they through NATO . be not the hon . member ' s point put beyond all doubt by the wording of article 42 of the treaty of the EU , which expressly say that the purpose of co - operation be to arrive at common defence ? be it not therefore perfectly clear that the EU be set itself up to have its own sovereign defence capability ? yes , and when we look at the European Defence Agency and all the mechanism that have be create , we can see that the European Defence Agency be an embryo European Ministry of Defence . that be what be intend . let we just suppose that , in the ideal world that Labour and the Liberal Democrats live in , this defence capability come about . the fundamental problem be that the European Union be never originally conceive as a defence and foreign policy organisation . there be many country in it with very different — [ interruption . ] no , it be functionalism that drive the foundation of the European Communities . it be about trade and create a single market . defence be never in the mind of the early founder of the European Union , and it be very ill suit to the task of get defence capability , because the institution be not design for that purpose . it be not in the culture of those institution . to rely on they for our defence and security be extremely unwise . on the other hand , NATO be already very well suit to the task and do not need to be duplicate . to put it mildly , give the political disunity in the European Union , particularly towards Trump — okay , that afflict NATO as well — this be not an instant solution to the political problem in NATO , if those be what the European Union be seek to resolve . we should dispense with the idea that make a defence pact with the European Union be somehow the great panacea for all the problem we face on our continent because of President Putin . on the contrary , I think it be likely to make thing bad — more complicated and more bureaucratic — and it would probably make our defence industry less competitive , because they would be cocoon inside this fund , instead of compete on the on the global stage with the Americans . incidentally , our defence procurement co - operation with the Americans remain essential . they have the lion ' s share of the technology ; they be way ahead of the European Union when it come to technology . so , why be the Government do this ? I think they have always be religiously commit to the idea of EU defence — they introduce it in the first place , in the St Malo declaration — but why be they so devoted to do this now ? of course , it be what the European Union really want . we be the supplicant in these negotiation . we be ask the EU for concession , and the one thing that would really make it feel good be draw the United Kingdom into the defence arena of the European Union . meanwhile , what concession be we get from the EU ? I do not see any . it will be interesting to find out . it will not instantly reduce all trade barrier , because we be not in the single market and will not be in the single market . it will still apply all the check , include the antiquated wet stamp that be apply to form certify the fitness of shellfish . wet stamp be so last century , but the EU be still use they on custom form . that be how backward it be . there be electronic frontier between african country where there be no barrier . incidentally , that be the answer to the Northern Ireland problem . I fully support the opposition ' s proposal , which be to question everything that the EU will demand of we and which the Government might pursue , and to reserve our ability to tear up those agreement if they be not in the national interest . the Government do not have a monopoly on the national interest . " national interest " be a subjective term — the national interest might be different in the mind of one person and in the mind of another . as far as I be concern , we leave the European Union in the national interest , because we want to remain a sovereign democracy , in charge of our own law , and to be like most other country that be not in the European Union ; they get on fine . as my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) point out , the economy be still grow , or be grow until the Government hit it with their Budget . we have every opportunity at our foot . one of the reason we leave the European Union — sorry to relitigate all these argument — and leave that slow - growth , high - unemployment , high - regulation , high - tax trade bloc be so that we could make deal with the high - growth , low - regulation , high - employment part of the world , which in the end will provide we with far more business than we get from the EU . actually , the vast majority of our trade , particularly our service trade , be outside the EU — people forget that . by be obsess with trade with the EU , we drive our economy into a straitjacket ; we be well out of that . the Government should take away from this debate a warning . they know that they be be attack by Reform . those voter would probably never vote conservative , or be less likely to vote conservative than Labour , but they be go to reform because they can sense the backsliding go on in this Government . if there be ever to be another referendum , I would hazard a guess that the vote would be against rejoin the European Union , so there can be no rejoin by stealth , which seem to be the Government ' s policy . we will stand by the british people , and will dishonour any agreement that the Government make with the European Union that be not in our interest . indeed , there be part of the withdrawal agreement that we may need to revisit — for example , in the Northern Ireland protocol . the technology have move on , and we can move to an electronic frontier across the north - south border , without the need for check on trade between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom . one of the found principle of the Act of Union be that there should be frontier - free trade within the United Kingdom as a whole . if the continue development of the Northern Ireland protocol continue to impose those check , those check be not in the national interest , and we should reserve the right to jettison the protocol and replace it with something well . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak , and I commend the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) on stay on his foot for nearly half an hour — quite an impressive feat . it be an honour to follow he ; he be elect 33 year ago , when I be nine . I imagine that he have see a lot of history over the past 33 year , and over the past nearly 10 year since the referendum . if we think about the main feature of that history , it be indisputable that we live in a new world . we have the illegal invasion of Ukraine ; Taiwan be act as a test point ; NATO and the UN be at risk ; and there be rise authoritarian populism , which risk democratic backsliding , be that through the undermining of institution , power be concentrate in the Executive , the dismissal of check and balance , grow electoral interference , or big tech captain involve themselves in democratic politic like never before . we see economic inequality on an unprecedented scale . that create a risk of democratic instability , here and around the world . there be also the risk of wealth concentration , unaddresse tax haven network , rise social inequality , and people feel leave out . issue of development , aid and debt relief be go from our political discussion . the rise of technology risk create democratic threat . artificial intelligence and social medium create the potential for deepfake , automate disinformation , cyber - attack and the development of lethal system with no human oversight . there be health challenge , such as the global pandemic that we have be through . climate change continue unabated and remain unaddresse at the scale need , create the possibility of resource conflict , climate refugee flow and stress on nature and wildlife . if that have not convince the House that I be a fun time down the pub , I do not know what will . I say all that because those be the major threat that have emerge in the past 10 year — and that be not an exhaustive list . if I carry on , Members would want I to sit down fast . we have to face reality . all of we in this place be elect to behave like grown - up — to face the fact , debate on the basis of reality , and come up with common - sense solution . give that we face those threat — I have not even mention the lion ' s share of threat in the UK , which I would say we inherit from the previous Government — it be no wonder that people outside the wall of Westminster feel that we go too slow and do not focus on the thing that they care about . it be no wonder that people be succumb to hopelessness , and feel that politics be not meet their need . a question be ask early about what be on the ballot paper . I accept that the European Union be not on the ballot paper as an existential question . however , what be on the ballot paper be quality of life in our country , the state of our economy , and the possibility that generation will be lock out of the democratic agreement and social contract on a fair chance at life . we Labour Members be say that trade be a solution to some of those challenge . as I be say , people outside the wall of this Palace feel frustrated by the slowness of our debate . rise — I will come to you shortly . we must recognise the importance of urgency . that be why I be genuinely extremely pleased that we have a Government who have move forward in recent day and week with two significant trade deal . the first , with India , be achieve in 10 month , after the Conservatives have spend eight year say that they would get a deal . we roll up our sleeve and get a deal that will put more money into people ' s pocket , create job here , and benefit our economy . the trade deal with the United States be not what we would have get have Kamala Harris be elect President ; it be the deal we could get with Donald Trump as President , and I think that it show realistic , common - sense negotiation . will the hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I will come to you . that deal will put money in people ' s pocket , grow our economy and create job . now , we have the prospect of a third trade deal , with the European Union , on the horizon . it would be a really important deal . that be crucial , because if we do not foster the condition for trade in a world of global insecurity , we will create further problem in our democracy and around the world . rise — I think Sir John want to intervene . order . the hon . Member have say " you " twice , and now say " Sir John " . it be a very long - establish convention that member do not refer to right hon . and hon . colleague by name . I be extremely grateful to my namesake for give way . he be make an interesting speech . he be right that global power and its growth be make people feel that they can not affect decision making ; that be a profound point , but we need to root power close to people , not detach it from they , as happen when power be give over to foreign potentate , whether in the EU or any other part of the world . I agree with the right hon . member . with the UK a sovereign , independent trading nation , we in this place be able to shape the debate and condition of trade . we have the prospect of an EU trade deal before we , and we must grasp it . if we do not , we will see our country fall far behind . there be area of possibility for that trade deal . for example , there be a need for the transfer and exchange of clean energy between the UK and France and the European Union on a large scale . I have the privilege of visit Gosport recently to see IFA2 — Interconnexion France - Angleterre 2 — where the subsea interconnector be exchange clean energy between the UK and France , ensure that we can keep the light on not only here but in France and across the European Union . surely energy security be an important feature of our democracy , in an age where we be threaten by Putin and other dictator . the hon . member talk about we be a sovereign nation and be able to choose our trade deal . I assume we will get a vote in this place on the shape of a future trade deal with the United States , so that we be able to examine it , vote and exercise our parliamentary sovereignty . I thank the hon . member for listen to some of what I say . I say that we in this place have the right to speak in debate such as this , to shape the condition of trade . clearly , with the Minister on the Front Bench listen acutely to everything that member be say , that message be be carry into Government — the Minister be nod profusely — in which case , we will have that democratic accountability . I turn to the other area of potential EU - UK relationship improvement . defence be obviously a core part of that . NATO be the cornerstone of our collective security , but a strong UK must sit alongside strong european country . the UK be raise its defence spending to an unprecedented level and make effort to grow our defence industrial base . we need to do that not only for our own security and the security of democracy , but to set an example to european country about raise their own defence spending , while work with they to grow our collaboration . on the question of trade , all of we in this House , whichever party we represent , will have have small business come to our surgery and tell we about the red tape they encounter as a result of the Brexit deal . if they vote for Brexit , they do not vote for that Brexit deal ; they vote for something very different . I think we can all recognise that , and if we do not , we be not listen to our constituent when they come to our surgery and tell we their truth very clearly . by reduce red tape , we can help to grow the number of job in our economy , open up our border to more trade and smooth our export , which be critical if we be go to achieve the Government ' s no . 1 goal of grow our economy . without growth in our economy , we will not raise living standard , we will not be a country at ease with itself , we will not again be confident on the world stage , and we will not be a lead democratic voice in a world of strengthen democracy . do the hon . Member agree that rejoin a custom union would achieve all those aim of reduce red tape ? I do not agree . I be talk about a very different proposal that be meet the need of our constituent . in the interest of allow more member to speak in the debate , I will take no more intervention . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? after 30 minute of speak , the hon . Member have probably say everything he need to say , and if he do not , we have a serious problem in this House . on the question of expand opportunity in the UK - EU relationship , I be particularly strike by the need for a capped , control , balanced youth mobility scheme . around our country , include in my constituency of Bournemouth East , young people be suffer generational challenge that their predecessor do not face , be it their inability to buy a home at an affordable price , find secure work or get the education they want , or the fact that they have go through a cost of live crisis and a pandemic . surely we owe it to our young generation to provide they with some of the condition that will allow for a well life . a capped , balanced , control youth mobility scheme be key to that . such a scheme will not just be beneficial for the youth of the UK . I have in my constituency a significant number of english language school . I have the privilege of visit Beet Language Centre in my constituency last Friday for a roundtable that it host , and we be join by other important language school . they talk to I about the difficult financial circumstance they be all in and the difficulty of keep the door open because of the damaging Brexit deal that be negotiate . with a youth mobility scheme , we can put money back into our english language sector , which be critical . we be live in an insecure world . Britain ' s soft power be critical to ensure that we be respect around the world . by bring people to the UK — and particularly to sunny Bournemouth — for one to two week , or four to six week , they get a sense of how wonderful , open and accept we be as a country . they can then take that back to their family and their home country , and they can grow an affection for this country , come back repeatedly , spend money here and grow our tourism sector . Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole have the high concentration of english language school of any borough or local authority in the UK ; they contribute £ 400 million to the BCP economy . indeed , english language school contribute £ 44 billion nationally . imagine how much well we could be if we have a youth mobility scheme and support for our english language school . I will soon conclude my speech so more member can speak , but before sit down I want to talk about not just the importance of the UK - EU reset as a way of deliver trade in its own right between the UK and the EU , but the benefit of trade . in an increasingly protectionist world , we need to be talk up the benefit of trade . trade bring people into close , and more harmonious and profitable relation , with one another . it bring down the wall and the barrier between nation . it make war less likely because it bind people in peace . it do not just put money into people ' s pocket or create job in our community ; it grow our economy fast and it raise living standard . we know that trade have its challenge , but — do well — trade deal can help to make sure our country prosper . at its heart , the EU - UK reset should be about trade , our economy and our business . it should not be a question of identity , culture war and scaremongere . it should be about grow - up gathering in this Chamber and talk about what be important to our constituent on the basis of the fact , rather than rehash old , tired debate and scaremongere . we need to face the future , and I be pleased that finally we have a Government who be do so . it be good to follow the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) and to be remind of how old he be when I first come here ; I hope he stay here as long as well , or maybe I do not hope for that as it might mean we Conservative Members will be on the Opposition Benches forever . today ' s debate be on an important topic and there have be some very good contribution already , but I want to get to the bottom of what the Government really want out of this negotiation , because they have be a little bit tepid in come forward on the key issue . I welcome the Government ' s negotiation in India — finish off a trade arrangement deal or whatever it be with the Indian Government . I welcome too that they have be able to begin to negotiate with the United States , although they have not secure a full trade deal . by the way , they would not have get a trade deal if the Democrats have get back into office because they reject it for four year . in fact , President Biden say that there would be no trade deal with the UK . let we not just observe that because the Democrats be not trump , somehow they be go to give we a trade deal . I have my problem with the current President , but President Biden absolutely do not want trade with we ; it be as simple as that . that be a mistake on his part . he have a real opportunity , because the trade deal be pretty much all do — and then it be bin . there be also the question of the reason we be able to do these trade deal with the rest of the world , to which we export more than the European Union . we should do more of those trade deal . the Conservative Government do 73 after Brexit , although some of they be mop up the one that we have before . I stand ready to congratulate the Labour Government if they use the freedom Brexit give they to get more trade arrangement , because that be what we be here for . I might want to press they far and say they could get a lot more out of the US , but that be another debate all together . I do not disagree with the idea that the deal we do with the European Union be capable of be improve . of course it be , because the EU put up many barrier in the course of that negotiation ; it weaponise Northern Ireland distinctly , and that be a grave error on its part . it risk some of the process of peace in Northern Ireland by make it a critical negotiating tool that could be use as leverage later in the rest of the negotiation , and as a result we have be leave with a problem in Northern Ireland . I encourage the Government to have a very good look at that . I do not vote for the Windsor agreement because I think it do not solve the problem by a long chalk , and it have leave Northern Ireland in the same position as before , with a couple of small modification . this debate be really about get into the issue . I say to the Minister that the European Union do not play straight about phytosanitary from day one in the negotiation , and it still do not play straight . the fact be that our standard in animal welfare and product health be , and always have be , above those of the European Union . the European Union know that . the reality be that somehow it decide that there have to be all these phytosanitary check and change , and it be desperately keen to get dynamic alignment now , because that mean that there will be a rule - base order come from the EU . that be what it have always want to do . the truth be that the European Union do not have that arrangement with other country around the world . for example , it be quite happy to have New Zealand vet check their product before departure . those product go in through Rotterdam without any check , other than check that they come from the area specify . the EU know which vet it authorise , so it do that . it could have do that here in the UK . I sit down with Monsieur Barnier and a group of people to have a long discussion when the negotiation break down as a result of what be go on here in Parliament , and I very much remember that we talk about trust each other ' s regulation and work with that trust to get an arrangement that make it as easy as possible to get good across the border . he accept that then , say that , provide we could trust each other ' s veterinary authority , we would not need to have the phytosanitary rule as propose at the moment . it be only later , when my party in government come back and do a terrible shimmy with he , that he think he have it all , so he take it . the reality be that the EU know all along , from the word go , that it be easy to put in place these arrangement than it make out . I have always find the phytosanitary objection peculiar , because it could be sort out very quickly . our standard be high than the EU ' s , and our vet be quite capable of check different producer to see whether they fit european standard . that be all it be : be they up to european standard , and be european standard up to ours when the EU export to we ? it be very simple . that can be do in every trade deal , and the EU already do it with other country that be not , and have never be , part of that Union . there be an idea that to get this issue sort , we would have to go into dynamic alignment and accept the EU ' s rule over our product , but it would make it more difficult to make future trade arrangement if we be rule - taker from the European Union and could not negotiate these area ourselves . that bring I back to my previous point . before I return to that issue , I want to raise another point . the trouble be that the argument I hear make — that a phytosanitary agreement involve dynamic alignment would address the price of food — be patently absurd . if SPS check concern the price of food , we could unilaterally relax they . they do not have to be where they be : that be our decision to take . it would not change or lower the price of food . if anything , it would be more likely to block we from do a number of thing , such as gene edit in food and work that we want to do that the European Union do not want to do . all these thing put at risk where we may be in future trade arrangement and the direction in which we may want to develop farming here . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I want to make a couple of point on this issue before I give way . we know , and everybody else around the world outside the EU know , that the EU put up very hidden tariff barrier . America be right about that ; it complain that Europe find all sort of little regulation and problem , so that it can not break in with its product and good . that have happen for a long time , and it have happen with we — we know that it be even happen when we be in the EU . we be by nature a free - trading country , and there be no way on earth that we think the EU as a construct be as free trading in that sense . it want to protect its market more than anything else , rather than open up to the rest of the world . Welsh food and drink export have fall by 18 % since 2018 . do that not evidence the damage that have be do to Wales by these deal ? if damage have be do to export to the European Union , as I say early , that be about the attitude of the European Union to protectionism in the EU . its trade with we have not fall away on that basis , because we do not set up those barrier in the first place , so my argument to the hon . Gentleman be very simple : the European Union want it all . that be the reality of what we be deal with . it want it all , and it negotiate in bad faith from the word go . we have an agreement , which be a pretty good agreement as trade agreement go . it be one of the large trade agreement that we have . it can always be improve — I do not disagree with that — but the reality be that we need to deal with an organisation that be as relaxed about be fair to we as we be about be fair to it . that have be our big problem from the word go . return to phytosanitary issue , I have have debate and discussion with the Minister , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , in the past , and we have agree with each other many time . I laud he for his stance on Russia and everything else — there be no question about that — but I want to quote from a little document that I come across from the Centre for European Reform . by the way , it be very complimentary to say that I read thing that I do not agree with . I tend to do that quite a lot , strangely — it be a bad habit of mine , I know . that document be very close to how the European Union ' s head of department all think , and it say : " labour ' s red line do not extend to rule out dynamic alignment or a role for the ECJ in dispute settlement . " as such , I ask the Minister this simple question : be the Centre for European Reform correct ? do the Government ' s red line rule out dynamic alignment , or do they not ? I will give way to the Minister right now , because I be generous like that , and he probably want to answer that question . I tempt he to come to the Dispatch Box and say whether the Government ' s red line rule out dynamic alignment . could they , and will they , agree to dynamic alignment and ECJ rule ? I will give way to he now , because I see that he be begin to move . indicate dissent . he be not — what a pity . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? with respect to the hon . Gentleman , he have a little while to go before he stand at the Dispatch Box . I be after the Minister , not he , but we will get to that in due course . the reality be that the Government could agree to dynamic alignment — there be no denial of that . essentially , the Government be go into this negotiation know full well that they be so desperate on phytosanitary matter that they will give way on dynamic alignment . that be exactly what the EU want . my real worry in all of this , however , be that we know what be go on — I will just move on to another topic , and then I will sit down and give other member a chance to speak . Most of all , I be worried about bad faith . when we talk about improvement — which , to be fair to the Government , they do with the European Union — what do France do almost immediately ? the Prime Minister be show some leadership over Ukraine , try to galvanise the other nation , which be his role . his role be to haul America and keep it with we , and he have be do that . I do not have any criticism of that , but when the Prime Minister get involve , say that Europe should form a coalition of the willing and that he want to drive that far forward and get some kind of agreement on it , what do France immediately say ? " not before you give we access to fishing . " that be it . in no world do fishing have anything to do with defence , yet France weaponise fishing to block off the UK , which have take the — I think — generous position of say that it want to galvanise Europe to do more . the problem here be that if we take out the country that join since the Ukraine war , Europe across the board spend half of what the United States do on defence in dollar term . we have more people and more industry in Europe , yet we spend half of what America do on weaponry and defence . that be a shocking position for a member of NATO to be in . we have not stand up . we have do well — still not good enough — but what the rest of Europe have do have be shocking . by the way , the country that just tell we that we will not get any discussion unless fishing be on the agenda have be one of the bad spender on defence in the European Union , let alone in global term . Less than we . way less than we , and less than most of the other — it be at the bottom of the scale . I simply say to the Government that the Prime Minister be right to press on defence , to get the european nation to step up , but as my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) say early , we have a mechanism for that . the Prime Minister be right to do it through NATO , and we must not allow Europe to slide away from NATO as its mean of defence . I watch , as do many of its leader , when Vice - President Vance lecture the European Union in Munich . what he say shock the european leader , as it be mean to — he lay into Europe quite vindictively — but fair enough . however , where we be now head , towards somehow encourage those country peculiarly to form some kind of European Union defence organisation , be exactly what will give the American Administration permission to say , " well , you can do this yourself . " we be already halfway there , by the way , because we be form a coalition of the willing but America be not willing , and we be at odd with it over its relationship with Ukraine . we agree about the ceasefire , but America have now change its position and will now be hold negotiation before a ceasefire . I think that that be wrong , by the way . although I be personally a big supporter of America , I think it be mistaken on that particular point and the Government be right . my point be that we be put the whole of NATO at risk for a phytosanitary and fishing deal . in what world do anyone do that ? what be we do it for ? the answer , it seem to I , be that we be too desperate to curry favour with an organisation that , when push come to shove and when it come to defence , need we more than we need it . it need the UK to be lock into this because we be the key to so much of what it need to do with defence . I say to the Government , " you have much strong tool in your hand than you may think . " we have key persuasive power on defence , and we should not sell they on the basis that they should become european and we should destroy NATO , or damage NATO , simply because we want to make some kind of adjustment or improvement which include dynamic alignment and the loss of the possibility of future trade negotiation . unlike many Opposition Members , my constituent have little appetite for a relitigation of the Brexit debate of 2016 . back at the time of referendum , 66 % of they vote to leave the European Union ; there be scant desire for we to rejoin , and even less desire for a return to embrace freedom of movement . I will always put my constituent first , and these be red line that I understand , honour and respect . however , my constituent also see the change world around we , and recognise that the world have be transform immeasurably since 2016 . the term on which we leave the European Union do not match the global moment that we face today . President Trump ' s tariff have rock the international economic order . War have break out in Europe , and there be a need for dramatically increase defence spending and new method of work with international colleague . a new wave of mass migration from the middle east and Africa , and the small boat crisis in our channel , can only be properly handle through further co - operation with our international partner . basically , my constituent be patriotic . they want their country to be resilient to new threat , and prosperous in a chaotic world . while any future with the European Union must respect critical red line on control border and protect ultimate sovereignty in Westminster , there be now scope for a new thread , a new relationship , to embolden our security and economic interest in a volatile world . this new approach can , should and will , I believe , overcome the increasingly desperate , archaic , old - fashioned attack from some Opposition Members about the so - call Brexit betrayal , and the british public know that . polling by the Good Growth Foundation show that 73 % of the public support significant co - operation with the EU on trade and the economy , defence and security . More than twice as many adult say that the EU be the UK ' s most trustworthy ally , rather than the United States under its current President , and about 60 % of the public say that it be imperative for we to have a close relationship with the European Union in the future . a new , well deal with the European Union be popular because few think that the current relationship be work . many , while support the principle of Brexit and have vote in favour of it in 2016 , feel that its execution during the chaotic conservative premiership have be disastrous . the public ' s desire for change be a reality that the conservative party can not seem to wake up to . although I fundamentally disagree with its principle , it have be a great party . at their good , the Conservatives have be successful in modernise the country in line with global trend . they bring we into Europe , and play a pivotal role in build the single market that so many Europeans enjoy today . give their track record , it be sad to see that they seem to oppose the notion of negotiate a new and well relationship with Europe . the party of Churchill and Thatcher , who once lead on the world stage , be now leave to carp from the sideline , like talk radio commentator from a bygone era . the Leader of the Opposition be busy denounce every post - Brexit deal that this Labour Government sign as inadequate or a betrayal , include those that she fail to get over the line when she be Trade Secretary . on this issue , as with so many of the Conservatives ' current fixation , the public have simply leave they behind . the Conservatives be fight yesterday ' s battle . although the theme that win such support in the referendum can not be ignore , change be require . any entanglement of political structure , and any notion of increase immigration or a lack of control , will rightly be meet with outrage by those who support Brexit , but the benefit of a close deal be now clear . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his tribute to the conservative party ; it have indeed be a great party and remain so . on entanglement , he make a valid point about co - operation and collaboration , but that have always be the case . of course we must work with other country , but the core issue here be authority . Entanglement mean grant authority to a power outside this country . surely this movement of young people , which be a dress - up form of free movement , be just that . I reject the right hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of the policy . I will come on to that specific policy in a moment , but his characterisation be unfair . I be not in the habit of give advice to the Conservatives , but my understanding be that at the last general election , the party finish fifth among voter under the age of 35 . look in the mirror and think about how they have end up in that position might be a worthwhile way to spend some time . the benefit of a close deal be now clear : a unified carbon and electricity market could raise billion of pound in revenue for the Treasury , and more collaboration on defence would ease pressure , enhance capability , and support joint procurement and R & D in key area . there be also scope — this go to the right hon . Gentleman ' s point — for a capped UK - EU youth mobility scheme to be part of the deal , but it have to be negotiate and the devil will be in the detail . there should be tight limit on the number , access to service and duration of stay , and it should be part of an agreement whereby the EU help the UK with many of the challenge that we face with immigration . this be part of a relationship that do not stop at one moment or at one deal ; it be an ongoing relationship . this Government be open , negotiate , listen and get the good deal for Britain , and it be one that I support . as so often be the case , the political class be lag behind public opinion and fight the last battle . the Brexit paradigm that certainly define british politic between 2016 and 2020 be history , and the Government be right to look to the future and pursue a well and deep relationship with our european partner in order to improve living standard , offer economic protection and ensure our country ' s security . I be pleased that this Government appear willing to seize the moment , and I look forward to support their effort in that endeavour in the come week . rise — Order . I do not intend to introduce a time limit , but member will be aware that there be in the region of 25 people wish to speak . they might like to consider how long they will spend on their foot , so that as many colleague as possible can get in . last week , this House recognise the 80th anniversary of the ally victory in Europe , so I find it somewhat strange that today the party of Churchill be call for a debate that seek to drive a wedge between we and our friend and ally on the continent . I speak on behalf of the young people , farmer , fisherman and small business owner of my constituency — [ hon . member : " Fishermen ? " ] yes , plural ! they be hard - work people who have feel the consequence of our severance from Europe . the bungling of farming and fishery policy since Brexit have lead to supply chain disruption , reduce access to export market and financial uncertainty for our producer . our farmer — once able to trade freely with Europe — now find themselves bogge down in paperwork , lose out to competitor who enjoy smoother trade arrangement . despite the turbulence of Brexit , the European Union remain our large trading partner . to undermine this reality seem , to my mind , to be a curious act of economic self - harm . grand promise of scale back Brussels bureaucracy be make , but precisely the opposite have occur , with more red tape , delay and headache for our business and trader . as be put to the Lib Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) , at the start of the debate , the red tape be come from the EU , not we . why be the ire of the Lib Dems never direct at the people responsible for introduce the trade barrier ? I simply do not accept what the hon . Member say . big corporation may be able to adapt , shift operation — [ interruption . ] do be quiet for a minute ! big corporation may be able to adapt , shift operation and sidestep the chaos , but for our small business — the backbone of our economy — this be not merely an inconvenience , but a catastrophe . ask my constituent Becca James of Williton what she have make of the Brexit fallout , have run a superb au pair agency that fold . as an MP represent many sme in my constituency of Tiverton and Minehead — Minehead be on the sea , hence the fisherman — I hear daily about their struggle to keep trading and to navigate new regulation . conservative government have hang they out to dry , leave they to fend for themselves in a post - brexit economic landscape riddle with uncertainty . talk about cut off your nose to spite your face . we must swerve the temptation of dogma and pursue policy that benefit our economy , our people and our future . we must come to term with the fact that form a new custom arrangement would offset much of this harsh impact and would be a sign of a more grow - up politic . I and my party be look forward eagerly to the Government ' s big reset in the week to come . without a comprehensive trading arrangement with the EU , it will be clear that reset just mean rebrand . fishery have not fare any well . grandstand notion of reclaim british water turn out to be hollow , as coastal community have see dwindle profit , complicated licensing , and deal that have leave they materially worse off than before . if only the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) have attend more than one of the 42 meeting of the EU Parliament Committee on Fisheries , which he be pay to attend , our fisherman might be on a more even keel . we must embrace the EU youth mobility scheme . the West Somerset area of my constituency sit at 324th out of 324 on the social mobility index , and while there be no overnight panacea to this , I believe that those from disadvantaged background have access to opportunity on the continent can only be a good thing . the youth mobility scheme would democratise travel and work abroad by remove the financial barrier that typically make it an option only for the privileged . it would empower talented young people who may have the skill but lack the financial mean to access the same opportunity as their more affluent peer . why should they be reserve for a few ? it be my firm belief that travel and broaden one ' s experience can be one of the good form of education . why would we deny our young people that golden ticket to live , work , study and build lifelong friendship in Europe ? this be not entirely an argument about economic , for what monetary value can be place on broaden the horizon of our young people wherever those opportunity may lie ? it be a peculiar irony that young people from nation on the other side of the world — the like of our australian and Kiwi friend — be part of this scheme , while the UK across that small body of water know as the channel , or la manche , remain on the outside look in . I will end with the word of the European Union preamble : nous somme uni dans notre diversit é , notre histoire commune , nos valeur et notre avenir partag é s . I will give hon . member a translation if they need one . as this be a debate in the name of his Majesty ' s opposition , it be only right that I share some personal reflection on the record of the Conservative party when it be in government . I be feel generous , Madam Deputy Speaker : I be sure the House will be pleased to know that this will be a brief speech . but I be also feel generous because I want to begin with three simple and constructive suggestion for the conservative party on its future approach to the European Union . first , a good place to start would be by accept that the Brexit deal sign in 2020 have do substantial damage to our economy . fundamentally , it be a deal that put up barrier to trade . as the Office for Budget Responsibility conclude , the UK economy will be 4 % small than previously expect . that mean the country be on course to be £ 100 billion poor than it otherwise would have be . it be not the first time that the 4 % figure have be reference . be the hon . Gentleman aware that it be base on the assumption that UK - EU trade would fall and there would therefore be a hit to our productivity ? in fact , EU - UK trade have rise since Brexit , so the whole basis of that assumption be wrong . will he please acknowledge that ? it be curious , be it not ? I have see Conservative Front Benchers talk up the OBR when it be convenient , but in this case , when they do not agree with it , they decry it and say we must not listen to it . step one : it be time to accept that it be a deal that make the country poorer and it must be look at again . my second tip would be to apologise to the business community . he be no long a Member of this House , so perhaps it be time to fully disown the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip . as well as say sorry for his language towards the business community , it might be time to say sorry to the 60 % of company that tell the british chamber of commerce that it have become hard for they to trade as a direct consequence of the deal that be sign . the highlight of the shadow Minister ' s speech be his reference to " Quantum Leap " . he talk fondly of it , but I think it be time to jump back into the present . my third piece of advice be , therefore , that the conservative party should listen to more podcast . I know for a fact that the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) and the former Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) listen to a certain weekly political podcast feature former Chancellor George Osborne . I know they listen to it , because I have hear the voice note they submit as question in recent week and month . it be an excellent podcast , but I fear that while conservative mp be tune in , they be not really listen . George Osborne could not be more clear : the European Union be our single big trading partner and if we be serious about grow the economy , it be time for a new and more ambitious deal . on this , he and his co - host Ed Balls be united , and they be absolutely right . I be a pro - european and an internationalist . in my short time in this place , I have already have the opportunity to speak at great length in other debate on why now be the time for a substantial reset in the relationship with our large trading partner . today , I will not revisit those argument at length . but we be less than a week away from the UK - EU summit and I be very hopeful that we will see a comprehensive deal that make progress on security , trade and a visa - base youth mobility scheme . this be not 2016 or 2020 . while the conservative party in Parliament may want to replay the old debate , public opinion in the country have move on . in an uncertain and volatile world , there be no more important relationship for the UK than the one with our close neighbour and big trading partner . People want to see progress . they want to see a deal that make a material difference to their life . I be confident that be exactly what this Labour Government will deliver , start with the summit next week . it be wonderful to hear from the acclaimed globalist from both the liberal Democrat Benches and the Labour Benches who can not wait to bring we back into the EU . for the record , I be oppose to do so not only because the british people vote the opposite way and we should honour the referendum , but because , as Labour Members seem to have forget , we actually negotiate a trade deal with Europe . what I be interested in be the evasive nature of what the Minister say from the Dispatch Box , which commit we to nothing other than reset our relationship with the EU . I would like reassurance on what that mean . what strategic partnership with the EU be he refer to ? what concession be he plan on make ? will some kind of new EU treaty renegotiation come out of this ? what kind of active or passive role be the UK planning on take at this summit ? none of that have be make clear . will the hon . Lady give way ? in a moment — I want to make some progress . while none of that have be make clear , we have hear from quite a lot of Back - Bench Labour MPs that we will have a wonderful new trade deal and a great new visa system for young people , which give I pause . either we be not be tell fully what be go to happen at this summit , or there be such anticipation for back - door EU realignment that the Labour party can not contain itself , and its member can not help but tell we what they be plan on do . my big concern in all this — forgive I for want reassurance from the Dispatch Box — be that the outcome of the summit might involve concession of jurisdiction to the European Court of Justice , or the application of any of the principle of supremacy of EU law . I would like a guarantee from the Minister , on the Floor of the House , that that will not be the case . there can be no question of the European Court of Justice be bring back via the back door through dynamic realignment with EU law . I want to hear reassurance from the Minister that nothing will be discuss or renegotiate at this summit that would tear apart all the work we do , through the withdrawal agreement and the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 , to ensure that our law have supremacy over EU law . that be the point . many of we vote for Brexit because we want to see our sovereignty and our border restore ; we want to see our law bring back under our sovereignty . we want to ensure that we honour the commitment that we make , with both the Retained EU Law Act and the withdrawal agreement , to move forward with the EU . I welcome trade deal all over the world ; I want we to be as successful as we can be . praise where praise be due : if the Labour party have achieve a trade deal , fine — I be happy to acknowledge that and to say " well do " . we should be try to get trade deal with any country that we can . the reason I be ask for assurance from the Dispatch Box be that I have see the Labour party change its view on so many thing : on Brexit , on Trump , on scrap winter fuel payment , on energy bill — on national insurance ! and on national insurance . forgive I for need reassurance from the Dispatch Box that the Minister will not come back with some sort of 1984 doublespeak and expect we to enjoy that . my hon . friend ' s scepticism be well found , because many on the Government Benches — I do not say all — could barely sustain the result of the referendum and regard it with outrage . the people have speak and contradict the long - stand prejudice of the liberal bourgeoisie . that be why they try to block Brexit — indeed , the Prime Minister try to block it 48 time . my hon . friend be right , therefore , to be sceptical about Labour . my right hon . friend make an excellent point . we need to protect our Brexit freedom and make sure that we hold the Labour party to account . we hear a lot from the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) about all the wonderful thing he have plan for our free trade deal . however , I be concerned that we be go to rewrite history ; that we be go to ignore the british people again and allow for dynamic back - door realignment with the EU without give Parliament or the british people a say . will the hon . Lady give way ? the hon . Gentleman have a long time to speak , but I will give way once . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . I take a third of the time that her colleague , the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , take for his speech . be she genuinely suggest that we should tell this House right now what we will be negotiate in Brussels next week — that we should give away the full detail of our strategy ? perhaps that be the attitude that the Conservative Government take when they be negotiate the trade deal with Australia ; the conservative former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs say that it be a poor deal that let our farmer down . give her approach , no wonder that happen . the hon . Gentleman should allow we to fulfil the deal to which we be committed . we have put in place a trade deal and the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 . unless there be new negotiation to be have , what exactly be the purpose of the summit ? I be go to end my speech , but the hon . Gentleman have inspire I to continue . the Government ' s amendment relate to NATO , but NATO have nothing to do with the EU ; it be a completely separate entity . talk of dynamic realignment on defence come about after we leave the EU . ensure an ever close Union , through military , policing and social policy , have always be part of the plan of the European Union . that be welcome to internationalist , Liberal Democrats and Labour Members . I be sure that they would all love to have another way of bind we to the EU . NATO be separate ; it have one document that have be agree in the post - war period — will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not . NATO give we an alignment on military matter that need to be protect and foster . a Liberal Democrat Member mention our technical and military capability . that be not the issue ; the issue be : who bear the cost of our military capacity , which we deploy in defence of Europe and the free world ? NATO be create post war , during the cold war , when we need that strategic protection in Europe . that still hold true . why would we disrupt that , and muddy the water with this motion , which bring in NATO , which be separate from the EU ? why would we talk about something relate to the military in a debate on EU jurisdiction ? rise — I will finish and allow other to speak . I want to hear from colleague from across the House , because this be a very interesting debate . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your time . I will really enjoy hear from the Minister when they return from the summit on what exactly they have in mind for we and the EU . I be delighted to contribute to the debate . I be really pleased to hear the Minister say from the Dispatch Box that , at the EU summit , we will focus on safety , security and growth . and , boy , don ' t we need growth , after 14 year of chaos and disaster from the conservative party . since leave the EU in 2020 , business in Monmouthshire and across the UK have face the many barrier that result from the Tories ' botch Brexit deal . I must declare an interest : I be a big fan of the EU . no , that do not mean that I want to rejoin the EU , contrary to what the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) say . we need a well trading deal for our farmer , and for business in Monmouthshire . I be lucky enough , when I be at Middlesex Polytechnic many year ago , to take part in the Erasmus scheme . I go to Europe for two year ; I study in France . I learn French and do my final in French . that cultural exchange — that ability to go to another country — be so important for our future , and for our young people . that be even before I meet my Catalan husband , so now I have lot of family in Barcelona . it be so important to have close tie with the European Union . as a member of the UK - EU Parliamentary Partnership Assembly , I be delighted that we be receive with open arm in Brussels early this year . our trading relation with our near and large partner be too important to be take over by playground politic from the conservative party . I be so pleased that the new Labour Government be seek a more co - operative and mature relationship with the EU . as one MEP say , " thank goodness the grown - up be back in charge " . Wales have a unique relationship with the EU , especially regard our world famous , delicious and well - taste Welsh lamb . farmer and National Farmers Union Cymru have tell I that we need a new SPS deal . in 2023 alone , Wales export £ 600 million of food and drink to the EU , and a large proportion of that be red meat , but UK export to the EU overall be down 19 % in 2023 . on the subject of lamb , will my hon . friend reflect on the fact — I ask this of the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) — that the previous Government negotiate a trade deal with Australia that a former Conservative Environment Secretary describe as a disaster for our farmer , not least those farming lamb ? absolutely , I remember that well . the reduction in export be mainly due to the increase in paperwork , form - filling , and check and barrier to trade . some company have simply give up because they have have such a difficult time deal with the red tape . company have also have to put up price , which have impact consumer . for farmer , business and consumer , we need a strong , beneficial SPS agreement . I be so pleased that the Minister be work hard on this . our government ' s no . 1 priority be economic growth , and that would be support by grow co - operation with the EU . recently , I meet people from business in my constituency that export to the EU for a proper discussion about what Brexit have mean for they . sadly , I be unsurprise by what they have to say . I have already mention the increase in admin , which have hit their productivity ; they be do more work for less reward . requirement for product information and documentation be create a time - consume and costly burden . once the paperwork be all do , there be another set of challenge . one person I meet say that delay at Calais be borderline unmanageable . that be especially impact the small and medium - sized enterprise of Monmouthshire . one person I speak to at the roundtable say : " the big issue currently be that inspection at Calais for our product be very slow and at the same time we be restrict in term of time spend at the port due to dangerous good that be include in the load . this be a balance that be barely manageable for we . " a person from another company say : " what a disaster Brexit be for the import / export business : for my company , although through the agreement we be now back to ' zero tariff ' , the net result be simply a huge increase in admin and transport cost , for which ultimately the consumer pay . " finally , a person say : " exhibit in the EU be much more complex and require great admin " . they give this example : if a business take as much as a screwdriver to an exhibition in the EU , it must fill in a form for that screwdriver , even though it be to be use only to put up an exhibition stand . they say that every single piece of equipment must be count in and count out . three overall strand emerge from my roundtable : we must remove trade barrier ; we must have dynamic alignment of standard ; and business in my constituency would like a return to some kind of youth exchange scheme , like the one I benefit from . trade be one of the most pressing issue at hand as we seek to rebuild our relationship at the summit next week . remove barrier to export will be essential for farmer , business and consumer in Monmouthshire as the Government pursue their vital mission of economic growth . I will start with a few word about the context of the debate . clearly , the accusation — as though it be a negative — be that the campaign for Brexit have a sort of nostalgic , backward - look spirit , and that those of we who support it do so in that spirit . there be something in that , because we be talk about restore british sovereignty ; there be a sense that something good have be lose and need to be bring back . all good revolution be in a sense backward - look ; the bad revolution be the progressive one , while good revolution restore what be lose . that be what Brexit be about . nevertheless , despite that point , which I do concede , fundamentally the case for Brexit be forward - look . it be about put this country in the good possible position to meet the challenge of the 21st century . this century demand agility , and the independence that sovereignty can allow . obviously , there must be co - operation and close work in partnership — Britain have always be an outward - look country — but nimbleness and agility will be need in the highly contested new world that we be in . that be what Brexit be about , and on a number of hugely significant occasion since Brexit , we have already see why our independence be so necessary . we see it in our covid response , and in the context of Ukraine and our defence policy , and we see it now in our trade . indeed , we have do since Brexit . we have see it in the UK ' s negotiation with the US , which we can compare with those undertake by the EU in recent month . on trade , as I say in an intervention , the challenge be often make that Brexit have harm our gdp because it bring about a loss in productivity . the reverse be true . trade with the EU have grow since Brexit , and it be not the case that we have suffer detriment because of that . trade be grow between the UK and the whole world , include the EU , but it be grow more with non - EU country , which make the point about why it be so necessary to reclaim sovereignty over our trade policy . I echo the concern raise by conservative colleague about what be be plan for next week , in term of dynamic alignment on trade , and I call on the Minister to rule out a back - door alignment arrangement with the EU . we have see worry hint of that . I look forward to his response . the case for Brexit be not primarily about trade . of course , that be a very important matter , but let we acknowledge , as I think we all do , that really people be vote to take back control of our border and our law . those two vital issue remain contested because this Government never believe in Brexit and do not understand the call of the people for independence and sovereignty in those two key respect . on border and immigration , I recognise the case for a youth mobility scheme . in principle , the abstract case for a reciprocal arrangement in which young people can spend a few month or a year work in another country be a good thing . the hon . member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) say that it be a nice thing to do . nevertheless , we see the value of such scheme only when there be a reciprocal arrangement and comparable number be come and go . the same argument apply to the indian trade deal and its reciprocal arrangement on national insurance . the fact be , many more people will take advantage of the so - call reciprocal arrangement by come to the UK than will go either to India or to the EU , so we would not have a level playing field . as with free movement , this youth scheme would be another way for many more people to come to this country , undercut british worker and continue the stagnation of wage that we have suffer from for so many decade . on law and take back control , I be concern about the threat of European Court of Justice oversight of the trade arrangement , and potentially of the new veterinary agreement and deal on meat and dairy . I very much hope that the Minister will definitively rule out any extension of ECJ oversight . the fact be — we see this in the Government ' s rather mealy - mouthed amendment to the motion — that Labour do not believe in Brexit . I really honour the Green party for its amendment , because in that we hear the true voice of the pro - european movement . it be almost a parody . it suggest that free movement and rejoin the EU be what the country need and would be in the national interest . indeed , it suggest that it would be a way to counter the hard right . have Green Members see what be go on in Europe ? the extension of the principle of ever close union , deep alignment and concentration of power at the european level be stoke the far right across Europe . the fundamental reason why the conservative party have always be so successful , historically , be that we have speak for those people who otherwise would be outraged . reform have be do well — by the way , I do not associate reform with the far right — because it speak for those outraged member of the public , many of whom use to vote for we and for the Labour party , who feel that their Parliament have let they down and politic have leave they behind . that have happen across Europe in a much more dangerous way , so if we be serious about counter the danger of the right , we should be absolutely clear about there be no suggestion of any return to the EU . let I finish on Reform . its member be not here any more , but there we go . they have a rather amusing amendment to the motion , which simply replace the word " conservative party " with the word " reform " . they be piggyback somewhat on our good work , in a desperate search to be relevant and to catch up with the conservative party , which be lead the way on this agenda . it be a bit of a problem , and two thing occur to I : first , that they can not even write an amendment of their own and they have to rely on we — order . the hon . Member might reflect on the fact that the amendment to which he refer be not even select , so he should not even be speak to it . I will therefore end just by say that the amendment table by Reform , which I appreciate be not select , demonstrate that we be on the same page and I deeply regret their opposition to what we be try to do . reform member be not here , so I will answer that point . they be not on the same page as we because their amendment , which be not a proper one , do not fit on the same page of the Order Paper ! order . the right hon . Gentleman be a very experienced parliamentarian and know that he should be address the Chair , not face the back of the Chamber . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker — that be a lapse on my part . all sort of thing go wrong when we mention Reform , so we have good leave that topic . I pay tribute to the Conservative Front - Bench Members , who have put forward an important and principled statement of the declaration that our party will stand for . we support the decision of the british people to leave the European Union , repeat in multiple general election . it be a great shame that we can not hear the Labour party make the same pledge . I be try to understand if , at some point , we will hear anything from the conservative party about what its member think could be improve in the Brexit agreement that have be so bad for their party . we be talk about get a well Brexit agreement than the one they negotiate . be they say that what they do be perfect , or can it be improve on ? if it can , how ? everything else the hon . Gentleman have say have be negative . there be two thing . first , we could do well on Northern Ireland , but let we leave that whole topic for another day . secondly , the Brexit agreement that we negotiate be absolutely right , but the problem be the EU and the fact that it be a protectionist bloc . we decide to leave because we believe in sovereignty and leave a decline quarter of the world ' s economy . the problem be the trade barrier that the EU erect unnecessarily and which be harmful to both party . I will leave it there . may I start with a warning to my colleague elect in 2024 ? many of we who be here between 2017 and 2019 have be deeply trigger by this debate , which have rerun and rehash the debate of old . we have the scar on all our back . I warn hon . member : do not go down that rabbit hole . no good can come of it . [ interruption . ] I wager that the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) be laugh because he know how much — will the hon . Lady give way ? well , of course I have to give way to my constituency neighbour . I be grateful to my neighbour for give way . if she want to deliberately not go down that rabbit hole , she should be talk to the Government Front Benchers . and lo , Bugs Bunny do appear . we have also hear from the man I start argue with 33 year ago as a young campaigner about the merit or otherwise of work with Europe . it appear that the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) be on the other bus in the debate about Brexit . that be exactly it : our constituent , who might listen to this , would be horrify to see we go backwards again , act as if the last 10 year have not happen and there be no evidence about what Brexit mean . will the hon . Lady give way ? I do not want to try your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker . you have have to sit through many a lengthy speech . rise — oh , go on — I will give way . the hon . Gentleman be like this when I be 15 , too . who be it that be try to take we back to the past ? it be the Government . Brexit be give this country its new future and the Government be try to turn the clock back . that be what be wrong . I hate to warn the hon . Gentleman , but I have a horrible feeling that if he be to compare the speech he make today with many of those he make between 2017 and 2019 , he might find that he would lose " just a Minute " on the ground of repetition . that be go backwards . this country deserve well . let I start with a clear statement of intent . Brexit have happen ; we have leave . I be not here to prosecute the argument to rejoin . we do not have time for that . what we need be a salvage operation , because of the damage that have be do , especially in a world with so much uncertainty , where tariff be now part and parcel of the everyday conversation and the damage that be be do to our constituent . we can fight many thing in life , but geography really be not one of they , however hard some member on the conservative Benches try . we hear from the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) the continue myth that somehow the isolation to our status that Brexit have bring would bring we strength . the last 10 year — indeed , the last six month — have show how clearly that be not the case . in fact , we be uniquely isolate and at risk as a nation . that be why what this Government be do be absolutely right . they be get on with sign trade deal , try to sort out the damage that have be do and , indeed , look for that hat - trick . I have to say to Conservative Members that there be no conspiracy here . those of we who be here in 2019 remember exactly the detail of that deal and the fact that a five - year review process be write into it . what we be go to see next Monday be not some secret negotiation ; it be part of the trade and co - operation process — [ interruption . ] I hear Conservative Members chuntering . hang on , I can see their tin foil hat ! I beg they to look at the detail of the agreement , which say clearly that there would be a renegotiation point , where we would review whether or not it be work . I be sorry that the shadow Minister be not in his place . he try to claim affinity with Sam Beckett but frankly I suspect he be go to be more like Jim Trott from " the Vicar of Dibley " . he will say , " no , no , no , no , no , no , no " , and then have to say yes . the summit be not the end . it be the start of the process of review the trade and co - operation agreement , and look at what be in the good interest of this country . let I be clear : I be absolutely committed to the idea that there should be parliamentary scrutiny . my colleague on the Front Bench will know that I have be concern that the European Scrutiny Committee be delete , because I think we should be able to discuss these matter . however , I think there probably ought to be a summit first in order for we to have something to discuss . I hope that will account for I put in an advert for the Backbench Business debate that the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) and I be go to have after the summit on 22 May , so that we parliamentarian may properly examine what come out of it . sadly , he be not in his place , which be a shame because I know how strongly he feel about these thing , and I be sure he would want to talk about the benefit of Brexit and other mythical creature . the summit be the starting gun . it be not the final deal , and it be really important to look at it in that way . this be the test for the motion today . be the opposition really tell we that the trade and co - operation agreement be perfection ? be there absolutely nothing in that agreement that they would not wish to amend , revise or refine ? be there absolutely nothing in what it have deliver in the last five year that they be trouble by ? for example , there be 1 . 8 million few job in our economy because of the Tory hard Brexit , and the academic who have study this recognise that that figure will rise to 3 million by 2035 . trade be down 27 % with the European Union — a bloc that we do five time more trade with than we do with America . over 16 , 000 business have give up trading with Europe all together , because the truth about Brexit be that it be just paperwork — ream and ream of it — and small business in this country have sadly have to up stick . I declare an interest as the chair of the Labour Movement for Europe . I be not stand here argue to rejoin , but I be a red against red tape and what I see be the amount of paperwork — [ interruption . ] I be love the fact that Conservative Members be chuntere from a sedentary position , as if this be some sort of revelation . perhaps they can borrow some tin foil from their fellow member and talk about a conspiracy . they would do well to reflect on the impact of the border trading operating model — an entirely self - inflict wound by the previous Government on british farmer and british food supply chain that push up inflation , because charge for pallet of food come into the country create more and more paperwork . unless conservative member be genuinely tell we that they think " chef ' s kiss " for the trade and co - operation agreement , it be right for we to look at whether there be thing we can do to deal with the problem it have create for our constituent — include the £ 6 . 95 billion of additional cost to household — and to account for some of the myth that have be create . again , the hon . member for East Wiltshire — he will accuse I of be obsess , but let we look at what he talk about — say that somehow be out of the European Union make our response to covid well . well , he might want to talk to the UK covid inquiry , which find that it be the reverse . it find that our failure to prepare be increase by the fact that we be deal with a no - deal Brexit ; it harm our covid response . he might even want to reflect on the word of the UK medicine regulator , which say we could have use the emergency process to bring forward our own vaccine . I be sure that be what he be talk about . the hon . Member also talk about Ukraine . he might want to reflect , as he think about the summit on Monday , on how hard it be for we to make the case about the importance of stand with Ukraine from outside of the room , and that those who be less convinced who be part of the European Union would have hear our message more clearly if we be inside the room , particularly when it come to gas import . we champion Ukraine , but we have to shout from outside rather than be part of the conversation from the start . this summit need a strong agenda , and that be exactly what this Government be talk about . it be an agenda focus on fix the problem that this trade and co - operation agreement have create . that be what the public want — they agree with we . they do not want we to spend five to 10 year on treaty renegotiation and the possibility of rejoin ; they want we to salvage this country from the damage that Brexit have do . two third of the country say that Brexit be bad for the cost of living , and 65 % say that it have have a negative impact on the economy . opposition Members might want to reflect on the fact that that be nearly twice the number of people who think that immigration be bad for our economy . the british public be not daft ; they be wise about what need to happen next . they understand the value of a defence deal . they understand that , in a world with Putin at our doorstep , with the challenge we face and the uncertainty in other part of the world , it be absolutely right and proper , and will complement NATO , to work more closely with our european counterpart , to increase investment in the UK defence industry and to collaborate on crime . those of we who use to have constituent whose need be serve by the EU arrest warrant know the damage that the previous Government ' s deal have do . those of we who want to see we step up the way we collaborate on international aid know that we need to get round the table with our european counterpart . the good way to tackle those who might be stick on a boat , flee persecution , be to try to stop the conflict at the source . that be what collaborate on international aid with Europe could offer . the public understand the value of an SPS deal , which my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) mention , and the value of the Pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention , which deal with the paperwork about rule of origin . thank to the Tory hard Brexit , those rule mean that every time a tomato be bring into this country to make a pizza in the Wirral , extra paperwork come with it . the public would want we to look at the vat rule , because small business be now struggle with 27 different vat regime . they would also want we to sort out the carbon border adjustment mechanism ; that be how we save british steel , which will be affect if there be a divergence . we need to look at how the emission trading scheme can be link , and we can save british business £ 800 million in charge . the public want we to look at mutual conformity assessment to try to reduce duplication . they want common sense on regulation . the previous Government try to bring in separate regulatory regime and , understandably , british business say , " that be twice the cost . " british business want to be able to sell to their neighbour ; they do not want extra piece of paperwork . the previous Government try to make we have separate regulation on airline safety — as if an aeroplane take off in London would need to follow a different set of regime if it land in Berlin . that be bonker . understandably , we walk back from it , and we should not go back to those kind of argument just because those on the conservative Benches have a blindness when it come to Europe . this Government have get their head on . they be look at what they can do to help the chemical industry and supply chain , and of course it be look at what a deal on youth mobility might look like . this be a summit ; it be about have the conversation , look at the detail and look at how we can support apprenticeship through youth mobility . clearly , youth mobility be not freedom of movement , otherwise I would have hear complaint from Opposition Members about the fact that we have freedom of movement deal with Canada , Australia , New Zealand and Uruguay — [ interruption . ] I can see a Conservative Member say , " yes , indeed . " I presume they be go to call for the abolition of freedom of movement from Canada , then ; that would be consistency . we could also do more to help our creative service and financial service , and , yes , to resolve some of the tension in Northern Ireland . many of we feel deeply that the people of Northern Ireland have suffer the most as a result of the Tory hard Brexit . yes , we could do a deal on fishing . we could acknowledge the fact that our fishery industry feel sell out by the previous Government by support they to be sustainable . all those be issue that we can return to in that Back - Bench debate , but we can not do that if we do not have the summit . we can not walk into the summit say , " no , no , no . " we need to walk in say , " what give ? what be the opportunity here ? how can we solve some of these challenge ? " many , many year ago , one of my next - door constituency neighbour be Winston Churchill . we on the Labour Benches have become the defender of his vision of end conflict in Europe . conservative Members spend all their time fight with each other and fight a ghost . we need to talk about the future . we need to get away from the fantasy that somehow Brexit will deliver and start get back to the cost of live crisis in our community and how we can help people . rise — I be go to sit down , I promise , but I can not resist . I give way . the hon . Lady mention Churchill , so I can not let she sit down yet . she talk about conflict within the conservative party . Winston Churchill have a few battle in his own party , as she might recall — he be not averse to that . sometimes one have to stand up for what be right , which be what Conservative Brexiteers do . do she really think that Winston Churchill would have support the EU in its current form ? do she really think that he would have support what the ECHR have become ? how can she possibly claim Winston Churchill for the politic that she stand for ? go on ! I think Winston Churchill would turn in his grave if he see what the Conservative party and its libertarian wing have become , and how the proud defence of our ability to participate in international organisation , and to speak up for freedom , for share interest and for the national interest , have be diminish as a result of the previous Government ' s approach to Brexit , as well as that of conservative Members today . I will draw my remark to a close . the world be change . we be live in a world in which trade , security , co - operation and climate issue move at pace . many of we could not have predict — remember , it have be only 120 day since President Trump be elect — what would happen next . never more have we need good relationship with our neighbour . Monday be about be good neighbour . the world might be change , but we have the same old conservative party , on the same page as Reform — that be all they seem to care about . we care about the british interest . I look forward to hear what come out of the summit , and I look forward to the Back - Bench debate to discuss it . that really be take back control . it be good to contribute to the debate . on the matter of Churchill , I be of course one of his successor in Dundee , where he be defeat by the only prohibitionist ever elect . it be after his defeat that he go on to make his speech about Europe , after he have join the conservative party . I suspect that I will in a moment slip into the same level of exasperation express by the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) — I hope that she do not mind my saying that we agree on so much — but before I do , let I thank the conservative party for bring this motion . I have to say , I salute their — how should one put it — courage in secure the debate . nobody be say that the Conservatives ' Brexit have be a success . in that context , I feel that they be lead with their chin today . nobody be argue that it be something that have go well . nobody be argue that it have become a triumph . rather , we be debate and discuss today how to tackle a problem that have be well set out by the Government . I be sorry to say that Brexit continue to cast a spell over the political class at Westminster . we have hear a rerun of some of the argument and some of the falsehood about the European Union , but let we talk about the evidence — I will be brief , as it have be well cover . there be the 4 % drop in GDP that the Treasury have outline , and the 15 % drop in trade that be part of the Budget document . the UK have now lose more than it ever contribute financially , with absolutely nothing in return . there be the loss of job , the loss of regional structural fund that be never replace despite the promise , the loss of opportunity for sme and , critically , the loss of opportunity for our young people . I can remember when the Brexiteers tell we that lot of country would follow the UK out the door . nobody have follow the UK , and I wonder why . it lean into the sense of british exceptionalism that we hear time and again . the UK have be leave impoverished as a direct consequence of those argument . I have hear the warm word from Labour Members about want to be close to Europe , but they be fundamentally grab hold of a hard Tory Brexit . I fail to see why a Labour Government do not stand up for Europe more . rather than try to imitate fail conservative policy and fail reform policy — let we not forget that Reform have a track record , and it be not a good one — Labour should take they on , on that track record . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? before I move on to the Treasury and some of the right hon . Gentleman ' s point , I will give way to he . the hon . Gentleman be point to an empty Bench when he talk about Reform , by the way , because its member have not turn up . on the structural fund , I know the hon . Gentleman would not want in any way to say something misleading . after Brexit , my constituency attract Government funding of something like £ 60 million or £ 70 million for road , a new leisure centre and the regeneration of our town centre . in the last year we be in the EU , do he know that it cost we £ 17 billion to be a member ? what sort of price be that ? seventeen billion be less than half the amount lose from the public finance . those be not my figure , but the Labour Mayor of London ' s figure . that be money lose without get anything back in return , and the Scottish Government have lose £ 300 million in money that have not come from regional structural fund . let I turn to devolution and sovereignty . the EU be a Union fit for the 21st century . the UK be barely a Union fit for the 18th century , because it have not be modernise since . we have a Brexit deal that rip up the devolution settlement , which Scottish Labour and other speak out against but which have now be impose on the devolved administration in a way that the EU could never do to its member state . I remind member that not one of the 27 independent , sovereign member state of the EU consider themselves any less independent or sovereign for be a member of the European Union — not one of they . just one do , and it be this british nationalist exceptionalism that be so utterly damaging to everybody in the UK . the most sovereign country in the world be North Korea , because we give up a tiny bit of sovereignty with deal . all these other state that see themselves as sovereign — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) talk of Ukraine . Ukraine want to join the EU . he talk of democracy . the democrat in Georgia and Moldova drape themselves in european flag because they see that as the future of the rule of law , democracy and great wealth for their country . every country that have join the EU get well off . the one country that leave get bad off , and its citizen have few right . we all have to recognise that the EU be a security actor , and a majority of european state now see the EU and NATO as the twin pillar of security . those sovereign state see that . while I welcome the UK Government ' s steadfast support for Ukraine — both the current and previous Administrations — we be not realistic about the challenge we face . Putin ' s Russia fear the EU . that be why we see the initial war in Ukraine in 2014 , because of the EU accession agreement . we know that , and everyone else get it except those in the United Kingdom . the EU provide food security and energy security for its member , and sit outside leave we more isolated and less secure . why be the UK so exceptional ? what make the UK so special ? how be it that everybody else have get it wrong , but the UK have somehow get it right ? it be a piece of nonsense that be damage we all . turn to young people , I be get tired of hear Labour talk about youth mobility scheme . I would like the Minister to tell I whether a youth mobility scheme will be put in place , and then say how it will compare with the free movement we all enjoy when we be in the EU . we be leave young generation with few right and opportunity than we ourselves enjoy , and that be a failure of our political generation — an abject failure . I be sorry to say that the Prime Minister ' s rhetoric yesterday feed into that . that he be call out by Lord Dubs , a Labour Member of the House of Lords , and yet praise by the leader of Alternative for Germany should surely give Labour member some cause for reflection — some cause to reflect on how other be see they right now . I would expect such rhetoric from Reform and other , but I do not expect it from the Labour party and I say to Labour Members , " I ' m sorry , I oppose you sometimes and you stand against I , but I do not expect that from the Labour party . " the bad part of this be that we be get it from a Labour Government who do not really believe in what they be do . I know that from work with they over the year . they do not believe in the damage this be do . what be damage we in politic right now be that people be stand up for thing they do not really believe in . they do not say what they believe in . they might say , " I believe in leave the European Union " — ( interruption . ) the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) talk about Parliament — I just hear that — in a Parliament where we do not have an idea of british sovereignty . the definition of scottish sovereignty — I would encourage he to read MacCormick v . Lord Advocate — be different from the idea of english sovereignty , because the supremacy of Parliament do not exist . I think it be fair to say that in the year I have be here generally most people have know what I believe in , but be the reason the hon . Gentleman be so incredibly angry this afternoon because , from his point of view , he lose not only one referendum , but two : on scottish independence and then on the European Union ? I will concede the point . I know what the right hon . Gentleman believe in . I be not surprised that he want to take I on not on the substance of what I say but rather on some of the semantic , because as the Secretary of State for Scotland say , a democracy cease to be a democracy when it cease to have the ability to change its mind . my appeal would be this : yes , I believe in independence ; I believe that the European Union provide a model that the UK Union do not . that be something I believe in , and some member disagree with I and I respect they for that , and I know that Scottish Labour Members disagree with I on that , and I respect they for that as well . what I struggle with be that we know this be a bad deal with Europe . we know that stay outside the custom union and the single market be make we poorer every day . I would encourage member to stand up and put the case of what they believe in , because that be the way to return respect back into politic — not repeat what have be say in the past , but truly look to the future . I will keep my remark fairly brief , and we have be treat to a lot of good , well - inform speech . on respect and speak up for what we believe in , it be important to remember the poison that be bring into the body politic before I enter this place . on the local election night I be particularly concerned in my constituency about the return of a Reform councillor whose Facebook page have be describe by Hope not hate as " a slew of anti - muslim content . " that really worry I . it worry a lot of my constituent , and it worry a lot of people across the country . I be very disappointed with reform and question some of its vetting process . to return to the matter in hand , I meet every week with business in my constituency — with farmer , small business , business that export and those that want to export but do not feel they have the facility or support in place to do so . there be failure in the Brexit deal , and I know that there be many sober and mature member on the other side of the House who recognise those shortcoming , and this summit be an opportunity to recognise that we live in a world that be change every single day , where the demand of yesterday be not the same as the demand of tomorrow . we have a Government who be look to the mature , reasonable and responsible thing to do , which be to improve the day to day life of our constituent , which be what we be send here to do . I speak to farmer who suffer from be catch up in red tape when try to export or small business who do not have access to the " Rolls - Royce " access programme that large business do to go abroad , and that be one of the major failing of the previous Government ' s trade policy . I hope that in wind up the Minister will address how we can get small business export across the world as part of the slew of trade deal that we have just sign . it be really important that we do not go into conspiracy - theory bait on backslide on the EU and what that mean . I do not particularly care about chase view from account amplify by Elon Musk : I care about get good result , job and outcome for my constituent . for far too long , my constituency be deny a voice because it be a safe conservative seat . it be a seat where member would go up every six week and not really engage with the solid issue . we have a school in my constituency that be build eight - and - a - half year ago that be already structurally unsound . that be a pretty damn failure of the Conservatives . we need to ensure that the system we have inherit work properly . I urge the Minister and the Government to get to the negotiating table , work through the kink in the deal , work out what be go wrong and hold business back , and approach the issue with a mature , honest and genuine discussion on how we can improve thing . as it say on my party membership card , we achieve more by our common endeavour ; ultimately , we need that approach . we need an internationalist approach root in pragmatism that do not fall victim to some of the appalling cynicism and rather brutal mischaracterisation that we often see from Opposition Members . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to contribute to this important debate on the forthcoming UK - EU summit next Monday . as someone who have , I hope the House will concede , follow these matter reasonably closely for a number of year , I will focus on three broad area . I will say something about the summit itself , make some point about the very worrying suggestion that we be about to waive a large part of our fishing right , and raise my concern and those of many other about the potential for so - call dynamic alignment by which the United Kingdom effectively would become a passive rule taker , despite vote peacefully and democratically to leave the European Union in the first place . before I do that , I pay a personal tribute to Sir Roy Stone , who have tragically pass away . he be a constituent of mine and live just a few minute away from I . I once inadvertently canvass he some year ago during the local election . as a highly professional public servant , he be completely inscrutable about his voting intention . I subsequently work with he closely for two year in the coalition Whips Office between 2010 and 2012 . he be always very patient , especially with I . when I be the Vice - Chamberlain of the household , he always give well - inform and canny advice . he believe passionately in the institution of Parliament and the principle of representative democracy , which he serve so well . our thought and prayer be with his widow , Dawn , and her family . may he rest in peace and always be warmly remember . a crucial summit will take place between the leader of the UK and the EU in London next month . I recall be tell repeatedly during the referendum campaign that if we leave the EU , we would be isolate and friendless . all the meeting that have take place in London recently , include one with virtually every EU leader at Lancaster House regard the so - call coalition of the willing , show how absolutely ludicrous that assertion be . however , accord to multiple medium report , it seem as if this summit could involve some kind of defence pact between ourselves in the UK and the European Union . as I have Front - Bench responsibility for defence , I shall not dwell at length on those matter , but hopefully we will have a lot more to say on they next week once the detail of any such agreement have be make public and , crucially , we have have an opportunity to read the small print . nevertheless , I be sure that the Government ' s tactic will be to try to talk almost exclusively about defence as a form of camouflage to mask likely concession both on our fishing right and , potentially , relate to our food . when the british people vote democratically to leave the European Union some nine year ago , they do so in order to decide their destiny for themselves . it would be completely against the spirit of the referendum , under the guise of some kind of reset with the EU , to surrender that principle next week . moreover , after the absolute chaos of the Labour Government ' s propose Chagos deal , the spanish Foreign Minister assert only yesterday that the UK should make concession over the sovereignty of Gibraltar as part of our reset at the summit . this be despite the fact that the Gibraltarians themselves vote by a majority of 99 % to maintain the current position in their own referendum on the subject , a margin so emphatic that even the SNP would have to accept it . on fishing , in early 2020 during Boris Johnson ' s premiership , the United Kingdom agree what be know as the trade and co - operation agreement between the UK and the EU . while there have be much recent talk of trade deal , include with India and now the US , the TCA be in effect a major , comprehensive trade deal with the EU , negotiate in the context of have leave the European Union . for the benefit of the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , who be no long in his place , that agreement be 1 , 245 page long — I know , because I read it . in essence , the TCA guarantee virtually tariff - free trade between the UK and the EU . moreover , the fact that we have leave the EU , include the custom union , mean that we be able to negotiate unilateral trade deal of our own around the world . will the right hon . member give way ? in a moment . while we be in the custom union , it be possible to negotiate those agreement only collectively via the auspex of the EU . that be a fundamental difference . it be important to note that by use this critical Brexit freedom , we have be able to negotiate almost 80 independent trade deal with nation around the world since we leave the EU , include important Commonwealth partner such as Australia , New Zealand , and now India . we have also join the trans - Pacific partnership , which materially improve our access to asian market worth trillion of dollar . moreover — will the right hon . member give way ? if the hon . Lady will let I finish this point , I promise I will do so , but I want to enjoy this bit . we now have the delightful visage of our ambassador to the United States , one Lord Mandelson , have to acknowledge through metaphorically grit tooth that we have be able to negotiate a trade deal with the United States — albeit one that be limit in scope — only because we leave his beloved European Union . I think our Peter be struggle with that . I will give way to the hon . Lady , who have be patient . if those trade deal be such sunlit upland and such wonderful deal , can the right hon . member explain to I why our seafood export to the EU plummet by 80 % since the Brexit deal ? why do that happen on his watch , if that deal be so good ? the hon . Lady pre - empt I . if she will give I a moment , I will get to fish very shortly . the tca — part 2 , head 5 — contain transition arrangement relate to fishing . in essence , the TCA allow for a period of over five year during which there would be temporary arrangement on access to UK water by EU fishing fleet . after that , under international maritime arrangement , the United Kingdom would become solely responsible for its own territorial water , out to 200 nautical mile in some place . as this transition period be now approach its expiration in 2026 , the EU be push very hard to maintain its access to our fishing water and — it would seem — even to expand its access in certain case , be we naive enough to give in . it would be a complete betrayal of our fisherman if the United Kingdom Labour Government be now to grant major concession to the EU in what will become indisputably our own sovereign water once again come 2026 . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? in a second — the bourgeoisie will have to wait . while our sovereign right be enshrine in both the TCA itself and wide maritime law , we have yet to see the final detail of whatever faustian pact the Government have agree with the EU on fishing . however , our fisherman and those of we on the Opposition Benches — although not Reform Members , who be not here — will be watch the Government very closely , and will be highly alert to the prospect of a sell - out on fish . we then come to veterinary matter and SPS — and ultimately , therefore , food — which would involve the United Kingdom in a process know as dynamic alignment . in essence , this mean that if the EU be in any way to change or modify its rule in those area , we would in turn be compel to follow the EU , regardless of the wish of our own Parliament . in other word , we would become a " rule taker " in those area , even though we have leave the European Union . moreover , it seem that these arrangement would apply throughout the United Kingdom , and in the event of a dispute , that would be arbitrate by the European Court of Justice rather than the UK Supreme Court or even an international tribunal . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? in a moment . to have leave the EU but submit to become a passive rule taker would be entirely contrary to the spirit of the 2016 referendum . that be why , time and again today , no Minister will admit that the Government be go to do it next week . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? no . when Labour talk about a " reset " in its general election manifesto , there be absolutely no reference to rule take as part of any such accommodation . labour would therefore be give away our right , entirely without the consent of the british people . that must be fiercely resist and , if necessary , overturn . moreover , there be the prospect of additional concession over everything from so - call youth mobility scheme — a euphemism for a return to freedom of movement in another guise — to capitulation over net zero mechanism and , specifically , the EU ' s carbon border adjustment mechanism , or CBAM , which would make our remain industry even more internationally uncompetitive than the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) have achieve to date . as someone who sit here during the last Parliament — as the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) kindly mention — and witness , night after night and week after week , the then labour shadow Secretary of State for exit the European Union , now the Prime Minister , pull every procedural trick from the depth of Erskine May in order to try to keep the United Kingdom in the European Union at almost any price and despite the referendum , I be in no way surprise that his Government be now attempt this act of capitulation . our Prime Minister have always be a passionate Europhile ; in short , he remain a remainer in his heart of heart , and he always will . what the Labour Government be up to — and I say again that they will try to use a defence pact in order to hide it — be begin a process of gradually take we back towards and even back into the European Union , if they think they can get away with it . they will never risk another referendum , because in 2016 , almost up to the last minute , the poll be show that remain might win , but when it come to it , the british people have the temerity to vote to govern themselves , despite the good effort of the British Establishment and " Project Fear " . what they will do be try to take we back in very gradually , via a process of grandmother ' s footstep , or , to make another analogy , try to boil a frog slowly . if they get away with submission next week , despite their manifesto commitment , they will eventually try to take we back into the single market — although , no doubt , under some other name — and if they can get away with that , they will suggest that we might as well rejoin the custom union . they will put the argument to the british people that we be so far back into the bloom thing that we might as well go the whole hog and rejoin it entirely — all without a vote or the consent of the people of the United Kingdom , at any stage , whatsoever . I just want to draw something out . dynamic alignment be not a small thing ; it be huge , because it be rule take . can my right hon . friend imagine our engage in any other trade arrangement — with the United States or Australia , for instance , or the trans - Pacific partnership — and be in a position where we have to say , " we will accept your rule and your adjudication " ? it would be far well to do this via a process of mutual enforcement , of which my right hon . friend have always be a staunch advocate . when the Minister sum up the debate , we will ask he if he will rule out , very clearly , any prospect of dynamic alignment at the summit next week . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? in a moment . this be a yes or no question . perhaps the Minister , at that time — because he would not answer my right hon . friend ' s question yesterday — will give we an honest answer to an honest question . in fact , if he want to do it now I will give way to he . a stunning silence ! well , as he have not the gut to get up , I will give way to his Back Bencher . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his nomenclature , and I be most grateful to my Jacobin friend for take my intervention . I do not want he to finish without have the opportunity to answer the question that my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) put to he . export of UK seafood to the European Union have fall by 80 % since Brexit , and there have be lot of new check , and there be lot of new paperwork and bureaucracy . what do he put that down to ? export of seafood have collapse . do he put that down to Brexit , or to something else ? People have make market choice , but under the common fishery policy , we have the absurdity of so - call discard . our fisherman have to throw fish , many of which be already dead , back into the sea in order to comply with the absurdity of the CFP . hopefully , we will never return to that . this be something that I have look at quite closely . the reason for the collapse be that the United Kingdom be not in the internal market , so we do not give direct applicability and direct effect to EU SPS law . the EU procedure be to check every consignment of shellfish come into the EU to see if it comply with EU standard , even though the provision in EU law on clean river , clean beach and clean water all exist in the United Kingdom , and our provision be probably of a superior standard to those that apply in much of the EU . I defer to my hon . friend , who be clearly a subject matter expert . I will conclude , because other want a chance to speak . the Labour Government will go for dynamic alignment . they will sign we up as a passive rule - taker at the behest of the EU , despite the british people vote in 2016 to take back control of their law . I have absolutely no doubt that if the Labour Government get away with this surrender summit early next week , that be precisely what they will do . it be therefore very important that we alert the british people , and the medium that serve they , to exactly what Labour be up to , in an attempt to expose the situation and prevent it get any bad . in summary , we will not allow our obsessively Europhile Prime Minister — in this context , our " white flag " man — to surrender our right to govern ourselves . this surrender to the EU have absolutely no democratic mandate , and we will oppose it tooth and nail . if necessary , we will eventually overturn it . remember what the booklet in the referendum say : " this be your decision . the Government will implement what you decide . " the british people decide to take back control of their own law . it be not for Labour to give they away . this have be an interesting debate , but , to reflect on the unhappy nostalgia of my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , it be quite clear that some people be have trouble move on , as we need to . the summit be happen because of the process agree by the Conservative party when it be in government . this be not a surrender summit ; it be a summit for success for business and business people , and we can only achieve that if we move on in this debate . at one point , I think Bill Cash be go to stand up and contribute . we be not move forward as a Parliament , and think about the real priority of the british people and our future relationship with Europe , but other people be prepared to move on and want to do so . today , I be pleased to have the chance to meet representative of the Scottish Advisory Forum on Europe , know as SAFE , at an event that I have the pleasure of co - host with the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) . it be an excellent event that reflect all their great work in collaborate with their colleague and counterpart in Europe . they have be collaborate not just with government but with civil society , academia and a whole range of organisation , because that be in their interest . this be about grow the scottish economy and further the interest of the scottish people . I pay tribute to my good friend Dr Irene Oldfather , who , as chair of SAFE , have do so much to promote ongoing collaboration with colleague in Europe . she be a happy constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) and be do vital work . we should go into these negotiation in a spirit of collaboration , seek mutual benefit , in order to build a well relationship between the UK and our European Union colleague . I put on record my thank to Irene Oldfather . on a very hard issue — and we have see today that it be very difficult — she be do something extraordinarily constructive , and I think we can all learn from her work . I could not agree more . on the issue of learn , it be so important , good and welcome to hear that , ahead of this vital summit , the Minister for the constitution and European Union relation , my right hon . friend the Member for Torfaen ( Nick Thomas - Symonds ) , attend a meeting with SAFE in Edinburgh yesterday . I understand that it be hold at the Scotch Whisky Association , so I hope he enjoy an excellent afternoon . this be a good point at which to mention that our trade deal with India be secure £ 1 billion for the scottish whisky industry over the next five year , and 1 , 200 extra job . this fantastic deal be in no way frustrate by our pursue a well deal with the European Union . at that event yesterday , the Minister meet young people who look to our future in Europe , rather than seek to debate the battle of the past . they ask the Minister to find way to ensure that they have the opportunity to work and study in Europe . I hope he can think inventively about how that can be achieve within the policy framework that the Government have set out , because the previous Erasmus + scheme be important not only for the young people who participate , but for Scotland ' s economy . it be worth £ 340 million annually , deliver £ 7 in value for every £ 1 invest . economic growth be rightly the priority for this Government . if they change course in these negotiation in the way propose by the Opposition , that would not be put the national interest first . the Minister and his colleague should proceed with the vital work that they have take forward with their european counterpart ahead of the summit . that be the right thing to do for economic growth and in our national interest . the Government ' s approach , which be absolutely essential , recognise the EU ' s status as our big trading partner . it account for 41 % of our export and 51 % of our import . I be encourage to hear from the Minister that issue that be vital to growth in my constituency of Glenrothes and Mid Fife — include close co - operation on energy policy , which I hope may include increase co - operation with the North Seas Energy Co - operation — be the issue on the agenda next week . I hope that there will be measure that benefit small business in my constituency , particularly in the creative sector . rightly , at the election , our party commit to make it easy for musician to tour in Europe . that be vital for the future of our brilliant creative sector in Scotland , and in the UK , and I hope that we can make progress in this area . of course , we have to respect the decision of the Brexit referendum . however , while we should not simply repeat the debate on Brexit in this House , as we seem to , neither should we repeat the mistake of the previous Government , who fail to ensure that our new relationship with the European Union create the right environment for trade and co - operation in key area of policy . this Government have already make significant progress on reset the UK ' s relationship with the European Union in our national interest , and particularly in line with this Government ' s policy on economic growth . my hon . friend have cover a range of group — he mention farmer , business , young people and the creative sector — but be it not the truth that all these group be simply look for practical measure that the Government can take to improve their lot , and to improve our relationship with Europe ? that could involve cut red tape , unlock energy and deepen security co - operation , without be to the detriment of the previous agreement . I could not agree more . this will absolutely be in line with previous agreement . in our new relationship with Europe , we be do far well than the previous Government , who agree very poor deal , which result in economic decline ; we could have achieve more with a different approach . I urge my right hon . friend the Minister to go far , fast , on this policy area and Government priority . I urge he not to be deflect by Opposition Members who wish to fight the battle of the past . the Government be right to seek a well relationship with Europe , and to be ready for the opportunity , and indeed the test , that lie ahead for our continent . in human affair , there be a persistent fascination with novelty . it be curious that people clamour for what be different — for the other , whatever that other might look like . it be this fascination that lead to the similar interest in — indeed , preoccupation with — internationalism , even to the point where that mean give up power to someone beyond these shore . it be a damaging preoccupation . at its most curious , it lead to the peculiarity of — I be sorry the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) be not here , because he make a remarkably articulate speech , as I tell he afterwards — a representative of a nationalist party make the case against nationalism , and a Member who believe in sovereignty make the argument that sovereignty do not really matter , although he do qualify that by say that sovereignty in Scotland mean something different . he and I will no doubt have an opportunity to debate that at some length in future . that fascination fuel the sentiment that , after the referendum , pervade the Labour Benches and the Liberals ; it be a matter of record that I do not have a liberal bone in my body of any kind , whether socially , culturally , politically or economically , and I shall make the case against free trade in a few moment . as a result of that fascination , the cadre of people who populate a good deal of the establishment — the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) will know this , because a lot of the establishment live in his constituency ; it be not surprising that they pick one of their own , really — could not bear to come to term with the result of the referendum . for the people have speak ! and of course , the people ' s will directly contradict the assumption — the presumption — of that establishment , which they have foist on the people for donkey ' year . I do not say , by the way , that all the guilt lie on the other side of the Chamber . this begin with Harold Macmillan , and then be carry on by Ted Heath , who sell out our fisherman . it go on and on ; the gallery of villain be almost endless . one think of Roy Jenkins . there be noble exception , include labour ' s Peter Shore , and Tony Benn , who make the case for national self - government in what my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) tell I be one of the good speech he have hear in this Chamber in his year here . on our side , there be noble exception , too . Enoch Powell stand proud among those , but there be many other . [ interruption . ] there be Michael Foot , of course , on the other side . I will not go into the whole list , Madam Deputy Speaker , just in case you think I be go to . I be think of our lamented friend Sir Bill Cash , who give such great service . he be see as a bit of an outsider for the great bulk of his career , and then , in the last part of it , be prove right . my goodness , what be well than that in politic ? they say all political career end in failure , but Bill Cash ' s didn ' t ; his political career end in success . it have not end yet . Sir Bill be a sprightly 83 , and he have be texte some of we throughout the debate . do my right hon . friend agree with I that Sir Bill ' s great success be the sovereignty clause , which finally say , after year of campaigning , that this Parliament be sovereign ? that be on the statute book because of Bill . my right hon . friend be absolutely right ; Sir Bill ' s political career have not end ; his parliamentary one have . I can , like my right hon . friend , acknowledge that Sir Bill have texte I this afternoon , along with no doubt many other — [ interruption . ] — include my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green , I just gather . this tension — between the will of the people as express in the 2016 referendum , and the prevail assumption of what I describe early as the liberal establishment — underpin this debate . in the spirit of generosity , which I tend to employ — there be exception , by the way ; member can intervene on I , if they like — I note that there be those on the Government Benches , such as the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , who acknowledge , albeit grudgingly , that the referendum result can not be reverse and that we can not go back into the EU . that be not what those people say immediately after the referendum , of course . they fight hard for age to try to frustrate the outcome . they use every parliamentary technique they could conjure , as well as extra - parliamentary technique , include well - fund legal case , to try to derail Brexit . the scepticism personify by my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , who say she be doubtful about the Government ' s intent , be well found . I know that the Minister will want to reassure we , when he rise at the end of the debate , that that scepticism — in his case , at least — will not prove to be a prediction of what might happen next . scepticism be well found , though , because of the history . it be a labour politician who say , " you don ' t need a crystal ball when you ' ve get the record book " — Aneurin Bevan , of course . we have the record book when it come to Labour , and , worse still , when it come to the Liberal Democrats . I hope the Minister will be crystal clear , as he have be invite to be throughout the debate , on dynamic alignment , or , as I think it would be well describe , dynamic realignment : realign our relationship with the EU . such alignment would bring we close not to our friend and neighbour in Europe — of course , co - operation and collaboration be a natural part of mature policy — but to the EU , in term of governance , regulation , law , interference in our affair and , crucially , jurisdiction . it be the exercise of authority that we be really debate here — not the ability or , indeed , the willingness to share , but the danger of succumb to a power that take authority far and far from the british people . the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) talk about some of the challenge the world face and the answer to those global challenge . he be right to do so , by the way ; I think the first half of his speech be very good , although it get bad as it go on . the answer to those challenge be not to become more globalist or to give in to the force he describe that exert power in an unaccountable way , but to bring power back to the people . when those of we who advocate Brexit speak of take back control , we do so partly because we want power to be vest in this Parliament , which be accountable to the people whom that power affect . you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be almost a model for this , and other would do well to follow your model . we be answerable to and know by our constituent ; they understand that we make decision on their behalf . New Members of the House will be come to term with what that mean and its relentlessness . I do not mind it myself , but I can see how it could wear down soul less forceful and robust than I . it be that constant interaction with our constituent that be the lifeblood of democracy . whoever know who their Member of the European Parliament be ? I could not remember who the Tories be , let alone the member from the other party . People certainly do not enjoy that kind of intimate relationship and sense of mutual ownership when we be member of the EU . we feel as though we own our constituency and they feel as though they own we , and quite right too . [ interruption . ] I be be chide , Madam Deputy Speaker . I first hear of my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) when he arrive here — I never know who he be before then . I say that without disrespect . my right hon . friend be correct . while I be in the European Parliament , opinion poll research be conduct into whether people could name their Member of the European Parliament , and only 2 % of british people could name any Member of the European Parliament — regrettably , it be not I . it be typical of my hon . friend ' s humility and good humour that he should acknowledge that in the Chamber in such an open and frank way , and I pay tribute to he for it . the scepticism that I have describe and try to articulate take the form of real doubt about what realignment will really mean . let I just deal with three or four specific . I speak early in an intervention about security and defence . of course , it be right that we have a continue relationship with our neighbour in those term . we do work with the agency across Europe , but the critical security relationship we enjoy be with the five Eyes country — by the way , we also enjoy relation with many other country in the world outside the five Eyes and Europe — and it be vital that we reinforce that relationship . that , of course , overlaps with our commitment to NATO and defence . there may be some virtue in information sharing — indeed , there certainly be virtue in various kind of co - operation — but anything that undermine the sovereignty of that security and defence alliance seem to be highly questionable and also risky , which be bad . let I turn now to free movement . although the referendum be not all about immigration , immigration be perhaps the most pressing and salient matter during those time . People resent and resist free movement and they want to bring it to an end . for many , the term " take back control " epitomise the need to control our border — to decide who come here and who do not . although it may be understandable that people want to wax lyrical about young people be able to travel across the continent , what they say less enthusiastically , or do not say at all , be that young people from the entire continent will want to travel here . until we know the term of that , that could easily mean those people compete with Britons for scarce job . we have large number of young people not in education , employment or training . no Government have deal with that satisfactorily . I start speak about this more than 20 year ago . previous Labour Governments and , indeed , Conservative Governments do not really grasp that nettle as firmly as they should have do . disturbingly , the trend be upwards , and so I do not want people in my country to have to compete for education and training place and for other opportunity with possibly ten of thousand of people who have enter the country by those mean . there will be suspicion that it be the beginning of a return to free movement . what do mass immigration do ? the Prime Minister be right about this yesterday . he be a very late convert , but the Bible say that we must welcome all convert with enthusiasm . what mass immigration do be to displace investment in recruitment , training and retention of worker and in automation and improve workplace , make we ever more dependent on low - skilled labour . it have the effect of stultify the economy . any suggestion that we may return to that will inhibit — perhaps ruin — the Government ' s intention of improve productivity . if we really want to deal with productivity , we have to create a high - tech , high - skilled economy . I be fearful that that broad consideration will not necessarily hold sway when we get into negotiation with the EU on this issue of some relaxation of the bar on free movement , which be bring by the referendum . mindful that there be enthusiastic , insightful and bright colleague on all side of the House , but mainly on the conservative side , who want to contribute to the debate , I will draw my remark to a close . I can hear colleague say , " no , go on " , but I be go to resist those overture and finish with this thought : C . s . Lewis say , " we be what we think we be " . I think we be a proud , independent nation that have make a disproportionate contribution as part of western civilisation to world history . I think that our past be noble and should give we a sense of achievement and pride . I do not buy the self - loathing that seem to have take hold with too much of the very establishment that I deride early . will the right hon . member give way ? I will happily give way — let we see whether the hon . member be a self - loathe individual . I trust that I be not . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman appreciate when I say early how excited I be for the prospect ahead of we . I want to thank he for identify I a couple of time and associate I with my constituent , which I be certainly proud of . I also thank the right hon . Gentleman and a number of his colleague for make I feel like I have be in this place not for 10 month but for 10 year , and for give I the privilege of see the Brexit debate live , writ large again . it be a rare opportunity that I do not know I would get as a Member of this House , and I be most grateful . I invite the hon . gentleman to look at it through this prism : for all intent and purpose , I be Brexit , I stand for Brexit : I be a patriot , proud of my working - class origin ; I be determined to do my good for my constituent and my country ; and I be drive by a combination of the national interest and the common good . that be the spirit that inspire Brexit . it inspire those of we who campaign for it , and those who vote for it , which 75 % of my constituent in South Holland and the Deepings do . I be a bit resentful that Boston and Skegness next door have an even high percentage , but it be only by 1 % . as I say , C . s . Lewis say that we be what we think we be . I think that we be a proud country who can stand in the world , in collaboration with other nation , of course , but free and sovereign . labour can not have it both way . it can not say that we have do a great deal with India because we do not have to kowtow to the EU and that we have do a great deal with the US because we escape the clutch of the EU , while at the same time say that we want to creep back in and for they to have more say in any future deal we might do . let I end with the word of one of my political hero , Joseph Chamberlain , who understand that to protect our economy we need to protect the job , industry and enterprise that be part of it and not to give in to the free trade liberal . he say : " a democratic Government , rest on the confidence and support of the whole nation , and not on the favour of any limited class , would be very strong . it would know how to make itself respect , and how to maintain the obligation and the honour of the country . " no Member of this House should do less than that . rise — Order . I be now instate an immediate three - minute time limit . I call Luke Charters . next Monday be a really important day , as the UK rebuild our relationship with Europe . this be a big issue for my constituent , because they be fail for far too long . let I be clear : I can not believe that the Conservatives think that they have the credibility to run an Opposition day debate on this topic . the absolute cheek of they be off the scale . they come in here to talk down the merit of the youth mobility scheme — an arrangement that we already have with many non - EU country . what they be really do be demonstrate yet again a prehistoric approach to young people across this country . it be no wonder that support for they among that age group be virtually extinct . they want to deny a reset that will benefit our national security , food security and economic security with our big and most proximate trading bloc . my hon . friend be make an excellent , powerful speech . do he agree that the summit be not about give away power , but about work with our european neighbour in our mutual interest , of which there be many ? my hon . friend be spot on . that be why the conservative party be completely irresponsible . conservative Members be so out of step with reality that I may as well be ask they to take advice from the stone age . they say that they want to take back control once upon a time , but the reality be that over the last eight year they completely lose control of our economy , of our border and of our future . they do not want the pragmatic , sensible summit next week that will be focus on the future , not the past — a far cry from the chaos and conservative circus they preside over . let I move on to something we should all be welcome : a youth mobility scheme . it be important that we strike the right balance with that , just like we have with other country we already share deal with . but unlike Conservative Members , who focus on themselves rather than the public , let we talk about how such a scheme would matter to ordinary people . nobody would want an 18 - year - old at the start of their adult life , eager to explore the world , to be limit to just 90 day in Europe . it be natural for young people to swap Bishopthorpe in my constituency for Barcelona for a year or so , or Copmanthorpe for Copenhagen . as a parent in York , I would love for my child to have the privilege to enjoy an experience like the youth mobility scheme : an opportunity that can open mind and broaden horizon . research from the University of Oxford have show that mobility scheme lead to returnee who launch their own enterprise , start social venture , reform hospital practice and launch tech start - up — that sound good to I . a really important topic that we must address in the forthcoming summit be defence . before we leave young people , Opposition Members have say that we be not do enough for our young people and that a scheme would cause problem . do my hon . friend welcome the fact that yesterday the Prime Minister say that we must put british young people at the front of the queue for skill and training ? the Government have already commit £ 625 million for training up 60 , 000 young engineer , chippie and brickie — Order . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . a youth mobility scheme could be sensible and pragmatic and lead to opportunity across the continent . let I briefly touch on defence . last week , I hold a Westminster Hall debate about the benefit of a multilateral defence bank . I be pleased to have with I the founder of the Defence , Security and Resilience bank , Rob Murray , who be an inspirational ex - Army officer . I really believe that the UK could anchor a multilateral defence bank at the heart of any future defence pact with Europe . that be the single most transformative lever that the Government could pull to fortify our collective security , act as an industrial deterrent to Russia . I would welcome my hon . friend the Minister think about that run into next week . finally , I will touch on holiday . over the next few month , hard - work family across the country will travel to airport up and down the UK to go away for some hard - earn summer sun . since leave the EU , many of we have land at a foreign airport to see a huge queue and wait with envy as other pass straight through . I would really welcome it if , as a small gesture to give back to the grafter of this country , we could look at a new arrangement with the EU to ease airport congestion . will the hon . member give way ? I will not , because we be on a three - minute limit for speech . perhaps the hon . member do not want to give back to the grafter of this country , but I think we should be help hard - work Brits get through to the gate and straight to their sunbed . could we have some co - operation with the EU on airport congestion ? there be lot that I could talk about , but I will leave it there . this be about move on pragmatically and secure our future , just as we have recently with India and the US . next week , the EU and the UK will meet in London for a much vaunted reset of our post - Brexit relationship . if that deliver real benefit for our country , that be great — let we hear they — but forgive I , because I be a doubter . I have learn two lesson from my miserable direct experience of how Labour operate . first , do not trust the Prime Minister . between 2017 and 2019 , I and other watch he , as the shadow Brexit Secretary , twist every parliamentary rule to block what the british people vote for . that be not principle opposition ; it be sabotage . in so do , he connive to empower Brussels in a way that directly and actively undermine our national negotiating position . he be not alone in that endeavour , but it be a spectacle that disgrace this House . order . may I respectfully suggest to the hon . Lady that she need to be very careful in the language that she choose to use about the Prime Minister ? I be deliberately careful to adhere to the rule of the House , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I hope my intent be clear . let I be clear . I do not think that the Prime Minister be a straight dealer . he say what suit he , pose as a man of decency and hope — Order . I suggest the hon . Lady withdraw her comment , in which she have accuse the Prime Minister of not be straight . if that be outside the boundary of what be acceptable , I will withdraw the comment . my second lesson be that when labour negotiate , Britain lose . we have already see it in this Parliament , from the Chagos island to the backroom deal with the union . it be ideological naivety dress up as serious and sober diplomacy . labour think that sign a deal be the same as secure a good one . it be not , and all that will become clear . let we remind ourselves that Brexit be never a rejection of Europe and its people . it be a demand for democratic control over our law , our border , our trade and our future . the hon . Lady be a great fan of honesty in this Chamber , so I be sure that she will give I an honest answer . one way of understanding Brexit be that it replace a circular flow of people with a one - way flow of people . do she think that Brexit increase or decrease migration into this country ? Brexit allow we to introduce a point - base system and that be what we do . I will accept that mistake be make in the introduction of that point - base system , but the key be that we can tweak and tune that to accommodate the need of our economy and those of the people we represent . the british people could feel the world change around they and they know instinctively that the UK need to be nimbler , fast and more accountable in respond to those current , be they the movement of people or the regulation of business . we will not let it be say that there have be no Brexit benefit , because that be simply not true . for a start , we no long hand between £ 11 billion and £ 12 billion a year net to Brussels . we have secure trade deal , include from the fast - grow comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership nation . whatever we think about last week ' s US - UK tariff deal , we be not pay the same prohibitive trade taxis as the EU . we be set our own course in area such as AI , financial service and agritech . those be not abstract win or nostalgic impulse ; they be real opportunity for a modern , outward - face Britain . if next week ' s summit can ease practical friction , that be all well and good . I want what work for british people . however , I be worried that Labour do not know what it want , only that it want a deal . I be worried it do not grasp what the EU will demand in return . and I be worried that Labour think slick comms matter more than real outcome for the british people . today , we lie down a clear marker . on immigration , there should be no youth mobility scheme . it might sound harmless , but let we not be naive and have partial free movement by stealth . on defence and regulation , we want no dynamic alignment , and I be fascinate by the Minister ' s refusal to say anything far on that matter . if Labour really think it have a great deal , there be a simple thing it could do , which be to bring that deal back to this House for a vote . we be here to look forward to the UK - EU summit next week and not to relive the past ; although , listen to today ' s debate , I feel like I have go back about 10 year . as we look forward , it be important that we all , in this place , do what we can to make the life of people across the UK well . that be our job . even though the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , who be no long in his place , would probably not agree , time change , as do opinion . we know that many people — even some of those who might have vote for it — now realise that Brexit have damage our economy and our country . we only need to compare the result of the election in 2015 with the result last year for the conservative party to see that opinion can change quite drastically . look forward to the summit next week , I would like to focus on reality , not rhetoric . the former Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , say in May 2016 : " we think that leave the single market would weaken our economy and hurt job , trade and investment " . that be exactly what we have see : an act of economic self - harm that no other country be dream of . research by Aston University have show that export to the EU have fall by 27 % since Brexit , and the Office for Budget Responsibility have project a long - term reduction in gdp of 4 % relative to remain in the EU . in contrast , the great Brexit benefit of the Australia trade deal negotiate by the Conservatives be project to increase UK gdp by just 0 . 08 % , and the Government ' s new India trade deal , while welcome , be estimate to add only 0 . 1 % to GDP . neither of those trade deal even come close to touch the side of what we have lose through Brexit , which be why the Liberal Democrats be call on the Government to approach next week ' s summit with ambition and boldness and to agree a road map and a timeline for the creation of a new , bespoke UK - EU custom union to free up the red tape that be strangle our business . we have have lot of example . I could give the House many from my constituency , but in the interest of time I will move on . I also want to see we agree a youth mobility scheme as part of next week ' s summit . it would be a win - win for young people and deliver a boost for our economy . yes , we do want to see young people come over here . I no long want to see the pub in my constituency close two day a week because they can not get the staff . I do not want to see caf é s close down because there be not enough young people to staff the hospitality business . it be estimate that 120 , 000 young people have leave the hospitality industry since Brexit . we need progress . we need to improve the terrible deal that be do by the Conservatives , so I hope the Government will be bold , forget this rhetoric and bluster and sign a deal that we can all celebrate across this House . I be grateful to be able speak in this Opposition day debate ahead of next week ' s UK - EU summit . I campaign for , believe in and continue to believe in the promise of Brexit . at its core , Brexit be a vote for the importance of national democracy , a vote for national sovereignty and a vote against regionalisation and government by bureaucrat . I believe strongly in international co - operation , but I do not believe in institutionalisation . I do not believe that decision making get well in aggregate . my experience have teach I that it only get bad . it get more remote , less well informed and riddle with compromise that barely satisfy anyone and please no one . I continue to believe that the UK — its people and its government — decide its own future , not lock into continental bureaucracy , provide the well possible future for we . behind all the carefully choreographed language from Ministers about reset , there be one inescapable truth : this Labour Government risk lay the groundwork and take the first step to betray the full promise of Brexit . that should not be any surprise , give that they be lead by a man who campaign for the leadership of the Labour party on the basis of restore freedom of movement . he support a second referendum and he vote against Brexit 48 time . we on this side of the House be not prepared to watch this slow train wreck in silence . many issue have be raise by many member , but I want to raise just two that be of particular importance . first , on the youth mobility scheme , the fundamental issue that make freedom of movement so unpopular would remain at the core of any youth mobility scheme . the level of economic disparity across EU member state be fundamentally incompatible with the scheme become anything other than yet another route for mass low - skilled migration , at a time when the Government tell we they want to drive that down . secondly , there can be no dynamic EU rule taking or ECJ oversight . any agreement on food standard , service or carbon trading must not come at the price of automatic alignment . we do not leave the EU to find ourselves bind to it in everything but name . we must demand mutual recognition and independent dispute resolution , and that be the only thing we should accept . that would reflect a relationship of mutual respect . these be not unreasonable demand . they be the bare minimum that any sovereign state would expect when engage in talk with a foreign bloc . the United Kingdom vote to leave the EU , whether the Prime Minister and his Ministers like it or not . be it any wonder that they be look for answer internationally when we look at their domestic picture ? they be restrict winter fuel payment , inflation be still bite we , business confidence be shake , work family be be hammer with job - destroy taxis , and growth be stall . we must not allow this to serve as a diplomatic distraction from their domestic failure . we will not allow Labour to turn a reset into a roll - back , and any future Conservative Government will not be bind by any agreement that breach these clear red line . we will not allow Brussels to disguise control as co - operation , and we will not let the democratic choice of the british people be erode by stealth . Brexit be not a pause ; it be a pivot . it be a huge opportunity for our country , and I believe that the benefit will accrue for decade to come . the Government might be able to hide their true intention this week but they will not be able to hide they forever , and we will be here to make sure that the british people know what they really believe in . it be not the freedom and sovereignty of Brexit . with regret , it may not be possible for all member to speak in the debate , even with this time limit . no one represent Northern Ireland wish more than I do for a proper reset of the relationship with Europe . to be a proper reset , however , it must acknowledge and respect the fundamental concept of international agreement : that the agree party respect the territorial integrity of each other . that be the fundamental flaw and fail of the present arrangement . there be not , and there be not under the last government , a requirement for the territorial integrity of the United Kingdom to be respect . that be how and why it come to be that , in my part of the United Kingdom , in 300 area of law we be subject not to the law of this House but to those of a foreign Parliament . the EU insist , and alas the British Government accept , that Northern Ireland should be under its custom code , which treat GB as a foreign country and Northern Ireland as EU territory , and that we should be in its single market and subject to all its law . in that , we have the most dramatic refusal and repudiation of that fundamental concept of mutual acknowledgment of territorial integrity . unless and until that be address in a reset , we will never have a fair deal with Europe , and that be what I would dearly like to see . when I hear talk about dynamic alignment , it be not academic for I ; we experience it every day of the week . we experience the indignity of be subject to law that we do not make and can not change . we be subject to the indignity of the other part of this United Kingdom be describe as a foreign country whose good must be check come through an international EU custom border . if the Government be go to do an SPS deal with Europe , it inevitably fall , as it have in Northern Ireland , that we submit to the yoke of dynamic alignment with EU rule . that be the price that the EU extract for Northern Ireland . it be the price it will extract for an SPS deal with Great Britain . therefore , that be not the way forward . the way forward be to retrieve sovereignty over all of this country and to retrieve respect for territorial integrity . in mid - March , in my role as a vice chair of the EU - UK Parliamentary Partnership Assembly , I form part of the delegation that head out to Brussels for the assembly meeting ahead of the 19 May summit meeting . while it be a convivial affair , I come away with great concern about the tone of the conversation and contribution make by Labour Members . while the Prime Minister be on the record as say , as part of his red line , that there would be no return to freedom of movement and no rejoining of the custom union or the single market , the assembly would not allow I to include such a statement in the committee ' s recommendation that be publish . if , as be say , it be implicit , surely it be not controversial to include it as a statement of fact . the tone of the conversation and debate indicate a different direction . the red line seem to be draw in disappear ink . it very much feel that the leadership and the Members be singe from different hymn sheet , or perhaps the Members belie the Government ' s true intention . if that be the case , the Government should be much clear with the british public and those in this House about what they be try to achieve . go into the summit , the conspiracy of silence can not continue . Brexit at its heart be about restore power to Britain , allow we sovereignty . despite the result of the referendum , the goal of Labour Members seem to be to get ever close to the EU again . talk of youth opportunity seem innocuous , but Labour Members must explain their term and be realistic about what that would mean for open up free movement of people between the European Union and the UK via the back door . we must also be alert to the trade - off in this debate . I fear that , to secure a veterinary agreement , we will concede on dynamic alignment . the Minister have another opportunity to intervene , should he so wish . silence once again . I also fear that our fishery , which be not mention once in the labour manifesto , may be the next sacrificial lamb . the PPA recommendation , which the Conservatives dissent to on the whole , state that the assembly would provide " a signal at or before the Summit that a fair deal on fishery will be reach , build on current arrangement " , but what do " a fair deal " mean to this Government ? if , as a condition for get an SPS agreement , the french insist on a multi - year agreement that naturally shift the favour far towards their industry and our Government agree , they will have harm another community . first , they attack our farmer ; now they attack our fisherman . at the PPA meeting , member say that everyone should be clear that this Labour Government be clear in their ambition to reset the relationship with the EU , but I offer a word of warning : we must not betray our fisherman and risk our food security in do so . I could speak about so many aspect of the Brexit renegotiation that the Government be enter into — Conservative Members in particular have speak a lot about those issue — but I wish to focus on fishing and farming . it be always a worry when this Government go into bat in a negotiation , because when Labour negotiate , Britain invariably lose . the current agreement with the EU on fishery should be a baseline , and preferably a springboard , so that if the Government negotiate , they improve on that deal . that be always the intention . what be a negotiation if we go into it with a mind to sell out and come away with a bad deal ? that be what be on the mind of UK fishing community right now . when my hon . friend the Member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) ask the Prime Minister only last week to rule out give away sovereign british water to the EU , he refuse to do so . the Minister may intervene on I to give our fishing community the reassurance that the Government will not sell out to the EU on our sovereign water . we know what the French want : to send their trawler close inshore to our fishing water in order to catch fish from UK water and take they back to the EU and sell they . we be already in a situation whereby dutch trawler — 4 , 000 tonne vessel — travel up and down the english channel trawl the bottom of the ocean . they take a huge bycatch of fish , include bass , right in front of small british vessel — such as those fish out of the Isle of Wight , where my constituency be — that have a set of rule restrict their bass catch . they have to watch the dutch boat scrape those fish up by accident and take they home . if the government enter a negotiation , the current arrangement for fisherman must be a baseline . they must improve on the deal and absolutely rule out any concession to the French and the EU on sovereignty over british territorial water . I welcome the Government ' s state aim of negotiate a close trading relationship with the European Union — I wish the Minister well — but give this Government ' s record of negotiate international agreement , I worry about what the Prime Minister will agree on our behalf . we have see his weakness in the negotiation on the Chagos island . the Government intend to give away the sovereignty of a territory that we already own and then pay billion of pound to lease it back . I can assure the Minister that when he come to negotiate the detail with the European Commission , he will find it a great deal tough to deal with than the Government of Mauritius . the Government say that the agreement will improve growth in our economy , and that be commendable , but we on the conservative Benches would take that assurance far more seriously if the Government have not spend the last 10 month make life more difficult for british business . the Employment Rights Bill will increase cost to business by £ 5 billion a year , bear mostly by small and medium - sized enterprise , and the £ 25 billion national insurance job tax will make it more expensive to employ people — unless , of course , it be an indian business import worker from India , because then it will benefit from the new trade deal negotiate by the Secretary of State for Business and Trade . a close trading relationship with the EU would be very welcome . trade friction could be diminish easily . an agreement on sanitary and phytosanitary measure could be reach be the EU and the UK to recognise each other ' s standard . our standard be already the same as , or high than , the EU ' s , and the EU know this . but the EU have no intention of do that . it intend to wait until the UK have a Government who will agree to its rule , agree to the dynamic alignment of those rule and then agree that the Court of Justice of the European Union be the final arbiter of those rule . it seem that the EU ' s patience have be reward , because when I ask the Minister early to clarify what approach he intend to take , answer come there none . it be clear that this Government intend to sign we up to EU rule , over which this House will have no say . when those rule be change by the EU , Britain will simply have to follow . I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) that this be the beginning of a process to bring the United Kingdom within the regulatory control of the EU , and thereafter , perhaps an attempt by the Labour party to make we join the EU . there have be an astonishing lack of transparency by the Government ahead of the dud deal that they look set to agree next week , and that be personify by the Paymaster General , who refuse to engage on any of the substantive issue . briefing suggest that the Government be prepare to sign a deal that pull the UK back into the EU ' s regulatory and political orbit . anyone listen to the debate will have hear minister repeatedly refuse to deny that the Government be prepare to make the UK a rule taker once again . one of the frustration when we be negotiate the trade and co - operation agreement be that the EU refuse to back a veterinary agreement base on regulatory equivalence . give our record and our commitment to high SPS standard , that be clearly the common - sense approach , but the EU simply refuse to engage . instead , it have impose high cost and regulation , which fall on business and consumer . now , extraordinarily , it seem that this Government be simply go to roll over and concede that the UK will have to follow EU rule over which it have no say , and bring back ECJ jurisdiction . that be not necessary , desirable or consistent with a democratic vote to leave the EU and restore our sovereignty . once again , let we see whether the Minister will rule it out when he speak . have spend three year in the Ministry of Defence advise the then Defence Secretary , I be concern at the approach the Government be look to take on defence and security . NATO be the cornerstone of our defence , and the alliance should be our focus , yet a leak reveal that the deal will pull the UK into the EU ' s common security and defence policy , duplicate many of the function and institution of NATO — and for what ? the deal do not even guarantee british firm access to the rearmament fund . instead , that will be subject to future separate negotiation , and the UK will have to pay ; how much and on what term be completely unclear . it be very disappointing , give the need to defend our continent , that some in the EU want to link access to the defence programme to fishing right . [ interruption . ] France , indeed . once again , the Government have simply roll over . I know from my time in the Cabinet Office and no . 10 work on Brexit issue that the EU be determined to be inflexible from the start . Michel Barnier , the negotiator , embody that rigidness . unlike the man from Del Monte , he delight in say no . improvement to the TCA can be make . the agreement provide for that precisely and deliberately in the review mechanism . to get trade flow , there be easement that the EU could easily agree to , benefit business and consumer . instead of pursue those from a position of principle , this Government be negotiate a backroom deal and look set to do so badly and undermine our national interest . I start by pay a small tribute to the Government because just last week they pass secondary legislation , albeit make possible by the Conservatives ' groundbreake Genetic Technology ( Precision Breeding ) Act 2023 , that will mean more resilient crop , further food choice and enhance food security . although it might pain some of they , Labour Members have to admit they be make some use of the hard - win Brexit freedom secure by the Conservatives . why would we give they away ? the example I have use might seem somewhat niche , but this be exactly what a modern industrial strategy focus on technology , productivity and the future look like , and in do this , we have a head start on the continent , which be now fumble to produce regulation of its own in this area . we should be go far still . gene editing have the power to reduce the impact of animal disease and stop pandemic in their track . researcher at Imperial College London and the Roslin Institute , Edinburgh , be now close to make breakthrough on bird flu - resistant poultry use gene editing . the Government must introduce secondary legislation for farm animal , as they have do for plant . I visit Imperial ' s Silwood campus in my constituency . the student there be do incredible thing . when they make breakthrough , our regulatory framework should allow we to nimbly make use of they , but there be a very real risk that with next week ' s reset the Government could kill the progress with the sanitary and phytosanitary agreement they be negotiate . company at the forefront of the agricultural industry have raise concern about this reset , and I know that my colleague , in particular my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , and the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee and the all - party group on science and technology in agriculture have do the same . this be a rare — and much need as those on the Government Benches hammer our farmer — competitive unique selling point for british agriculture . report suggest that this Government will make concession on SPS to give they more bartering power on other issue , set a precedent for the wide agricultural relationship with the EU , bend over backwards for an establishment that the british people vote to reject . we would also be sign up to rule we have no power to influence . there be good reason to leave the EU and good reason to stay in the EU , and reasonable people could and do disagree , but there be no good reason to leave and opt into rule over which we have no say . that be the bad of both world . under Switzerland ' s agreement with the EU , it must align with almost all the EU ' s food safety demand and replicate any further regulatory change make in the future . that agreement may well be in the good interest of the Swiss but it would not work for Britain . every time we want to diverge in a way that could benefit the british people , we would have to supplicate to those in Brussels once again . carve - out be possible , but we all know what tend to happen when the Prime Minister negotiate . when Labour negotiate , Britain lose . a reset deal with a deep SPS agreement would be short - sighted , perhaps offer a quick boost in the near term but take the wind from the sail of long term , game - change investment that be start to flow in . we need to maintain a competitive advantage to supercharge investment in area like the Thames valley , where we have a world - lead life science sector . so I warn the Government not to chain Britain to the economic anchor of the EU and the dead hand of its precautionary principle regulator , especially when last week ' s secondary legislation on precision breeding be such a clear example of what regulatory autonomy for an innovative UK could do for we . I be grateful for the opportunity to contribute to this debate and to highlight the impact of the botched Brexit deal on business in my constituency , include pharmacy and the local hospitality industry . Stuart Yalden , the manage director of GW Martin , a small and medium - sized enterprise in engineering in my constituency , have raise concern over the additional cost and regulatory requirement the business now face when trade with the EU . in one recent case it export a small volume of product to a customer in France worth around £ 5 , 000 but the combine cost of paperwork , export licence and transport come to £ 2 , 500 . this be not a sustainable way to trade . to reassure my constituent , I hope that the Minister will give this important matter some consideration , and that he will raise these issue next week . we can not ignore the opportunity that have be take away from young people for no good reason and with no benefit to anyone . I have listen to argument from Conservative Members , but I still can not understand why anyone would want to stop young people from experience all that the world have to offer . I hope the Minister will agree with I that give young people , include those from disadvantaged background , the opportunity and freedom to live , study and work in Europe with a youth mobility scheme would be hugely beneficial to they and to the country . we must also recognise the negative impact that Brexit have have on our creative sector . we need urgent action to renegotiate touring arrangement with the EU , ensure that british artist can showcase their talent abroad without excessive red tape . the Liberal Democrats have set out a clear road map to reset UK - EU relation . we must start by restore trust , rebuild co - operation in key area such as research , climate policy and security and remove the barrier that have be strangle our economy . it be time to take meaningful step to repair our relationship with Europe and restore the prosperity that our country so desperately need . I sincerely hope that the Government will use the EU - UK summit to turn a page on the chaos of the last five year . Diolch , Dirprwy Llefarydd . the people of Wales have be let down by those who promise that Brexit would lead to a bright future ; instead , it have cause huge damage right across our community and economy . the hard Brexit pursue by the previous UK Government have cost the Welsh economy up to £ 4 billion and reduce the value of Welsh export by up to £ 1 . 1 billion , and post - Brexit trade deal , such as those with New Zealand and Australia , have be unfavourable for Welsh agriculture and manufacturing . since Brexit , Wales have lose out on £ 1 billion in european structural and rural development funding , which could have be use to support our deprived community . that be despite the promise make by the then Conservative UK Government in 2019 to " at a minimum match the size " of former EU funding in Wales and the other nation across the UK . in my constituency , the port of Holyhead , which be a strategically vital port for UK - EU trade , have see dramatic fall in traffic since Brexit . I note that follow the closure of the port after storm Darragh in December last year , the value of trade go through Holyhead have drop by £ 500 million . at the time , I call for the Government to establish a hardship fund to support business impact by the closure of the port . I urge the Government , as part of their strategy towards the EU , to make clear commitment to safeguard the port against future crisis , give its strategic importance . we need a relationship with Europe that work for Wales , and the opportunity to improve relation at the upcoming UK - EU summit be welcome . give that Wales be more reliant on export to the EU than the rest of the UK , it be crucial that we make trading between Wales and Europe easier . I have see the challenge that exporter in my constituency face , with local business the Lobster Pot tell I that it have struggle to export under the post - Brexit system . a veterinary agreement cover plant and animal health to cut red tape and cost for our export business will be vital . the Government should create a youth mobility scheme and join the Erasmus + programme so that our young people can study and work abroad , create new skill and opportunity for the next generation . we also need to see co - operation on the environment , the art and defence . I hope that next week ' s summit will be the start , not the end of strengthen our tie with Europe . this Government have say that their first mission be to grow the economy , and I can see no well opportunity to improve growth than by commit the UK and Wales to the long - term goal of join the single market and custom union . Wales have be make to suffer badly by those who champion the false promise of Brexit . this government must now take action to fix our damage relationship with Europe to protect the Welsh economy . I call the shadow Minister . we have have a strong debate this afternoon , with many contribution on both side . I thank so many of my hon . and right hon . friend , include my hon . friend the Members for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) and for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , my right hon . friend the Members for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) and for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , who know a great deal about this subject , as well as my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) and my hon . friend the Members for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) , for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) , for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) , for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) and for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) — what a fantastic set of knowledgeable contribution and real concern about the impending EU surrender summit . it be in the spirit of such rigorous debate that this House find its strength and purpose . it have be less than a year since the general election . in that time , this Labour Government have tank the economy , crush british business , see — as we have learn today — 100 , 000 few people in employment , drive wealth creator overseas at the rate of one millionaire every 45 minute , and shatter any sign of economic growth . I be afraid to say that the next item on this bleak agenda of declinism be the betrayal of the 17 million people who vote for this country to leave the european political union . this should come as no surprise to anyone , because those on the Benches opposite — and , I regret , some of those on the Benches to the left of I — vote against Brexit on no few than 48 different occasion . if this debate be reminiscent of the past , it be because that be precisely where some member wish to take we back to . ever since they be seduce by Jacques Delors , the Euro - socialist , their heart have never be in the mission of take back control of our law . next Monday ' s EU surrender summit formally mark the start of Labour ' s plan to dismantle the power of not just the Government , but this House , and push we back into the European Union as a passive rule taker . we Conservatives ask , " to what end ? why be the Government capitulate the very same hard - fight Brexit freedom that permit the signing of two trade agreement — notwithstanding their limited scope — in the past seven day ? " have we follow the policy that Labour be advocate in opposition , this Government would never have be able to reach an agreement with the USA or with India . they would not even have be in the room ; they would have be one of 28 member nation , resort to ask — beg — Ursula von der Leyen to perhaps consider put british interest first . we be right not to follow labour ' s advice then , and the Government would be right to listen to our advice now , yet it appear that they still have not learn . as we hear from many speaker this afternoon , the opportunity of the future will fall to those state that be agile — opportunity in area such as artificial intelligence , genomic , space , the creative industry , financial and professional service , and the life science . this country already have a good deal with the European Union . we have a mutually advantageous zero - tariff agreement that be value at £ 184 billion in service and £ 174 billion in good . nothing be perfect , and where there be sensible measure — such as pursue opportunity for mutual recognition — they should be explore . for example , one of the big friction our business face today be the denial of the use of e - gate , which be impose by the European Union out of spite . there be no such small - mindedness from we . however , the problem we face today be that the Government have fail to come to this House and explain exactly , or at all , what the Prime Minister ' s EU reset will look like . we have see nothing on the Government ' s negotiate objective , their red line or the suppose benefit , and we have not see an impact assessment or even an interim update . of course , I understand there will be fine negotiating detail that the Government will not want to share , but that be very different from share absolutely nothing . that be disrespectful of Parliament , and force this House to rely on leak and read between the line of Downing Street press handout . if those leak be to be believe , we know that Labour be plan on sign up the british armed force to an EU army , bind our strategic military decision - make power to bureaucrat in Brussels . [ interruption . ] the Minister be very welcome to rule these thing out — perhaps he will be more forthcoming than the Paymaster General be early . when it come to security , there be no big challenge than our border — I think even the Prime Minister recognise that on Monday — but the UK ' s request for share access to a joint illegal migrant database have already be reject by the European Union . so much for co - operation on security . defence procurement must never be " pay to play " . I have no idea why the European Union member nation would cut themselves off from the UK ' s excellent defence prime , unless this be once again a protectionist industrial policy cloak — and what twisted deal - make trade fishing right for the French for work more closely together , as we have so many time , on Europe ' s defence ? we warn that Labour would betray our fisherman , and it have sadly prove we right by put fishing right back on the negotiating table . my hon . friend have refer to the betrayal of our fisherman . I wonder whether the Minister will take the opportunity to deny media speculation that the Government be about to consent to multi - year agreement . the fisherman want single - year agreement , which be the international norm . can the Minister rule that out today ? I be afraid the Minister be as talkative as a haddock when it come to clarify his objective , but perhaps he will confound our expectation when he sum up the debate . just as the Prime Minister pretend to talk tough on immigration , by the same token he plan to open our border to an EU youth mobility scheme . perhaps the Minister will deny that , but it could mean million from Boulogne to Bucharest . limited volume scheme with comparable economy whereby the UK be able to decide who come here be fine in principle . we have such a scheme with Australia , but Australia be 10 , 000 mile away and its economy be very different from those that we be discuss . the wrong type of youth mobility scheme would disadvantage young british worker who , thank to this Government , be already struggle to get a foot on the ladder , whether for a job — unemployment be up again today — or to secure a roof over their head in Britain ' s housing market . what part of the Government ' s objective involve make thing hard for our young people ? what we do see be the Government proceed at breakneck pace with the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill . beware of Bills with boring name , Madam Deputy Speaker ! this be a Trojan horse , blank - cheque Bill give Ministers the power to roll back Brexit , sign we up to EU rule and abandon imperial measurement for good , all at the stroke of a pen . it provide unchecked ministerial power to make we a passive rule - taker of Brussels diktat . let I be clear . the Conservatives be certainly not oppose to co - operation with Europe as one among other market — that much should be obvious from the hard - fight trade agreement that we obtain under the last government — but we must not in any circumstance surrender our Brexit freedom so that the Prime Minister can reassure his next law school reunion that he have undermine our sovereignty . after the early equivocation from the Paymaster General , let I give the Minister — they have be chuntere all afternoon — a final chance to answer these question once and for all . can he reassure the million of people who vote to leave the EU that his surrender summit will not betray their wish ? will he confirm that there will be no backsliding on free movement or compulsory asylum transfer ? can he reassure taxpayer , or those who have lose their winter fuel allowance or whose benefit be set to be cut , that the UK will not be agree to any new payment to the EU ? be he able to confirm , for the benefit of our coastal community , that there will be no concession on fishing right ? can he assure the House that there will be no rule take , dynamic alignment , or extension of European Court jurisdiction ? will he pledge , in deed as well as word , that there will be no compromise on the primacy of NATO as the successful cornerstone of european security ? if the Minister be not able to provide those assurance , this Government be betray Brexit . all of the evidence that we have see today suggest that they be limber up for a surrender summit to damage Britain ' s interest . they be determined to deal away our hard - fought freedom , and we will lose control of our border , our law , our fish and our armed force . I urge the Minister to come clean and to have the honesty to explain to this House and this country why Labour be prepare to surrender the right of the british people to choose their own destiny . we know that when labour negotiate , Britain lose . I be grateful to have the chance to respond to this afternoon ' s debate . I do not know that the House have so many fan of " Quantum Leap " — a favourite show of mine when I be young . of course , fan of the show will know that Sam Beckett be advise by a hologram call Al , a US admiral who would come in and give good advice on how to get through challenge . instead , we have have the spectre of Sir Bill Cash come in via text to conservative Members . who would have think it ? this debate have be a journey back to the past . on this side of the House , we have a Government who want to take this country forward , not back . that be a stark contrast with those on the other side , who seem stuck in the last decade . we will not be rejoin the EU , the single market or the custom union , or return to freedom of movement , but we look forward to welcome president von der Leyen and Costa to London next week for the first ever UK - EU summit — the first annual summit to take place between the UK and the EU . the Leader of the Opposition recently say : " we announce that we would leave the European Union before we have a plan for growth outside the EU . these mistake be make because we tell people what they want to hear first and then try to work it out later . " of course , the lesson that we have learn , and to which the conservative party might want to pay careful attention , be that fail to plan be inevitably plan to fail . this government will not take the same reckless , chaotic and dogmatic approach when it come to the british people and our national interest . that be why , under the leadership of our Prime Minister , this Government be elect on a mandate for change , which be what we be deliver . we have be reset our relationship with our EU partner and our wide european partner , and we be use those strengthen relationship to deliver growth , prosperity , safety and security . I , the Paymaster General , the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and other have be work to do that . just this week , we host the Weimar + Foreign Ministers meeting on Ukraine , and we have have high - level engagement with many european leader . we have be travel around the continent , drive forward growth , drive forward action on illegal immigration , and drive forward relationship for our security and our defence . we be also set up structure to ensure that our european partnership deliver in the long term , include treaty or leader - level summit with some of our close partner , such as France , Germany , Poland and Ireland — not to mention the exciting and successful state visit by his Majesty the King to Italy last month . I be delighted that Buckingham Palace have today announce that President Macron , accompany by Mrs Macron , have accept an invitation from his Majesty to pay a state visit to the UK , and the Prime Minister and President will hold their next summit during that visit . increase engagement have already deliver result for the UK . on growth , we have have £ 250 million of Czech investment in Rolls - Royce small modular reactor and a £ 600 million investment by the polish logistic company InPost , and Iberdrola be double its investment through ScottishPower over the next four year . on security , we have new defence agreement with Germany and Romania , and new negotiation on defence agreement with Poland and Norway . on migration , we have a joint action plan with Germany and new migration deal with Serbia , Kosovo , Slovenia and Slovakia , and we have also agree new measure to tackle people - smuggle gang with France . on energy and climate , we have new civil nuclear co - operation between the UK and Finland , and other european country be respond positively to that . crucially , on security and defence — rise — rise — rise — they want answer to the question they have ask . I be go to give they some answer , and then I will happily take intervention . on foreign security and defence policy , let I be absolutely clear : NATO be and remain the bedrock of our security and our transatlantic alliance , but there be many strand to a muscle . whether it be the joint expeditionary force , our bilateral security and defence partnership , or our work through other pan - european body , through the European Political Community , in the western Balkans , through the Quint or , indeed , through a new UK - EU security and defence partnership , a muscle get strong when its multiple strand be flex . those thing do not contradict each other ; they be strengthen this country and our place in the world , and deliver on defence , on technology , on job , on industry and on security . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , and as I have say , we have work together in the past quite a lot . I will just ask a very simple question . the Government have constantly say they will not breach their red line . they have apparently say that publicly in Europe , and they have say it here . my simple question be : be dynamic alignment one of the red line ? I will come on to that in a moment , but we be absolutely clear . I have be clear , and so have the Paymaster General . I will come on to answer that question specifically in a moment . talk down Britain ' s role in NATO at a time of war in Europe when we be show such leadership be , quite frankly , irresponsible . I will not take lesson on NATO , european defence and security or the defence and security of this country from a party that shrink the british Army to the small size since the napoleonic era , when we have make the tough choice of investing in defence . let I be absolutely clear : there be no suggestion that the UK would ever join a european army , and no formal proposal for that have ever be put forward . indeed , on Gibraltar — I answer question on this early — we absolutely take a stand on the sovereignty of Gibraltar , give the importance of our military base there . I speak to the Chief Minister early about that , and the wild speculation that be be put about be hugely unhelpful . on fishery , we should be clear that there be of course a Brexit deal negotiate by the last government , and we be look for an overall arrangement that be beneficial for our fishery and our coastal community , but I be not go to get into a run commentary . on SPS — and , indeed , on the question the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) — ask , let we be clear : since 2018 , the UK ' s agrifood trade with the EU have fall by 20 % for export and 11 % for import , after adjust for trade inflation , so it be in the interest of both side to seek an SPS agreement that remove those barrier to trade . we be not interested in divergence for the sake of divergence or in a race to the bottom on standard . we will not get into a running commentary on this , but we have be absolutely clear . of course , there need to be appropriate dispute resolution mechanism . rise — Conservative Ministers ask question , but they may not want to hear the answer . [ interruption . ] order . we be absolutely clear : we be take serious action to reduce net migration , but we support control scheme that create opportunity for young people to experience different culture , travel and work . important question be ask about issue such as the Pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention . it be of course right and responsible that we look at it , ensure that any final decision be make in the national interest . however , I want to address a very fundamental point , which be this absolutely absurd and nonsensical suggestion of surrender . what an absolute disgrace to be talk Britain down — talk Britain down ! in fact , what we see be strength . we see strength from this Prime Minister and strength from this Government . in a world of turmoil — rise — no . in a world of turmoil and uncertainty — be there a red line on dynamic alignment — yes or no ? I have answer that question already . [ interruption . ] order . the Minister will be hear . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have be absolutely clear : surrender — what nonsense ! instead , we see strength in stand up for our steel and our car manufacturer , deliver trade deal with the US and India , invest in green energy , lead Europe with our key ally in the defence of Ukraine , tackle illegal migration and serious and organised crime , and boost funding and support for our national defence after shameful disinvestment by the previous Government . that be talk down Britain ; we be stand up for Britain . question put ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the original word stand part of the question . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Richard Holden David Simmonds Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 104 , Noes 402 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the propose word be there add . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Richard Holden David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 321 , Noes 102 . question accordingly agree to . the Deputy Speaker declare the main question , as amend , to be agree to ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) . resolve , that the House note the overwhelming mandate on which the Government be elect , which include reset the United Kingdom ' s relationship with the European Union to deepen tie with its european friend , neighbour and ally ; welcome the Government ' s commitment only to agree a deal that be in the UK ' s national interest and be in line with the manifesto on which the Government be elect ; support the Government ' s commitment to agree a new and ambitious security agreement between the UK and the EU to help tackle common threat , whilst note that NATO be the cornerstone of the UK ' s defence ; recognise the Government ' s ambition to negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary and veterinary agreement to address the cost of food and to tackle a range of other issue to reduce barrier to trade ; and far support improvement to the UK - EU relationship that be aim at make the UK safe , more secure and more prosperous , in line with the Prime Minister ' s Plan for Change . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medical Devices that the draft Medical Devices and Blood Safety and Quality ( Fees Amendment ) Regulations , which be lay before this House on 3 April , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . Adjournment Resolved , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) House adjourn .