business before Questions Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] second reading oppose and defer until Tuesday 13 May ( Standing Order no . 20 ) . New Member the follow Member take and subscribe the oath require by law : Sarah Joanne Pochin , for Runcorn and Helsby . Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — Maternity Improvement Strategy what assessment he have make of the potential merit of implement a national maternity improvement strategy . we expect all woman to be show the utmost care and respect when receive maternity and neonatal care . this year ' s plan guidance require integrate care board and provider to deliver the key action in this final year of NHS England ' s three - year delivery plan . it be clear from listen to the harrowing story of bereaved and harm family , however , that we must do more . the Secretary of State be urgently consider the significant action need to ensure that all woman and baby receive the care they deserve . last year ' s birth trauma inquiry report expose that maternity service in this country be woefully underfunde , and now the Health Secretary intend to cut the budget for maternity improvement from £ 95 million to just £ 2 million , equate to less than £ 4 per child bear in this country each year . what kind of change be that ? what message will that send to mother across the country ? do the Secretary of State plan to implement any of the recommendation from the birth trauma inquiry report , many of which be commit to by the previous Government ? the hon . Gentleman be not correct : maternity funding be not ringfence at the same level — I think that be what he be refer to . it have , however , absolutely be commit to as far as ICB allocation be concern . local leader will decide how good to allocate that money . we will continue to work with Donna Ockenden and the family who have be affect by previous incident and ensure that the recommendation of her report and the maternity review be fully implement . as colleague will be aware , there be a consistent failure in maternity unit to listen to woman and put their experience — and quite often their pain during childbirth — at the heart of drive improvement . what assurance can the Minister give we that woman ' s experience and voice will be at the heart of any maternity improvement strategy that the Government focus on ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight that point , which have be find in all the review that have be undertake . it be completely unacceptable . that be why the Secretary of State have continue to meet family and hear their experience to ensure that we learn from they , continue to support the implementation of those recommendation and , crucially , ensure that woman ' s voice be take forward as part of our 10 - year plan . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I fear that many will have find the Minister ' s answer to my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) disappointing . he highlight that the previous Government commit to the headline recommendation of the cross - party birth trauma inquiry lead by the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) and the former Member for Stafford , Theo Clarke , who have recently write about her experience in a book , and in the Daily Mail call for a national maternity improvement strategy . no equivalent commitment have be make by this Government . let we try again : will the Minister commit without any equivocation to implement the inquiry ' s recommendation to produce a national maternity improvement strategy ? to be clear for the shadow Secretary of State , the Secretary of State be continue to look at all those recommendation and consider how good to respond . we now come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . too many family in Shropshire have suffer the agonising loss of a baby follow the scandal at Shrewsbury and Telford hospital NHS trust . the Care Quality Commission rate 65 % of trust as inadequate or require improvement for maternity safety , and the taxpayer fork out a staggering £ 1 . 15 billion in compensation for maternity failing last year . with the £ 100 million put aside to deal with unsafe staffing no long ringfence , can the Minister reassure we that those safe staffing level will remain on our maternity ward ? I know the Liberal Democrat spokesperson follow this issue very closely in her own local community . as she know , we be commit to ensure that the recommendation of the review be fully implement as part of that three - year plan , but I gently say to she that the Liberal Democrat party have consistently oppose the extra £ 26 billion that this Government raise to support the wide health service . without that extra funding and the decision that the Chancellor have make , we would not be able to make the progress that we be now start to see . shift Care into the Community what step he be take to shift care from hospital into the community . what step he be take to shift care from hospital into the community . despite my good effort , may I welcome the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) to her place ? be a Member of Parliament be a privilege , and I know how special it be to sit on these Benches have be send here by constituent . regardless of our political difference , I wish she well personally . as part of our 10 - year plan for health , we want to deliver a real shift in the centre of gravity in the NHS , so that people get more care close to home and , indeed , in their home , too . the NHS be as much a neighbourhood health service as a national health service . we have already make progress in shift care to the community : provide more than £ 889 million in funding for GPs ; agree the GP contract for the first time since the pandemic ; and recruit more than 1 , 500 gps on to the frontline . our 10 - year plan will set out how we will continue to transform the NHS into a neighbourhood health service . I be deeply concerned about the quality of healthcare for people experience homelessness in my constituency of Bournemouth West . HealthBus , a local charity , be do great work in get out into the community to treat people where they be and to prevent they from have to go into hospital , but it be not get the funding that it need and have discover serious discrepancy in the way that the local integrate care board commission service , particularly in relation to health inequality . can the Secretary of State tell I how this government be prioritise health outcome for people experience homelessness , and will he meet I and HealthBus to discuss how we can support its important work ? the found mission of the NHS be to be there for people whenever they fall ill , so that they never have to worry about the bill . unfortunately , thank to the disaster and the failure of 14 year of Conservative Government , too many people in our country today experience the fear that Nye Bevan seek to eradicate . as my hon . friend would expect , tackle health inequality for homeless people and other vulnerable group be central to the value of this Labour Government . those value will be reflect in our 10 - year plan for health . I would be delighted to hear from she far on what we can do to improve service in her area . I thank the Secretary of State for his announcement this morning regard GP service . one way that pressure be ease in our GP service be through charity such as Compassion in Action , which provide non - clinical , whole - person care in my constituency . it receive GP referral from across Leigh and align with the Government ' s aim to shift care from hospital to community . will the Minister join I in thank the staff and the founder , Pam Gilligan , and agree to come for a tour of the facility and to see at first hand the impact that they have ? I wholeheartedly join my hon . friend in thank Pam and everyone at Compassion in Action for the work that they do . at the heart of our approach to health be a recognition that government action be essential for improve health outcome in the country , and that Government act alone will not be sufficient . that be why work with the voluntary sector , employer , trade union , community group and all of we as individual citizen be vital for tackle health inequality and improve care in our country . I would be delighted to ensure that one of the team pay a visit to the charity as soon as possible . Stuart Anderson , welcome back . community hospital can reduce pressure on major hospital , especially in rural community such as mine . will the Secretary of State lie out his plan to support community hospital in South Shropshire ? at the heart of this Government ' s approach be investment in , and reform of , the NHS to ensure that we deliver well outcome for patient . that mean the big devolution of power in the history of the NHS with more decision take close to patient and to their community , and more power in the hand of patient , too . community hospital have a vital role to play , and thank to this Government ' s decision to deliver £ 26 billion more into our NHS — oppose by the conservative party — we will no doubt be able to make further and fast progress . in my constituency there be an age population in need of local healthcare service . will the Secretary of State meet his scottish counterpart to discuss the need for increase access to community healthcare , and specifically the need for a new health and care centre within my constituency ? the hon . member will be delighted to know that only last week I meet with my counterpart in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland to talk about how we can work together to improve health and care throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . she will know that health be devolve , but thank to the decision take by this Labour Government , the Scottish Government have just be deliver the big financial settlement since devolution begin . that might mean that they finally make some progress on their waiting list in Scotland , where one in six scot be on a waiting list and the SNP be on its fifth NHS reform plan in four year . GPs : time with patient what step his Department be take to support GPs to spend more time with patient . I be pleased to tell my hon . friend that we have recruit over 1 , 500 additional gps since October through an investment of £ 82 million , help to fix the front door to the NHS . today we have announce £ 100 million to unlock new capacity and more appointment in GP surgery . we have also launch a red tape challenge and scrap unnecessary target in our new GP contract to cut down on bureaucracy and free up time to spend with patient . my constituent in Halesowen have write to I time and again complain that they be call their GP surgery at 8 am , as instruct , but be still unable to get a same - day appointment . can the Minister set out how the £ 100 million investment in GP surgery , consult room and other facility will finally put an end to the frustrating 8 am scramble ? I absolutely share the frustration of my hon . friend and his constituent . the investment make today be in response to GPs tell we that they need more space ; the investment will lead to more capacity and well access and outcome for his constituent . today ' s announcement be only possible thank to the decision make in the October Budget , which be oppose by every party opposite . the choice be clear : investment in our NHS with Labour , or cut with the Tories and Reform . my constituent Dr Toby Nelson , an NHS consultant dermatologist , have start a business that seek to address the heavy demand on primary care for skin health screening . his business Map my Mole send an image capture kit to patient to attach to their smartphone . the patient then send a high - resolution image remotely to be review by a specialist consultant , bypass the need for a GP appointment and free up time and resource for both doctor and patient . it have already result in a significant drop in skin cancer referral in pilot GP surgery . will the Minister agree to meet Dr Nelson and I to discuss this revolutionary proposal ? the hon . Lady raise what sound like an extremely interesting scheme . she will know that we have a strong commitment in our 10 - year plan to shift from hospital to community , and indeed from analogue to digital . the digital aspect of that scheme sound very interesting , so I would be more than happy to take further representation from she . Eye Care : 10 - year Health Plan what step he be take to improve eye healthcare through the 10 - year health plan . my hon . friend be an outstanding campaigner on this issue , as I be sure everybody across the House be aware . she will know that the NHS England accelerator pilot have show how improved IT connectivity and a single point of access can speed up eye care referral and allow more patient to be manage in the community . that be a great example of the shift we want to make from analogue to digital . we be develop the 10 - year health plan with input from the public , our partner and health staff , and that of course include the eye care sector . I thank the Minister for his response , and I welcome all the work that he and the Secretary of State be do in rebuild our NHS . however , we know that there be a capacity crisis within eye healthcare . nhs ophthalmology continue to be the busy and large outpatient service . that be essentially what be lead to many people not get see soon enough , which be result in many of they lose their sight unnecessarily . what we need be a join - up healthcare plan . will the Minister ensure that eye healthcare will be part of the Government ' s wide 10 - year health plan ? my hon . friend be right that early intervention be crucial , and the interface between the high street and secondary care be a vital part of that . that mean have a join - up eye health strategy . the 10 - year plan will have that join - up strategy at its heart . she will be pleased to know that , since July , ophthalmology waiting list have drop by 24 , 000 , so change have begin . there be still a long way to go to dig we out of the mess leave by the Conservative party , but it be thank to the decision that the Government have make , oppose by opposition party , that we be begin to see that change gain traction . another part of the 10 - year health plan be the use of digital technology . auto - contouring with artificial intelligence reduce waiting time and free up capacity for radiotherapist , which be why £ 15 . 5 million be allocate to it under the Conservative Government ; money that have be cut under the Minister ' s Government . why ? I think that the right hon . Gentleman be refer to the single point of access digital technology , which be game change in term of improve the interface between high street and secondary care . it be probably worth remind he that the question be about eye care . we be absolutely committed to single point of access technology , which we believe can be game - change technology and be a vital part of our shift from analogue to digital . the president of the Royal College of Ophthalmologists have state that the widespread outsourcing of NHS cataract surgery to private , for - profit provider risk the integrity of hospital eye surgery department mean that there will be few service to treat patient with preventable blindness . how can we reassure the public that such service will be maintain ? although the independent sector clearly have an important role to play in tackle waiting list and backlog , we will not tolerate any overpriced or sub - par care , and we will not tolerate any distortion of patient choice . the recently publish partnership agreement between NHS England and the Independent Healthcare Provider Network commit to end incentive that can lead to that , and to support equal access and genuine choice for all patient . we be work together to deliver on that . NHS Sussex ICB be one of only five in England not to commission a minor eye condition service — know as MECS — in community optometry setting . that mean that patient in Chichester with urgent or minor eye issue have to either join the 8 am queue for a GP appointment or go to their hospital rather than be see quickly on the high street . give that 99 . 9 % of MECS patient elsewhere in England be see within 24 hour , will the Minister set out what action he be take to ensure that those service be commission consistently across all icb within the 10 - year health plan ? icb be responsible for the commissioning of these service , which be clearly extremely important , and the early intervention side of eye care be particularly important . I would be more than happy to look into that issue with the hon . Lady ' s ICB if she write to I and make further representation . english devolution : Integrated Care Boards whether he have have discussion with the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government on the interaction between mayor and integrate care board , in the context of the english devolution White Paper . our mission - drive approach to this issue mean that we be work with all Departments to deliver an NHS fit for the future . we expect integrate care board to work closely with their mayor to maximise public health and contribute to the Government ' s health and growth mission . funding and delivery of a gp surgery for Wixams in my constituency continue to fall between the crack of developer , local council and the local ICB . do the Minister agree that to break those deadlock and build the infrastructure that our community require , new mayor should have the power to direct icb , make locally elect politician responsible rather than unelected quango ? the hon . member tempt I slightly on local accountability , on which he have be a strong campaigner . as he know from meet I , I agree that it be important that such local body respond properly so that where there be expansion of housing , which we want to see , they be support by local infrastructure . I be happy to come back to he with any further detail . Norfolk and Waveney integrate care board be consult once again on close Norwich ' s walk - in centre . it ask the same question two year ago and the city and Norfolk say , " no , we want to save our walk - in centre . " do the Minister agree on the importance of walk - in centre , and in the context of devolution , how will we ensure that icb heed what resident say ? my hon . friend be right to campaign on behalf of her constituent to make sure that more service be deliver in community . we want to see service bring out of hospital and into local community . it be up to the ICB to decide how those be commission , but we will certainly make sure that , as part of our commitment under our 10 - year plan , we see more of those sort of service work together in neighbourhood . Health and Social Care Reform what plan he have to reform NHS health and social care service . People deserve the very good health and care . our plan for change be already bring waiting list down . our 10 - year plan for health will set out how we improve access and make the three shift that I describe early , so that the NHS be fit for the future . at the same time , we be rebuild adult social care now and for the future . Baroness Casey ' s independent commission have launch , and it will set out through its work how we will create a national care service . all that be make possible thank to the investment decision take by the Chancellor in her Budget . that investment be oppose by the Conservative party , which show that only Labour can be trust to invest in and modernise our NHS . last week , the Centre for Young life publish a report on the state of mental health support for child and young people across England . it outline that despite an ongoing crisis in mental health among young people , " there remain a 55 % treatment gap " between adult and child ' s mental health , and that " few than 10 % . . . of icb have a dedicated strategy " for support child ' s mental health . will the Secretary of State consider strengthen statutory guidance for icb to ensure they assess the local need of child and young people , publish treatment gap datum on an ongoing basis , and create join - up , community - base mental health support for our young people ? young people ' s mental health be a priority for this Government . that be why we set out in our manifesto our commitment to make sure that mental health support be available in every primary and secondary school in the country . we have walk - in mental health service in every community , and we invest in the mental health workforce , so that we can cut waiting time . I be also work closely with the Secretary of State for Education to make sure that our education and health service work together , so that child get the very good start in life , and so that we look after mind , body , soul , aspiration and future . the Chancellor increase the cost of employ people in social care by raise national insurance contribution for social care employer , and then exempt NHS employer from those increase cost . when will this Government properly support social care and relieve the sector from pressure cause by the Chancellor under this government ? thank to the decision take by this Chancellor , we be put £ 26 billion more into health and social care . thank to the decision take by this Chancellor , the spending power of local authority have rise . thank to the decision take by this Chancellor , we have deliver the big expansion of carer ' s allowance since the 1970 . thank to the decision take by this Chancellor , we have significantly increase the disabled facility grant , not just last year but this year . that be the investment deliver by a Labour Government , and oppose by the Conservatives and Reform , and it show that only Labour can be trust with our NHS . you will have another chance in a minute ! I call the shadow Minister . this Government have be in power for 10 month . two month ago , Labour postpone the cross - party talk on social care . when will they be reschedule ? as I have announce to the House , Baroness Casey ' s independent commission be up and run . she be make contact with party across the House as part of the work of her commission , and it be for she to decide the basis on which she engage with party . I look forward to work with party at the conclusion of the process . I thank the Secretary of State for that change , make the process no long cross - party . the Government have say that the change will not be implement fully until 2036 . only this week , the Health and Social Care Committee release its new report on social care and the huge cost of inaction . the report call for new action that could be take now , such as the publishing of annual assessment of unmet care need for adult , and annual estimate of how much delayed discharge cost the NHS . will the Secretary of State commit to those two today ? I take the Select Committee seriously , and I will look carefully at its report , but the shadow Minister have some brass neck . he mention this government have be in office for 10 month , but the Conservatives have more than 10 year in office , and we be pick up the piece from the mess they leave behind . that be why they be kick out of government , and why they be be kick out of opposition . look at this lot , I think : this must be how the islander feel , look at the dodo . Emergency dentistry : access what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of access to emergency dentistry . we be already roll out our manifesto commitment of 700 , 000 extra urgent dental appointment per year . these appointment be available across the country for those experience painful dental issue such as infection , abscess or crack or broken tooth . we be committed to reform the dental contract and make NHS dentistry fit for the future . the dental contract impose in 2006 be widely recognise as a key factor drive dentist out of the NHS . in my constituency of Stratford - on - Avon , there be no NHS dentist currently take on new patient , and exist NHS patient be be actively pressure to go private or seek care out of county . will the Minister commit to urgent reform of NHS dentistry , and set out a timeline for negotiation , so that I can reassure my constituent ? the hon . member be right to say that the dental contract be fundamentally flawed and need reform . I meet representative of the British Dental Association on 8 April , and have a productive discussion with they about dental contract reform . official from the Department of Health and Social Care be work hard with the BDA and other stakeholder to develop a dental contract that work for patient , for dental professional and for the public purse . I will of course keep she and the House update . I know this issue be of huge importance to the country , and to every Member of this House . it be a year today since I be swear into this House , and every single week , someone have raise with I the issue of get access to an NHS dentist in Blackpool . nowhere be take on adult , and nowhere be look after pregnant woman . this have to change , so can the Minister outline to my constituent when they will be able to get access to an NHS dentist under this Labour Government ? there be no perfect payment system . we have to look at the issue around unit of dental activity , and at option around capitation and sessional payment , and come to a conclusion about what work and about how to ensure that everything that we commit to NHS dentistry be spend on NHS dentistry . we be in a mad situation in which , although demand for NHS dentistry be go through the roof , we have an underspend every year on the contract . we have to fix that . it will take some time to work that out with the British Dental Association and other key stakeholder . what be tragic about this situation be that the Conservatives have 14 year to fix the situation and leave it in a terrible mess . Perinatal Mental Health what step he be take to improve perinatal mental health provision . I commend my hon . friend for her work on such an important topic ; I know it be very personal to she . specialist perinatal and maternity mental health service be available across England , provide vital support to parent before , during and after pregnancy , include increase access to evidence - base psychological therapy . we be train thousand more midwife to well support woman throughout pregnancy , with mother and baby unit and community service provide postnatal support . tomorrow be World Maternal Mental Health Day , recognise the particular challenge that some mum face from pregnancy to birth , and after birth . I commend the Secretary of State and his team for their rapid work to get the nhs deliver well for patient again . as they develop the 10 - year plan for the NHS , what measure will be take to ensure that all woman face perinatal mental health challenge can access the right psychological support , and that there be no postcode lottery ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in recognise the importance of support woman ' s health throughout pregnancy and into parenthood on Maternal Mental Health Day . we be committed to improve the support available , and it will form an important part of our 10 - year plan . we be invest £ 126 million in family hub and start for life service , to support parent from pregnancy to their child ' s early childhood , and we will continue to work with she on this . I thank the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) for her question and the Minister for her answer . I be delighted to be form the all - party parliamentary group for fatherhood . will the Minister outline the step that she will take to improve perinatal mental health for father ? I congratulate the hon . member on take forward that work . the Minister responsible will be happy to continue to work with he in any way possible to support that work on this important aspect of parenthood . Preventive Healthcare : New Technology what step he be take to use new technology to help improve preventive healthcare . we be already use technology to improve preventive healthcare and to transform the NHS . we have invest £ 11 million in artificial intelligence to trial breast cancer screening mammogram interpretation . we be pilot the NHS health check online to tackle cardiovascular disease , and our NHS Better Health digital product , include the award - win Couch to 5 K app , be use by million of people last year to tackle preventable condition . More will be include in the 10 - year health plan . leed be lead the way in health tech , with Leeds teaching hospital , the city council , NHS Digital and firm like EMIS , headquarter in Rawdon in my constituency , drive real innovation . how will the Secretary of State and his team ensure that Leeds be at the heart of the NHS 10 - year plan , so that we can shift to prevention and spread the benefit to every corner of the UK ? I commend the work that my hon . friend refer to . the new HealthTech innovation hub — a flagship project of the West Yorkshire investment zone — bring together West Yorkshire combine authority , organisation like the HealthTech Leeds partnership , academic , clinician , policymaker and more than 250 health tech firm headquarter in the region . they be already drive forward health innovation together . as we have say before , we must learn about the good of the NHS and take it to the rest of the NHS . the 10 - year plan will shift we to a model in which the NHS focus on prevention , with more service deliver in local community through new technology . a piece of technology that already exist that can prevent hydrocephalus be the humble tape measure . the Secretary of State say that he would ask the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence to conduct a review of the frequency with which infant ' head should be measure to allow we to detect hydrocephalus early . the charity Harry ' s hat — Hydrocephalus Awareness Trust — base in my constituency say that this review be not necessary , and that the evidence be already there . will the Minister meet I and the charity to discuss this far , so that more infant ' life can be save ? in fairness , the Secretary of State do meet they . and he have just sell I on what a wonderful charity it be . I would be more than happy to make sure that the relevant Minister meet the hon . member to discuss the matter . NHS England : abolition what progress he have make on the abolition of NHS England . as the Prime Minister and I announce , NHS England will be bring back into the Department to put an end to the duplication , waste and inefficiency result from two organisation do the same job . that be the final nail in the coffin of the disastrous 2012 reorganisation , which lead to the long waiting time , low patient satisfaction and most expensive nhs reorganisation in history . since the announcement , we have set up a joint board , assess resource and responsibility across exist organisation , develop proposal about the role , function and structure of the new centre , and start detailed operational and legislative planning . the Secretary of State claim to support change , yet delay to NHS reorganisation , include to the promise abolition of NHS England , suggest otherwise . be it not the truth , as he outline in his Guardian article , that he be bogge the system down in a slow , top - heavy restructuring , while resort to tax rise , instead of deliver the decentralise , locally deliver , value - for - money healthcare that our constituent deserve ? a lot of word and not a lot of sense . we be reform the NHS and , as a result of these change , redirect hundred of million of pound to the frontline . what be the conservative party ' s response to the abolition ? the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , say it could be a " great thing " , but it " could be a total disaster " . will they let we know when they have make their mind up ? the Lansley reform be implement top down by the Conservatives . the idea that the NHS could ever be truly independent , when it be there to serve we — the taxpayer and the general public ! do the Secretary of State agree that it be absolutely the right decision to move funding away from the centre to the frontline to prioritise patient in the NHS ' s work ? my hon . friend have huge experience in this area , and she be absolutely right . what we see under the Conservatives be bloated bureaucracy — layer upon layer of checker , when we need more doer . that be why frontline staff , patient and provider leader all welcome the change that we be make , so that we can invest more into our frontline . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Health Service Journal report that official have acknowledge that the first draft of a high - level plan for merge NHS England and DHSC have be delay . when we ask any write question about the merger , the standard answer seem to be : " minister and senior Department official will work with the new transformation team at the top of NHS England , lead by Sir Jim Mackey , to determine the structure and requirement need to support the creation of a new centre for health and care . " even when we ask a question specifically about the size of the transformation team , the answer be virtually identical . the Government either wilfully decide not to answer , or simply do not know . as with so many thing , the Government go for the headline - grab announcement and talk the talk on reform , without have do the actual work to deliver it . my question to the Secretary of State be simple : when will that first high - level plan for the merger , with a full assessment of cost and saving , be publish ? honestly , the right hon . Member have his chance — he be the Minister who take forward the last reform Act , under the Conservative Government . he fail in that task , and now he turn up without a shred of remorse or a shred of humility , attack this government for clean up the mess that the Conservatives leave behind . they be not a party of government — they be not even a party of opposition any more . they be a total irrelevance . neighbourhood Health Centres what step his Department be take to implement neighbourhood health centre . we be committed to fix the front door of the NHS , include by deliver the primary care infrastructure require to enable a neighbourhood health service . we have already take step to improve primary care infrastructure , include by provide £ 100 million of capital funding to upgrade gp building . we will set out how we will move to a neighbourhood health service in our upcoming 10 - year plan , follow the spending review . I thank the Minister for her answer . Workington suffer from some really poor health outcome and have an incredibly fragmented health system . I have work with local leader in my constituency to pull together a plan for a new neighbourhood health centre call the Workington health zone , base around multidisciplinary team , clear goal , less bureaucracy and much great access for patient . do the Minister agree that this be exactly the kind of reform that we need to enable through the forthcoming 10 - year plan ? I do agree , and I would be delighted to work with my hon . friend on the Government ' s commitment to deliver a neighbourhood health service that reinforce integrate work for the NHS , local government , social care and wide partner as the norm . Knutsford desperately need a modern medical centre . the local gps and the community be unite in feel that current provision be no long fit for purpose . with the population grow , it can not meet everybody ' s need . in the light of the Government ' s announcement of £ 102 million to modernise GP surgery , so that it be easy for they to see more patient , will the Minister meet I to discuss a new modern medical centre for Knutsford ? I thank the right hon . member for recognise the significant investment announce today in GP service and building , and I would be delighted to ensure that the relevant Minister meet she . Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent Integrated Care Board : wait Times what discussion he have have with Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent integrate care board on patient waiting time . drive down waiting time be one of this Government ' s top priority , and my colleague at NHS England continue to keep in regular contact with icb on improve waiting time and deliver the ambition set out in our elective reform plan . since July , we have cut waiting list by more than 219 , 000 across England , and by 6 , 000 for University Hospitals of North Midlands , and have deliver 3 million more appointment . I thank the Minister for her answer , and recognise the Herculean effort the Department be make to reduce waiting time , particularly in Stoke - on - Trent , but one cancer patient who be have treatment at the Royal Stoke hospital in my constituency have share her story with I . from the initial operation , it take six week for she to be tell that she may have cancerous cell in her lymph node . there be a delay in get the CT scan , and after the scan , she be tell that it would be 10 week before she could meet an oncologist to discuss the result . will the Minister say a bit more about how the Department , while reduce wait time to access service , will make sure that treatment be give in a timely fashion once someone have a treatment plan ? I be sorry for the experience that my hon . friend ' s constituent have have , and he highlight a really important aspect of the patient journey through the system . I want he and the House to be assure that we be look at the entire patient journey , both into hospital and between hospital . we be determined to improve patient experience and quality of care , and to get back the patient satisfaction that be squander by the last government . hospital Backlogs what step he be take to tackle hospital backlog . reduce hospital backlog be a key priority in this Government ' s plan for change , as the 18 - week standard for elective care have not be meet for almost a decade . our elective reform plan set out how we will return to that standard by the end of this Parliament , through a combination of investment and reform . since July , the waiting list have reduce by over 219 , 000 and we have deliver an extra 3 million appointment , exceed our manifesto pledge and do it early than plan . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his answer and for the progress make , but there be still more to do . my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme have recently be recover from brain surgery at the Royal Stoke university hospital . however , she have face multiple setback due to failure in the duty of care , include scald injury and a severely mishandle admission process . she be now receive the correct care , but she have to wait many month to be admit to the correct ward , and have be give limited time for rehabilitative treatment . do the Secretary of State agree that to tackle backlog , our hospital must have the resource they need to provide the right care the first time round , so that patient be give the time and support to fully and effectively recover ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question , and horrify to hear about his constituent ' s experience . this government will never brush problem under the carpet or pretend that thing be well than they be , and I know that for all the progress we have make in the past 10 month , there be still so much more to do . when we publish our 10 - year plan for health , we must ensure that quality and safety be at the heart of every patient interaction . my hon . friend be right about the need for investment . that be why we be invest £ 26 billion in the NHS and social care , and why it be so disappointing that the opposition party vote against it . on a recent visit to the breast unit of the Royal United hospital in Bath , specialist tell I about a red flag system that could help to speed up care . if someone have a red flag symptom , such as a lump or a bleed nipple , the triage team can book they straight into the breast clinic , rather than wait to see a gp . do the Secretary of State support such an approach ? I thank the hon . member for her extremely constructive contribution . that be exactly why at the heart of our plan for reform and modernisation , we be place such an emphasis on digital and technological transformation . we have such rich datum about the experience of our patient , but we be not use it effectively enough . if we use the information more effectively and efficiently , we can spot and identify risk much more proactively , and ensure that people get timely access to urgent care and treatment when they need it . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for the work that he and his team have do to reduce NHS waiting time month on month for the last six month . however , the backlog that grow under the last Conservative Government be still impact on my constituent . I have listen to countless constituent who have tell I about the upsetting impact of long waiting time for an ADHD diagnosis for child . that be have a detrimental knock - on impact on access to support , include child and adolescent mental health service and share care agreement , and there be a lack of support for adopt child . I welcome the news that waiting list have go down , but will the Secretary of State set out how his work will be target at bring down waiting list for ADHD diagnose in my constituency , to ensure consistency in diagnosis rate across trust ? I be so grateful to my hon . friend for her question , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education , who be lead cross - Government work in that area . we have a taskforce that be specifically look at the issue that my hon . friend raise , and together we be look to ensure that our education and health service be well join up to meet the need of young people . I be work with my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) and draw on his experience to look at how we can improve the health and care of care - experience young people and young adult . I hope we will have lot of progress to report on those issue . one way to reduce the backlog be to reduce or put an end to health tourism in this country , whereby people come to this country , get their treatment , and then nip back to where they come from . do the Secretary of State think it be a good idea that people enter this country should provide evidence of health insurance or be refuse entry ? when any of we travel abroad , we expect to take out travel insurance and pay for our healthcare need overseas , and that be the standard that we expect for visitor to our country . we have lot more to do to improve on that front . I deplore the comment make by the hon . Gentleman ' s party leader , who say that he do not support a taxpayer - fund NHS for the british people . he might want that debate , and the Leader of the so - call Opposition say that she want that debate , but as far as Labour be concern , we be clear about where we stand . under Labour , the NHS will always be a national health service , publicly fund and free at the point of use . NHS Reliance on Private Healthcare Providers what step he be take to reduce the reliance of the NHS on private healthcare provider . this government be take a hard - headed approach to cut waiting time . we be invest an extra £ 26 billion in our NHS , and where the independent sector have spare capacity , we will pay to get NHS patient treat fast and free at the point of use . so far , our approach to investment and reform have cut waiting list by more than 200 , 000 . perhaps the hon . Member will tell we how it be go in Scotland . the Secretary of State claim this morning on BBC Radio 4 ' s " today " programme — a most excellent programme — that Labour be the only party that can be trust with the national health service . can he confirm that no aspect of the NHS whatsoever , whether it be ownership of the estate , the provision of specialist service or any other form of privatisation , will be include in the much - promise trade deal between the UK and the United States ? no more excuse , Secretary of State : just give a direct answer to a direct question . I have say it before , and I will say it again : the NHS will be privatised over my dead body . this party found the NHS as a publicly fund public service , free at the point of use . we use the independent sector to cut waiting list , and guess what ? the SNP - lead Government in Scotland do the same thing . we have make it clear that the NHS be not up for sale in any trade deal . that be clear and unequivocal . the hon . Gentleman can sling mud as much as he like , but he can not run from the SNP ' s abysmal record on the NHS over 18 long , poor year . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . GPs be at the front door to our NHS . today , I can announce that we be support more than 1 , 000 surgery across the country to modernise their building , back by more than £ 102 million — the big public investment in GP facility for five year . follow year of neglect , this vital funding will create additional space to see more patient , boost productivity , improve patient care and enable 8 million more family doctor appointment each year . I very much welcome today ' s announcement on refurbishing 1 , 000 gp surgery across the country , because I have make it my priority to meet with as many gps as possible in my constituency . our local GPs have tell I that our health centre need more physical space in order to accommodate grow local need and facilitate the expansion of healthcare into the community . be the Secretary of State willing to meet I and my local GPs to discuss how we can well improve the physical space need for care to be bring close to people ' s home ? I would be delighted to do so . since we come into government , we have make this announcement today , put £ 889 million into general practice and agree a contract with GPs , include reform for patient access and service . we be fix the front door to the NHS , but of course that will take time . we recruit 1 , 500 more gps by the end of March , but day by day , week by week , month by month and year by year , people should see improvement in their GP service thank to Labour . I call the shadow Minister . take medicine on time be important , especially for those with condition such as diabete and epilepsy . Dr Acheson , an A & E consultant who have time - critical medicine for his own Parkinson ' s disease , understand that well . he have be run a quality improvement programme to ensure that time - critical medicine be give on time in A & E . will the Secretary of State lend that project his support and commit to review how time - critical medicine be deliver on ward ? I thank the shadow Minister for her constructive question . I would be delighted to hear more about that initiative . she be absolutely right about timely access to medicine , and through a combination of service reform and the modernisation of technology , we can assist clinician and patient to help they to manage their medication and ensure that people get timely access to medicine . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer , and I would be delighted to meet he to discuss it far . unfortunately , when Labour negotiate , Britain lose . the Government capitulate to union demand with nothing in return . it be therefore of no surprise to anyone that within month , they be back in dispute with resident doctor and the British Medical Association have announce a ballot for strike action . what will the Secretary of State do to protect patient and taxpayer ? I will tell the hon . Lady what we be not go to do : we be not go to see £ 1 . 7 billion waste on strike by resident doctor or 1 . 5 million cancel operation and appointment , which be exactly what happen on the Conservatives ' watch . within three week , we end the strike by resident doctor and we have cut waiting list by 200 , 000 as a result . as I have say to resident doctor , their pay offer will be fair and neither staff nor patient want to go back to the bad old day of strike under the Tories . they have an unwilling and incalcitrant Government under the Conservatives , who be unwilling to work with resident doctor , but we want to work with they to deliver well care for patient . I pay tribute to my 17 - year - old constituent , Arlo Lambie , who tragically die on 13 April follow the diagnosis of a grade 4 brain tumour . I know Arlo — he be a fun and bright lad who will be sadly miss . while Arlo ' s parent , Ellie and Alex , wish to put on record their thank for the " incredible and compassionate care " Arlo receive at St Mary ' s hospital on the Isle of Wight , they want to know what step the Secretary of State be take to improve nhs access to breakthrough treatment to ensure that the commercial interest of pharmaceutical company do not take precedence , so that child with brain cancer , like Arlo , be give the good possible chance to survive for long . I add my heartfelt condolence to Arlo ' s family . in September , we launch a new series of funding opportunity design to improve brain cancer research for both adult and child . we be committed to further our investment and support for high - quality brain tumour research , ensure that funding be use in the most meaningful and impactful way . hon . member will note that there be a debate on Thursday on brain tumour , and I will be attend the all - party parliamentary group on brain tumour next week . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in his statement to the House just after Christmas , the Secretary of State acknowledge that cross - party consensus be essential to deliver meaningful social care reform . the Liberal Democrats support he in that endeavour , but we still do not have a date for those cross - party meeting , so will he give we one now ? date for meeting with the commission be now a matter for the independent commission . West Cumbria , like many part of the UK , be a dental desert . in some community , urgent dental access centre have prove to be a real success at build up dental service , so will the Minister support my campaign to introduce an urgent dental access centre in west Cumbria ? the Government have launch a scheme to provide 700 , 000 urgent dental appointment . there be 57 , 500 allocate to my hon . friend ' s integrate care board . he will know that icb be responsible for commission primary care service base on the need of the population , but I know that he be a strong campaigner for his constituent . I understand that his dialogue with his ICB on this matter have be positive and constructive , and I be sure that he will continue to fly the flag . the chief executive of the Royal College of Midwives have say that the axing of the maternity safety ringfence pot would be a " wreck ball " to the effort be make to improve maternity safety . just a single or a small group of baby be spare lifelong disability would pay for the cost of that ringfenced pot many time over . I know that the Secretary of State care about this matter deeply , so will he reconsider ? the funding be still there , but as many people have urge I , include the right hon . Gentleman , we be take the decision to give more freedom and flexibility to independent care board , system and provider to determine how they can well spend NHS resource on service to improve patient care , safety and outcome . everyone will know that maternity safety be understandably a priority for this Government . we expect the NHS to deliver on maternity safety standard and will hold it to account on that . resident in Theale and across my constituency tell I time and again how hard it be to get a GP appointment , which cause distress and sometimes dangerous delay . will the Secretary of State outline how his programme of reform and investment will end the 8 am scramble for good and deliver more gp appointment for my constituent ? my hon . friend will know that we have hire 1 , 500 more gps , which will help with access . we have also renegotiate the contract , so there will be online booking system in every practice in the country , and we have change the contract to incentivise continuity of care in order to bring back the family doctor . there be a suite of reform couple with investment , which I hope will deliver for my hon . friend ' s constituent . one of the great frustration for medical professional and patient alike be when patient have appointment but do not turn up . what action will the Secretary of State take to ensure that the system penalise people who miss appointment , so that patient can get the treatment they need when they need it ? we be absolutely convinced that well use of digital tool will enable we to reduce the number of miss appointment significantly and factor in the likelihood of no - show , so that we can reduce waste and eliminate inefficiency . I understand the case for penalty that the hon . Gentleman be make , but that be not a route we want to go down until we have make those improvement and judge how effective they have be . far too many promise make by the last government — promise that care would be move out of hospital and into the community — turn out to be hollow . from speak to resident in Dartford , I know that hospital and community service have struggle to keep pace with new housing development in the constituency . I be pleased to say that later this year in Dartford we will be see an expansion of our state - of - the - art community diagnostic centre , take care close to where people live . do the Secretary of State agree that this be the start of Labour get on with finally deliver that big shift , and will he visit Dartford with I — Order . I think minister have get the message . if they have not by this stage , I would be surprised . who be answer ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that this be exactly the sort of thing that be be roll out across the country , and that we be commit to deliver care close to where his resident live . resident in Mid Bedfordshire be concerned about the standard of maintenance at our two local hospital . what action be the Government take to support our hospital in Luton and Bedford to catch up on maintenance backlog ? thank to the investment that the Chancellor commit to , we be invest in the NHS estate , which be in a sorry state . I be afraid that that be an investment that the hon . Gentleman do not vote for , and his constituent will be fume when they find out who be responsible . I recently hear from Chelsea , a constituent of mine , who raise concern about her grandmother Anna ' s care . after a delayed discharge , she be release with the wrong equipment , which sadly result in she fall out of bed and sustain a further injury . ensure that patient be discharge in a safe and timely manner be key to continue the Department ' s significant progress in cut waiting list for treatment , so what step be the Secretary of State take to promote integrate working between service to support discharge into the community for patient ? I be extremely sorry to hear about that particular case . it be really important that we support and facilitate well discharge , which be why we be reform the well care fund and look to well integrate health and social care service through our 10 - year plan . I would be delighted to hear far from my hon . friend about what we can do to improve in his area . I have a constituent who have break and rot tooth . his gp refer he to the local dental hospital , but he have be refuse treatment because the hospital say that the surgeon would take a referral only from a dentist , which my constituent and many other in Somerset just do not have . what do the Minister suggest my constituent should do to stop the pain ? as the hon . Lady know , we now have a commitment to provide 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment . those who do not have an NHS dentist can call 111 and will be prioritise . we be very clear that every integrate care board have a target within those 700 , 000 appointment , and if they be not hit that target , we will want to know why . as someone with ADHD , it be disappointing to hear from many of my constituent about difficulty in access diagnosis , medication and other therapeutic input for ADHD , and the impact on their life and livelihood as a result . whether for child or adult , wait of two , five or seven year be become the norm . what step be the Government take to make sure that individual can exercise their right to choose ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for improve support for ADHD and recognise the valuable perspective that she bring through her live experience . this Government inherit a broken nhs , with too many people face long wait for an assessment . NHS England ' s ADHD taskforce be look at how support for people with ADHD can be improve . I look forward to read its report , and I recently have a very productive meeting with the director of that taskforce . the Government have commit to provide 700 , 000 extra emergency dental appointment , but in the midland the unit of dental activity rate be just 83 % and there be no additional funding for the integrate care board . will the Minister therefore give assurance to my constituent that he will fully deliver on that promise ? I give the hon . member that assurance . we have be clear that every ICB have a target , and that be transparently publish , and we will be monitor it . I be hold regular meeting with official to check that every single ICB be on track to hit those target . if icb be not on track to hit those target , we will want to know why . early this year , I meet the Cockermouth and Maryport primary care network , which tell I about the increase challenge of support my constituent with their mental health . have the Secretary of State consider relax the additional role reimbursement scheme funding rule to allow mental health nurse to be employ wholly by a PCN , and not need to be under the employment of a local mental health trust ? that flexibility could help GP practice to intervene early and reduce referral to secondary care quickly . we have , in fact , relax the rule on arrs so that a mental health worker can be employ by the PCN . my hon . friend be absolutely right that that be an important part of step from hospital to community , but there be more we can do on that . we continue to do whatever we can to ensure that mental health and GP surgery be actively integrate . get it right First Time be a clinician - lead programme that lead on improvement and transformation . can the Secretary State give reassurance that in any restructuring of NHS England , that programme will not just be continue , but expand and still available to the devolved administration ? I be absolutely willing to give the hon . member that commitment , and I know he work on this programme in his previous role in Northern Ireland . it be deliver result , and we want to see result . we want to take the good to the rest of the NHS , and we absolutely want to work together across the United Kingdom to make sure that all our resident benefit from the programme . lung cancer cause more death in Scotland than anywhere else in the UK . in England , early detection programme be under way , and by 2028 every patient be likely to gain access to screening . in Scotland , doctor tell I that that programme be a distant dream . do my hon . friend agree that the SNP be fail scottish patient and scottish healthcare professional ? this UK Government be get on with the task of fight this deadly cancer . I agree with my hon . friend . we be make great stride in develop our cancer plan . we will be launch a national cancer plan later this year , and the target lung cancer screening programme have be particularly effective . the SNP have have a record settlement for Holyrood , and we expect the Scottish Government to deliver . if they can not , I be sure that Anas Sarwar and Jackie Baillie would be willing to take over . yesterday ' s report from the Health and Social Care Committee be explicit that we can not build an NHS fit for the future without effectively reform social care . back in January , the Secretary of State promise cross - party talk as well as Baroness Casey ' s commission . he can not outsource political leadership to Baroness Casey . political will be the stick point with the reform of social care . will he show that leadership and bring the party together to find the solution to unblock this crisis ? since we come into government , we have already take action on social care with the investment we have put in — the big expansion of carer ' s allowance and the funding for home adaptation through the disabled facility grant . now that the commission be up and run , there will be cross - party engagement , but it be an independent commission and for Baroness Casey to decide how to engage . last week , this Labour Government announce the freezing of prescription charge , put pound back in the pocket of people in Derby . I have visit pharmacy , include the Littleover pharmacy , which provide essential care and support for their community . the Conservatives underfunde pharmacy and more than 750 close across England between 2021 and 2024 . what be the Minister do to support community pharmacy so that we do not lose these vital local service ? after year of neglect , this Government have agree with the sector a record uplift to £ 3 . 1 billion for 2025 - 26 for this vitally important front door to our NHS . we be also support pharmacy to operate more efficiently , include enable hub and speak dispense between all pharmacy later this year . I be pleased to say that the legislation for that have be lay . what a contrast that be with the previous 14 year . I be also pleased to see that the National Pharmacy Association have withdraw its view on take collective action . we be move in the right direction , but there be still a lot more to do . I welcome today ' s announcement of new money for GPs ' surgery , but GPs in my constituency tell I that they can not get capital out of the integrate care board and that the Valuation Office Agency consistently undervalue the cost of rent , make future building impossible . will the Secretary of State agree to meet I , and GPs from my constituency , in order to understand the problem well ? thank to the investment that we have announce , those practice will be upgrade . I advise the hon . gentleman to engage with his local ICB . we be happy to receive representation if we can help , but let I gently point out that the investment be only possible thank to the decision make by the Chancellor , which he oppose . lady Walk NHS health centre in Sedgley be a vital hub for my constituent , provide essential service such as phlebotomy and diabetic foot care , but owe to the inaction of the conservative council this much - need community asset face closure in 2026 , leave resident without access to critical care . will my hon . friend agree to meet I to discuss urgent step to safeguard the future of the centre and ensure that Sedgley resident continue to receive the NHS service on which they rely ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who be a qualified physiotherapist , and who be right to refer to the value of community care . I would be happy to meet she to discuss the important issue that she have raise . what step will be take to support more community pharmacy that can offer a broad range of service to people in rural area , to ensure that those who be most isolated from busy town still have access to those important service ? as I say early , we be give pharmacy a record 19 % uplift to £ 3 . 1 billion , and I be pleased to confirm that of all the sector in the NHS they receive the good uplift in the 2025 - 26 settlement . we have also maintain the pharmacy access scheme , which provide £ 19 million to support pharmacy in area where there be few of they , include the rural area that the hon . Gentleman mention . pharmacy play a key role in community in rural area such as mine , but it be deeply frustrating when the supply chain break down and a pharmacy can not deliver its medicine . can the Minister tell I where we be now with the supply chain ? will she also thank all the heroic worker up and down the country who be do their very good to deliver medicine , and will she thank in particular the 400 Superdrug worker in my constituency who be try to make the supply chain work ? I be pleased to congratulate the pharmacy that be on the frontline on their hard work , and also to congratulate all those in the Department and elsewhere who ensure that our supply chain be as resilient as possible . I know that this issue concern many member and many of our constituent , and we hope to arrange a parliamentary event to ensure that member have more information . those people do a great deal of work ; we know that the issue be important , and I will update the House on other measure that we intend to take to ensure that member and their constituent be well inform . last month I begin to receive concern email from employee of the NHS trust in my constituency , say that the trust be seek to create a subsidiary company and move staff into it . they be really worried about their future right . I know how important it be to the Secretary of State that people have good employment right . what step be he take to ensure that there be full consultation with staff before the creation of subsidiary , and to prevent the creation of two - tier employment practice in the NHS with no continuity of service ? while I understand the desirability of such arrangement for NHS trust , this Government be absolutely clear that staff must be in receipt of good NHS term and condition , and must feel part of the NHS workforce and the NHS family . I would be happy to receive further representation from the hon . Lady . Counter Terrorism policing : arrest with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on the series of national security - relate arrest that take place on Saturday 3 May . protect our national security be the first duty of Government , and it be a testament to our world - lead law enforcement and intelligence service that , through their tireless commitment , so many plot against the UK have be thwart . I pay tribute to they again today for the work that they have do not just this weekend , but in recent week and month , on these important operation . the two operation that take place across multiple location this weekend be significant and complex . they be some of the large counter - state threat and counter - terrorism action that we have see in recent time , and I be sure the whole House will want to join I in thank the police , the security service and other partner agency across the country , who show their professionalism and expertise in carry out these operation to keep our country safe . right hon . and hon . member will understand that these be complex investigation . the police and the security service need time and space to be able to pursue their investigation , and our first priority must be to protect the integrity of that work so that we do not cut across those investigation and operation at a crucial time . however , these be serious matter , and the House will rightly want to remain informed . I will therefore outline as much detail as I be able , and I hope that right hon . and hon . member will understand that there be a strict limit to what I can say at this stage , give that investigation be now ongoing . I will first outline the fact around the event on Saturday 3 May . throughout the day , counter - terrorism police undertake a series of arrest relate to two separate investigation . in total , eight man be arrest by the Metropolitan police ' s Counter Terrorism Command . five man be arrest on suspicion of preparation of a terrorist act , contrary to section 5 of the Terrorism Act 2006 , as part of a proactive investigation in the area of west London , Swindon , Rochdale , Stockport and Manchester . all five man be iranian national . while four of the individual remain in police custody , the fifth have now be bail with strict condition . as part of the investigation , police officer carry out search at a number of address in the Greater Manchester , London and Swindon area . investigation continue , with search and activity still under way at multiple address across the country . the investigation relate to a suspect plot to target specific premise . Police officer have be in contact with the affected site ' s representative to make they aware and provide relevant security advice and support . however , the police have also be clear that for reason of operational security and public safety , they be not — and I be not — able to provide further information on the target at this time , and I urge member not to speculate about the site . in a separate police investigation , two man be arrest at two different address in north - west London , and one man be arrest at an address in west London . all three be arrest under the National Security Act 2023 . these three man be also iranian national , and remain in police custody . I can confirm to the House that these be the first iranian national arrest under the National Security Act . the operation to execute these eight arrest under both counter - terror and counter - state threat power — in different part of the country , and in the space of 24 hour — be intensive . they involve a range of different organisation , include different police force , counter - terror police , the National Crime Agency , and our security and intelligence service . these operation be co - ordinate through the world - lead Counter Terrorism Operations Centre , which bring together and co - ordinate the UK ' s agency , alongside the agency of our five Eyes partner , to detect and tackle national security threat . I welcome the work of the previous Government to establish ctoc in 2021 , and this Government have continue to support it and invest in it since take office . the significant point about both counter - terrorism and counter - state threat power be that they allow the police to intervene early to prevent and disrupt threat , not just respond after event have take place . this be crucial for public safety , but it also make the investigation more complex , and that be why the police need the time and space to pursue they now , so we will not be provide a run commentary on the work that they be do . however , what now follow be an incredibly complex set of investigation , involve hundred more officer carry out forensic search , collect vital evidence across different site across the country and secure witness statement , back up by the continue effort of our security and intelligence agency . this be careful , painstaking work . at this stage in the operation and investigation , it would not be appropriate for I to speculate on or comment far on the detail of these two case and the motivation behind any of the threat that be pose . however , the House will be aware that these operation come against a backdrop of complex , interconnect threat to the UK , where state threat and counter - terrorism as well as serious and organised crime be intertwine together . for 20 year , the great focus of our national security work be on terrorism — primarily from islamist terrorism , with additional threat from Northern Ireland - relate terrorism and other area — and those threat have not go away . fifteen terrorist attack have take place since 2017 , and there have be 43 late - stage disruption of terrorism plot , but alongside that we have see a serious , grow and complex challenge from state threat . last year , Sir Ken McCallum , the director general of MI5 , say that MI5 state threat investigation have increase by 48 % in the previous 12 month . he add that , since January 2022 , the police and MI5 have respond to 20 Iran - back plot present potentially lethal threat . in March , I tell Parliament that the UK be face a grow and evolve threat from malign activity carry out by a number of state . my statement in March outline the Government ' s response to the unacceptable threat that we face from the iranian state , and the step we be take to ensure that our intelligence and law enforcement agency have the tool they need to disrupt and degrade Iran ' s malign activity on UK soil . we have deliver on the commitment make . I announce that the whole of the iranian state , include the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and the Ministry of Intelligence and Security , would be place on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme . I lay the regulation to make this happen in the House on 1 April and commit to bring the scheme into force on 1 July . I trust that all member will vote in favour when those regulation be debate shortly . let I be clear : anyone in the UK who work for the iranian state must declare it or they will be commit a serious criminal offence . we will also go after the criminal network and enabler that Iran use to carry out its work . last month , the Government sanction the Foxtrot network — a network involve in violence against jewish and israeli target in Europe on behalf of the iranian regime . training and guidance on state threat activity be now be offer by Counter Terrorism police to all 45 territorial police force across the UK . the independent reviewer of terrorism and state threat legislation , Jonathan Hall KC , be ask by the Home Secretary to review the part of our counter - terrorism framework that could be apply to modern - day state threat such as those from Iran . the Home Secretary specifically ask the reviewer to look at a state threat proscription tool , so we be not hold back by limitation in apply counter - terrorism legislation to state threat . Jonathan Hall have now complete his review and will publish it shortly , and the Government will not hesitate to take action in response to Mr Hall ' s advice . as we continue to support the police and the security service in their investigation , I can also tell the House that the Home Secretary have instigate a series of security assessment that be be do or refresh in the light of the case this weekend and the further information surround they , which will ensure that the Government can respond robustly and comprehensively to any wide national security issue raise by these case . work alongside our international ally to counter state threat be central to our success . the Foreign Office be engage with our close ally to outline the disruptive action that have take place and will be consider potential future response option as the investigation progress . the Home Secretary remain in close contact with my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary , who be committed to do everything necessary to protect the country from these threat and to bring to bear all the diplomatic tool at our disposal . the Home Secretary and Ministers will provide an update on the national security position when we be able to do so , follow both these operation and investigation and the wide security assessment that be under way . the Government will not hesitate to act robustly to respond to these plot at the appropriate time , but first , we must allow the investigation to continue . our police , security and intelligence agency be the good in the world and stand ready at all time to take action to keep our country safe . I be sure they will have the support of the whole House as they continue this vital work . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for provide advance sight of his statement on this critical issue . People will have read the deeply concern report suggest that an attack may have be just hour away , and this will understandably be worry to people across the country . this statement remind we of the tragic incident that have plague our country in the past . this month mark 12 year since the death of Lee Rigby on our street , as well as eight year since the horrific Manchester Arena bombing . later this year , we will also mark the 20th anniversary of the 7 / 7 attack , which bring to London a level of destruction that many of we never think we would see in our lifetime . these act of terror , along with other cowardly act , cause untold hurt to victim and their family . as we discuss the arrest over the past weekend , we must remember the importance of keep the british public safe from those who seek to terrorise we , and I therefore pay tribute to the hard - work member of the police and intelligence service for their bravery in disrupt terrorist activity . in October , the head of MI5 say that the police and MI5 have together disrupt 43 late - stage attack plot since the Manchester bombing . we must remember that each of these case be not merely a statistic , but represent someone ' s life and someone ' s future . I commend the Minister for recognise the work of the previous Government and for acknowledge the measure that be use effectively in this incident . in turn , we will support measure that enact the National Security Act and give the Government the power need to act against malign influence on our country . turn to the incident at hand , I would be grateful if the Minister could clarify certain point . while I be thankful for today ' s statement , I hope the Government will be as transparent as possible about the detail to avoid the vacuum of information we have previously discuss in this place . while I appreciate that the Government do not want to provide a running commentary , like many other member I would be grateful if the Government could be as open as possible , give the seriousness of the arrest . as the Minister have outline , there be two separate arrest of iranian national in relation to terror offence , which have raise serious question about how their network be form and what their intention be . can the Minister provide any further information about the suspect ? for example , while we know they be iranian national , what be their immigration status ? be the state aware that these individual be in the UK , and be there any prior indication of the risk they might pose ? on the broad issue of Iran , while I understand that the Minister may not be able to comment on proscription directly , the Home Secretary do address this while in opposition . in July 2023 , she tell the Royal United Services Institute that " instead of try and fail to use counter - terror legislation to proscribe organisation like Wagner or IRGC , we will introduce a bespoke proscribing mechanism to address state - sponsor threat . " she also say at the Dispatch Box in April 2024 that Labour want " appropriately target proscription - style restriction on the operation of state - link organisation such as the IRGC . " — [ Official Report , 15 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 19 . ] however , it be only in March of this year that the Minister for Security announce the review by Jonathan Hall . do he share my concern that these mixed signal and the delay suggest a lack of prioritisation by the Government ? ultimately , we must all work together to ensure that the UK adopt the strong possible stance on national security . as cross - party co - operation be essential , I urge the Government to take every possible step to prevent these cowardly act of terror . I thank the shadow Minister for the sensible , reasonable and constructive tone of his response . he be absolutely right to draw the House ' s attention to the tragic death of Lee Rigby , the tragic bombing in Manchester and , of course , the 20th anniversary of the 7 / 7 bombing that we will be commemorate in a couple of month ' time . let I join the shadow Minister in pay tribute to all those who work tirelessly to keep our country safe . it be one of the great privilege of this particular role that we have the opportunity to serve in government , as Conservative Members will also have do , and to work closely alongside those incredibly commit member of the police and the intelligence service ; we owe they a debt of gratitude . I be also grateful for the opportunity that the shadow Minister have afford I to offer our thank for the work that be do by the previous Government , both in introduce the National Security Act 2023 , which have prove to be an incredibly valuable tool , and in create CTOC , which be deliver very significant operational value . I can absolutely give an assurance that this government , like the previous one , will continue to invest in that institution . the shadow Minister make an important point about transparency , and I can give he the reassurance that he seek . he and the House will understand that we be just a couple of day on from those arrest that take place on Saturday . the Home Secretary will provide a further update as soon as we be operationally able to do so . I give the shadow Minister a commitment that we will be as transparent as possible while of course ensure that we do not cut across live counter - terrorism operation . the shadow Minister mention proscription , and I understand why . I know that he will acknowledge — or at least I hope that he will — that on 4 March I announce a very strong suite of measure design to most effectively address the nature of the threat that we face from Iran . contain within those measure be a request from the Home Secretary for Jonathan Hall , who I know be hold in very high regard because of the experience and credibility that he have in this area , to look very carefully at the legislative framework that might enable we to more effectively proscribe state - base entity . I can confirm that Mr Hall have complete his report and that the Home Secretary and I be consider it very carefully . it will be publish shortly . I assure the shadow Minister that we will not hesitate to act if there be a requirement to bring forward further measure . the Minister will be aware that a number of iranian citizen in this country still have relative in Iran , and it be not beyond the wit of the iranian Government to use that pressure on they . in require the citizen of Iran in this country to report to our government if they be in any way connect to the iranian Government , have he take measure to protect they from expose their family to the pressure that the iranian Government may put on they ? my hon . friend raise a very important point , and I can give he the assurance he seek . the Government have be very carefully consider the matter of transnational repression . the Home Secretary and I will have more to say in the near future , but I can give he absolute assurance that we have be think carefully about these matter and take they incredibly seriously . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for update the House and for advance sight of his statement . I also add my thank to the security service and the police for all their work to keep we safe . over recent year member have be call to this Chamber to discuss plot to commit act of terror on Britain ' s street at the hand of the iranian regime — but consecutive government be yet to proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist organisation . in opposition , the now Foreign Secretary say : " the irgc be behave like a terrorist organisation and must now be proscribe as such . " early this year I ask the Minister precisely this question : do he not agree that now be surely the time ? in his early remark , he mention the review that have conclude . if now be not the time for proscription , when should the House expect a further update ? the Liberal Democrats have welcome previous sanction against those link to the iranian regime . however , I urge the Government to go a step far and look closely at whether those individual and other with link to the regime have asset here in the UK . will the Minister commit to carry out an audit , so that we know where those asset be , enable the Government to freeze they as appropriate ? the Minister be right to reference the long - stand pattern by the iranian intelligence service of target people of the jewish faith and of israeli nationality . could he update the House on any conversation he have have with the UK jewish community leadership , specifically the Community Security Trust , about threat here in the UK ? I thank the hon . Lady for , as be always the case , the very sensible and reasonable way in which she have phrase her question . I be always available to discuss these matter in more detail should she wish to do so . to her question on proscription , I hope she will acknowledge the response I give to the shadow Minister a few moment ago . we take these matter incredibly seriously . the Home Secretary and I look at they very closely in opposition , and that be precisely why the Home Secretary commission Jonathan Hall . he be the right person to look carefully at our legislative framework and make recommendation about whether we can toughen and strengthen our law in this particular area . Mr Hall have now conclude his report ; we be look very closely at it , and it will be publish shortly . as I say to the shadow Minister , we will not hesitate to bring forward further measure as require . the hon . Lady make an important and helpful point about sanction and asset , and I know it will have be hear by the Foreign Office Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , with whom we work incredibly closely . we work hard to ensure that our response be always as join up across Government as it can be . the Home Secretary work very closely with the Foreign Secretary , and I work very closely with my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln on these matter , and we will consider whether further measure need to be take . the hon . Lady ' s final point about the jewish community be a very important one . I give she and the whole House an absolute commitment that we will work tirelessly to ensure the safety of the jewish community in our country . the Home Secretary and I , and other Ministers , be in regular contact with member of that community , include the CST , which she reference and which do an excellent job . I will be meet they in the very near future , and the hon . Lady can be reassure that we will work very closely with they to ensure that they get the protection that they need and deserve , and the assurance that they rightly want . I pay tribute to the bravery and professionalism of the counter - terrorist specialist firearm officer who take part in the arrest of an iranian national in Rochdale over the weekend . it be a reminder of not only the constant threat that we face , but the intelligence and police service ' daily work to keep we all safe . do the Minister agree that in this week of the 80th anniversary of VE Day , it be a reminder too that Britain be at war with a modern enemy : the fascism of islamist extremism and state - sponsor terrorism ? the message should go out loud and clear that my town , our country and this House will never surrender to such terrorism or to its ideology . my hon . friend make a powerful and important point . he be absolutely right that the Government will never drop their guard to the threat that we undoubtedly face in counter terrorism , whether the specific threat around islamist extremism or state threat . we take these matter incredibly seriously , and we will work to ensure that all our security service and police force have the resource and tool they need to address the threat we face . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I thank the Minister for his statement . no one in the House should be in any doubt about the threat that Iran pose to we and our national security . how confident be he that its designation in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme will be effective ? be he look to go far ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for the work she do as Chair of the Select Committee . FIRS be an important measure , which we inherit from the previous Government , from the National Security and Investment Act 2021 . I think it be the right approach and that it will deliver significant operational benefit , but we must also look at these matter in the round , so that it do not sit in isolation ; it have to be accompany by a range of other measure , not least those that I announce on 4 March . the Government will remain flexible and agile , and if we think that there be a need for further action , we will not hesitate to take it . the Joint Committee on Human Rights , of which I be a member , be currently undertake an inquiry on transnational repression . we have ream of evidence of Iran oppress and take action against people of iranian heritage here in the UK . I hear what the Minister say about proscription , and I have ask many time for proscription of the irgc , as it be certainly one of the body in Iran that be responsible for transnational repression . will he outline what will happen after the publication of Jonathan Hall ' s review ? what will the timetable be ? we be keen to see swift action in this area . I be look forward — if that be the right way to describe it — to give evidence to my hon . friend ' s Committee in the near future . as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , I confirm that the Government have do a lot of work look at the serious but complicated issue of transnational repression . the Government will have more to say about this in the near future . I assure my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) that we take these matter incredibly seriously . we have progress at pace the work that we inherit from the previous Government . these be not simple matter ; they require a whole - system approach , and we be work carefully on they across government through the defend democracy taskforce . I assure the House that the Home Secretary and I will have more to say in the near future . I call the Father of the House . do we know whether these man enter the country illegally or legally ? obviously , people who enter the country legally be subject to extraordinarily sophisticated surveillance at our airport and port , but for people who enter illegally there be no surveillance at all . it be madness that thousand be enter our country with no check at all . be this not a good opportunity to seek a derogation from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and say that , because of our national security , we should have the right to detain these people , arrest they and rapidly deport they ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the long - stand experience he bring to the House . he will understand , for the reason that I have outline , that there be strict limitation on what Ministers can say at this point , because it would be unforgivable to cut across a live counter - terrorism investigation . the police have set out the iranian nationality of those arrest , and at this moment they need the time to pursue various line of inquiry and investigation . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman and other hon . member will understand that , as a consequence , it would be wrong for minister to provide a running commentary on individual ’ detail at this stage . as member would expect , a wide range of security assessment be under way . the Home Secretary will set out further detail in due course . I thank the Minister for his statement and join he in thank our security service and police for their incredible work and dedication . this be a sobering reminder of the threat pose by the iranian regime here in the UK and reinforce the need to proscribe Iran ' s terror army , the irgc . we continue to hear disturb report of charity in the UK be use as vehicle for the funding and organisation of terrorism . will the Minister set out what step be be take to stop that organisation , and will he meet I to far discuss those concern ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his work in this area . he be absolutely right to make the point about the grave threat . I hope that he will have see the suite of new measure that the Government bring forward on 4 March , which will make a significant difference and give we additional resource and capability to address the threat . I can assure he that we take these matter incredibly seriously . as I mention , a series of security assessment be under way . the Home Secretary will report back to the House on those in due course , but I will be happy to meet he to discuss those matter far . I thank the Minister for what he say about the work of the previous Government and join he in commend the work of our security service and police in keep we safe . recent event be a reminder of the destabilising role that Iran play , with 20 Iran - back plot foil in the UK in just the past few year . this state sponsor of terrorism can not be allow to have nuclear weapon . on that topic , may I urge the Government to push our european ally to jointly trigger snapback sanction this year as part of a comprehensive strategy to put maximum pressure on the iranian regime ? may I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question and for the work he do as Prime Minister ? he know well than most the extraordinary capability that the man and woman who serve in our intelligence and police force have and the commitment that they make to our country . he make important point . he be completely right about the number of state - sponsor plot . that be totally unacceptable , and this Government , as be the case with the previous Government , be absolutely clear that we will do everything that we can to stand against they . he make an important point about work closely with our colleague and partner in Europe and internationally . he be right ; that be the approach that we will adopt and colleague in the Foreign Office be think carefully about what more we can do in that area . may I thank the Minister for his statement and join he in pay tribute to the security service that keep we all safe ? as he know , the UK be under constant cyber - attack from state , include Iran . will he update the House on what work the Home Office be do to protect the UK from ransomware attack ? I be grateful to my hon . friend because he raise an important point about cyber - attack , which we face , along with country around the world . I hope he know that the Home Office have recently conclude a consultation on new , world - lead measure against ransomware , which we believe will make a material difference to the nature of the threat we face . essentially , we want to smash the business model of those cyber - criminal , many of whom operate out of Russia , target UK business . the measure would be good for both our national security and our economic prosperity . I assure my hon . friend that we be progress they at pace . I be alarmed to hear that one of the incident take place in my constituency of Cheadle . it be chilling to think that a regime with such a shocking record of international aggression could have connection into our neighbourhood . it just so happen that I meet the jewish community in Cheadle this weekend to talk through their issue and concern . at the meeting , I hear how fearful they be of the threat of violence and terrorism from the iranian regime , so will the Minister commit to provide a timeline for produce the report on the irgc and for when we will finally proscribe that organisation ? the hon . member be right about the chilling effect of these arrest , which also underline the nature of the threat not be specific to any one part of the country . he press I on the point I make early about proscription . Jonathan Hall be , as I have say previously from the Dispatch Box , someone of great credibility and authority . he be ask by the Home Secretary to look carefully at our legislative framework and to assess whether we need strong power in order to proscribe state - back threat . Mr Hall have work at pace and have now submit his report to the Home Secretary and I . the report will be publish shortly and , as I have say , the Government will respond in due course . I know that the Home Secretary will update the House at the early available moment . the Security Minister will know that whenever there be report of hostile act by an iranian national in this country , the jewish community in Britain have reason to be fearful , so can he update the House on the step the Government be take to guarantee the safety of jewish people throughout the UK ? I can give my hon . friend a categorical assurance that this Government will work incredibly closely with the jewish community , as do the previous Government , to provide they with the assurance that they rightly want and deserve . it be completely unacceptable that any sector of our community could be threaten , whether by terrorism or by a state - base threat . the Home Secretary and I , and other Ministers , be in regular contact with the Community Security Trust and a range of other organisation from the jewish community , and we work tirelessly to ensure that they not only be safe but feel safe . in the fullness of time , it will undoubtedly be reveal what the target of these terrorist plot be go to be . if it turn out that one of they be again the broadcaster Iran International , which have to relocate to Washington temporarily in 2023 , will the Minister undertake to speak with his Foreign Office colleague about the importance of impress on the Trump Administration that these repressive regime fear free broadcasting agency , and that that be why the Trump Administration should not be close down Radio Free Europe , Radio Liberty or indeed Voice of America itself ? the right hon . Gentleman make a sage point , as he always do , and he be absolutely right . the UK have an incredibly important relationship with the United States , and it be a relationship that we invest significantly in . that be not only in our national interest but in the national interest of the United States and other five Eyes partner . I can give he an assurance that the question he have just raise will be hear by colleague . indicate assent . I see the Foreign Office Minister nod . I be keen to work closely with the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) and draw on his experience in this area , and I agree with the thrust of the point he have make . I thank the Minister for come here with this statement . may I also put on record my thank and the thank of the people of Harlow to the police and security service for the work they do keep we all safe ? in his statement the Minister make reference to work with ally . do he agree that the conversation he have with our ally , both in Europe and America , be key to tackle this problem proactively and ensure that life be save ? first , I thank my hon . friend for his point about our police force , who do a very difficult job . they do it incredibly well and it be deeply impressive to see their work over the course of the weekend . he also make an important point about international co - operation . the Home Secretary and I , and other Ministers across Government , completely understand the importance of invest in these relationship with our international ally . these be matter that we be not go to solve unilaterally on our own . we need to co - operate and collaborate with a range of international partner in Europe , in North America and far afield , and I assure he that that will be the approach of this Government . I , too , pay tribute to the brilliance of our security force . the Minister have pay tribute to the quality of advice from Jonathan Hall KC , the independent reviewer of terrorism , and say that he will indeed listen to that advice . well , that same Jonathan Hall KC last autumn advise that in serious incident involve terror such as these , it would be well to put out more information soon in order to prevent misinformation . in order to prevent misinformation , surely the Minister should tell we — and the british people , who want to know — how long these iranian national have be in this country and what their immigration status be . that be precisely why I make the point to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , about the importance of transparency . it be precisely why the Government have proactively bring forward a statement to the House to give member the opportunity to ask question , and why I give a commitment early that the Home Secretary will update the House when we be operationally able to do so . I know the hon . Member understand the importance of not cut across a live police terrorism operation . I hope he will acknowledge that we take these matter incredibly seriously and that we bring forward a range of measure in March that go a long way to address the nature of the threat we face . I hope he acknowledge the serious way we always take these matter , but I be happy to discuss they with he outside the Chamber should he wish to do so . I also pay tribute to our security and intelligence service in foil what appear to be a highly co - ordinate plot . the involvement of iranian national point to a potential state - back threat . can the Minister assure I and my constituent that our intelligence and legal framework be keep pace with the grow sophistication of hostile activity on british soil ? I can assure my hon . friend that our intelligence and legal framework have the necessary resource to ensure that we be well prepared to face the nature of the threat that we undoubtably face . I also say to he that the Home Secretary , the Prime Minister and Ministers across Government will not hesitate to act should there be a requirement to bring forward further measure . that be precisely why the Home Secretary ask Mr Hall to look at the legislative framework and why we be carefully consider his recommendation . but I absolutely give he the assurance that should there be a need to bring forward further power , we will not hesitate to do so . it be clear that the issue we see from Iran and its proxy be share across many european country . the Minister raise the recent Government sanction on the Foxtrot network . however , the EU have just reject the PM ' s bid to access the bloc ' s crime and migration database . do the Minister see that as an issue that would stop we thwart future threat from Iran and its proxy ? let I respond to the hon . member in this way : as I have say previously , while there be certain measure we could put in place in this country , and of course we will , it be imperative that we co - operate closely with our ally . the nature of the relationship that we have with our ally in Europe be fundamentally important in this regard . I can give he an assurance that Foreign Office Ministers — the Foreign Secretary and the Minister — will be look closely at what have happen over previous day , talk to our ally and take every opportunity to ensure we organise collectively to ensure that those state who think they can behave in an aggressive way towards this and other country understand that there will be very severe consequence for their action . do the Minister agree that part of the problem with the joint comprehensive plan of action that the US withdraw from in 2018 be that it be not comprehensive enough in that it completely ignore the action of Iran through proxy group and terror cell ? when he and his colleague be discuss the way forward with the US Administration , particularly in relation to the Witkoff talk , will he ensure that terrorism be cover as part of any agreement that be patch ? that be an important point that the Minister and I will consider far , but I can give the right hon . member an assurance about our understanding , and about the priority that we attach to the international dynamic in all this . he will understand , as a former Minister and as someone who have be around a long time , that international relation require we to work as collaboratively as we can with our partner . we be invest heavily in ensure that our special relationship continue to deliver for our country and for other five Eyes partner . his point be well make ; we have hear they , and will consider they far . I assure he that we take these matter very seriously , and will work across Government to address the issue that he raise . I join the Minister in pay tribute to our security service and their endeavour to keep we all safe . do he agree that the issue of how these suspect get into the United Kingdom in the first place be crucial ? have he address with the Irish Republic ' s Government the issue of people who come here not directly , but under the radar , via Dublin , and who then go into Northern Ireland and to mainland GB ? the Prime Minister have say that border security be national security , so the hon . Member make an important point . that be precisely why I confirm early that , as a consequence of recent event , the Home Secretary be look very carefully , along with other Home Office Ministers , at a number of area . at the early available opportunity , she will come back to the House to provide an update . five week ago , I visit Iran International at its London location . it tell I that its journalist face daily threat from Iran , as do those who work for the BBC Persian service . give that it be just three day after World Press Freedom Day , will the Minister reiterate this Government ' s determination to defend medium freedom at home as well as abroad , and will he consider accept an invitation to visit Iran International , to reinforce that message ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , who be a long - stand champion of journalism and journalist ; he make some very important point . I know that the Minister have recently meet BBC persian journalist , and between we , we will look carefully at the invitation that the right hon . Gentleman have extend . let I be crystal clear that the threat we have see in recent time to Iran International be completely unacceptable . this government , like the previous Government , will do everything to ensure that free speech in this country be not materially affect by those outwith the country who wish to silence other . we take these matter incredibly seriously . in response to an early question , I say that the Government will have more to say about transnational repression in due course , and that very much include such matter as the right hon . Gentleman raise . I be go to try again , because although I appreciate that the Security Minister have to be very careful about specific aspect of this case , the House and the country need to know whether the iranian national come into the UK illegally or on a legal migration route . the hon . Lady be a very experienced member , so I hope she can understand why it would be wrong of I , as the Security Minister , to cut across a live police terrorism investigation . minister should not get in front or in the way of ongoing proceeding . I hope she will acknowledge the point I make about the complexity of the ongoing investigation . there be still property around the country be search by police officer . I have come here to give a statement and update the House with precisely the information that it be appropriate to provide . I have also give a very clear commitment that at the early available opportunity when it be operationally appropriate to do so , the Home Secretary will come to this place and give more detail . the Minister say in his statement that these be " some of the large counter - state threat and counter - terrorism action that we have see in recent time " . if that be the case , I wonder why the iranian ambassador have not be summon to the Foreign Office ; the Minister mention liaise with the Foreign Secretary . the issue of immigration status be not a police or counter - terrorism operational matter ; it be a visa issue . be any of these iranian national dual national ? be they here on work or student visa , and be those visa issue at post , or somewhere else around the world , through another embassy or consulate ? we have have incident in this country in which there have be a vacuum of information , and when the Government have not be prepare to fill that vacuum with truth and fact , other who want to stir up trouble in our nation have fill it instead . I be always grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the experience that he bring on these important matter . he be right to say that this be a significant operation that require considerable co - ordination across the weekend , and as I have explain , it be ongoing . it be very important that I do not in any way prejudice the inquiry , but I understand why he have make his point in the way that he have . there have be very close contact between the Home Secretary and the Foreign Secretary on these matter , and the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs ( Mr Falconer ) , who be sit on the Front Bench , will meet the iranian ambassador to discuss these matter . the Prime Minister say that border security be national security , but how can there be national security if there be no border check on illegal immigrant at the international frontier between the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland ? how do we get security if we refuse to carry out those fundamental check ? that be precisely why I reference the Prime Minister ' s comment about the importance of border security , and border security be national security , and why I say that the Home Secretary and the immigration Minister be look carefully at what happen over the weekend , as well as at other incident . we will not hesitate to act where there be a requirement to do so , and as I have say , the Home Secretary will update the House far on these matter . I thank the Minister for come to the House with his statement today . I do not want to probe the " out of bound " box that he have rightly place around a live investigation , so I have choose the word of this question carefully : do he know the immigration status of the iranian national who be arrest ? I pay tribute to the hon . member for his service in our armed force before come to this House . I hope that , in part because of that background , he will understand that the one thing I be not go to do be make thing more difficult for those who serve in and out of uniform , and do a very difficult job . the Home Secretary and I know what we need to know , but we will not get into give a run commentary . I have make a very clear commitment that the Home Secretary will come back at the early available opportunity and respond to the question that hon . member wish to put to she . we be not go to cut across a live police operation — Conservative Members and those from around the House would rightly never forgive we for do so — but we be commit to provide as much information as we can at a point when that do not compromise ongoing operation . I thank the Minister very much for his wise , strong , confident word — word that I think all member of the House wish to hear in relation to this investigation . in all my time in this Chamber , which be come up to 15 year , I have be a supporter of the iranian diaspora in the United Kingdom — those people who flee Iran because of threat to their life . some get out by the skin of their tooth . they have genuine fear and concern about what be happen , and those concern have be express by member of the iranian diaspora who have be under attack in France — Paris be one example — and in Sweden . during the last election , the iranian diaspora kindly offer support to I for my election campaign , which I take advantage of , as other do . member of that diaspora in Northern Ireland feel threatened , just like those on the mainland . offer the support and protection that they need will involve partnership with the Garda S í och á na in the Republic of Ireland , as the threat could come from beyond Northern Ireland ; it could potentially come from the Republic of Ireland . will the Minister give a commitment on that to I , my constituent , and those who be commit to a change of regime in Iran but can not return , because the regime there be so decadent , violent and evil ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , as always . he have a long track record of stand up for those who have be persecute because of their ethnicity or religion , and he raise a very important point about the iranian diaspora in this country . that be precisely why this Government have progress an important piece of work on transnational repression . we will work together closely through the defend democracy taskforce to ensure that all the necessary protection be in place for those individual or community who feel threatened . my advice to anybody who feel threaten be to report that to the police . I recently write to all chief constable to ensure that the training available for frontline officer be take up by police force right around the country . it be very important that officer on the beat have the necessary understanding of the nature of the threat that many diaspora community may face . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for championing not only his constituency but the iranian diaspora , and I give he the same commitment that I have give to other right hon . and hon . member : this Government will work tirelessly to ensure that the diaspora be protect . Trade Negotiations before I call the Minister to make his statement , can I say how disappointing it be to see detail of the India trade deal release to the medium a few hour ago , before the Minister come to this House ? I wish to make a statement on the progress that this Government have make towards a UK - India trade deal . I be delighted to inform the House that we have now conclude negotiation on a comprehensive , modern agreement with the fast - grow economy in the G20 . hon . member will no doubt be aware that India be expect to be the third - large economy in the world by 2028 . by the end of this decade , it will be home to an estimate 60 million middle - class consumer , and with trade between the United Kingdom and India already stand at north of £ 43 billion , we know that this powerhouse economy be and will remain a hugely important market for british business . while past government have fail to negotiate a deal with India , this Government have today succeed . we have broker the most generous trade deal ever agree by India in its history . from day one of this deal come into force , it will make trade between our country cheap , easy and quick . UK exporter will benefit from much low tariff across a whole host of sector , include those that we be prioritise in our industrial strategy . it mean simplify custom process for business in advanced manufacturing and aerospace , in the food and beverage sector , and in the creative sector , which will benefit from improved copyright protection . for our world - lead financial and professional service company , this deal lock in access to India ' s fast - grow market . it will ensure that UK bank and finance company be place on an equal footing with indian supplier , and it encourage the recognition of professional qualification , so that UK and indian firm can access the right talent at the right time , whether they be in Mumbai or Manchester . this deal will unlock new opportunity for business in every part of the United Kingdom , include our advanced manufacturing company in the north - east , our iconic scottish whisky brand and our car plant in the west midland . in all , we will have secure over £ 400 million in tariff reduction in the first year alone , double to around £ 900 million after just 10 year . crucially , the deal we have negotiate will provide bespoke support for small and medium - sized enterprise to enter the indian market , alongside a firm commitment from India to address the trade barrier that those business face . since take office , we have commit to hardwire the view and interest of small business into everything we do , and the deal we have negotiate be evidence of that . for the very first time , british business will have guarantee access to India ' s vast procurement market , cover good , service and construction . they will be able to bid for approximately 40 , 000 tender worth at least £ 38 billion a year . the deal that we have just get over the line be further proof that this Government be use the power of international trade and investment to raise living standard here at home . indeed , expert predict that it will boost our bilateral trade by some £ 25 . 5 billion . it be also project to increase UK wage by £ 2 . 2 billion each year , while add nearly £ 5 billion to our gdp over the long run . we have do all that while defend stoutly the UK ' s national interest . we have broker a deal that protect our NHS and uphold our high food standard . it ensure that our point - base immigration system remain unaffected . the deal demonstrate our commitment to both worker and business , stay true to our labour value while contribute to our primary mission of economic growth . I recognise that this House will need time to scrutinise the deal before the ratification process . my Department will follow the process set out in the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 in share the finalise treaty text with hon . member . the House will , of course , have the opportunity to scrutinise any legislation associate with its implementation . this deal send a powerful message about the UK and India ' s share commitment to free , fair and open trade . the UK - India relationship have deep , endure root , exemplify by the live bridge of 1 . 9 million people of indian heritage live in the United Kingdom . while I do not personally lament that the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) be no long the UK ' s Prime Minister , it would be wholly wrong of I not to acknowledge his significant achievement as the first british - indian Prime Minister , which be a testament not just to his own ability but to the close bond that unite our two nation . the Government be proud to back open market and free trade . we recognise that Britain have always be an open , outward - look trading nation , and we believe that open market and free trade be fundamental building block with which the UK can secure its opportunity and prosperity at home and abroad . through our upcoming trade strategy , we will set out our ambition to engage with more industrial giant , like India , to ramp up trade and investment over the come month and year . today , though , as close trading partner and as friend , I be proud that we have secure this deal with India . it be a deal that afford UK business certainty and stability during a time of global uncertainty and instability , and a deal that will give british business access to one of our big market abroad , while raise wage and drive growth here at home . that be what this deal deliver , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . this deal mark a landmark moment for the UK and its global trading relationship because it be the large trade deal secure by this country . I be therefore shocked that the Minister do not acknowledge that progression of the deal be possible only thank to our Brexit freedom . after all , the European Union do not have a free trade agreement with India — something the Minister must bear in mind as he follow the order of the Prime Minister on the EU reset . we have not see the minutia of the detail in the agreement that the Government be announce today , so we will reserve our full judgment on the deal until we have have the opportunity to scrutinise it at length . however , I will take this opportunity to highlight some question . first , what concession do the Government make that their predecessor be not willing to make to get the deal over the line ? secondly , I be shock that a very significant piece of information be leave out of the Minister ' s statement today — one that we only find out from the indian Government ' s statement . why do indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi make a point of announce the agreement of a double contribution convention between India and the UK , while the Minister have not even make a pass reference to it today in his statement or his press release ? a double contribution convention will come at a significant cost to the british taxpayer and british business . worker who enter the UK under such convention be eligible to only pay national insurance contribution in their home country — in this case , India . again , we only know from the indian Government ' s press release that the exemption for national insurance contribution for indian worker will be for three year . do that mean that indian worker currently in Britain will get a refund from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , or do it mean that new indian worker will not pay any contribution in the first place ? do the Exchequer effectively give away a massive subsidy to get this trade deal over the line ? will it really be 20 % cheap for business in the UK to hire indian worker than british worker ? will the convention apply only to second employee of indian company , or will it apply more broadly to all indian worker in the UK , and if so , from when ? how many additional work visa will be issue to indian worker under this agreement ? will the convention really mean that , for example , an Indian - own restaurant chain in the UK could pay no national insurance here for its chef , while the british pub next door pay full national insurance for its curry chef ? will this deal reduce the incentive for the indian millionaire who be currently flee the UK for tax reason — a subset of the many millionaire who be do the same — to do so ? can the Minister outline what the cost of this agreement be to the Treasury ? how many british national do the Government anticipate will make use of the reciprocal right in India ? I fear that when it come to british worker , we have go from two - tier Keir to two - tier - taxis Keir . this government be literally put up taxis for british worker while cut they for indian worker . I be aware that India have express concern about the UK become a rule - taker to the EU , so will the Minister confirm what commitment and assurance he make on that matter during the negotiation ? while Conservative Members will never talk down the benefit of free trade , agreement such as this one have to be make on fair term for both party . as it stand , this deal look like it be subsidise indian labour while undercut british worker . will the Government back our domestic market by scrap their job tax ? I look forward to hear from the Minister a reply that actually answer these question . if he choose — as he sometimes do — to bat away genuine question from the Dispatch Box , could he follow up in writing ? I thank the hon . Lady for her recognition that this be a landmark deal , although I have to say that it be not her most generous welcome of a deal that the previous Government work for many month to try to secure — it be right to recognise that , albeit they do not manage to close the most difficult remain issue . I seem to remember that it be a former leader of the Conservative party , the former Member for Witney , who promise that his party would stop " bang on about Europe " . alas , that advice do not seem to have be take in the Conservatives ' approach to today ' s landmark agreement with India . the hon . Lady inquire how we get the deal do when our predecessor fail to do so . respectfully , I would say that it be through a process of patient , pragmatic and painstaking work — a very different approach from the kind of Instagram diplomacy that all too often characterise the approach of past Trade Secretaries and Trade Ministers . that allow we , with the political leadership show by the Secretary of State , to close significant chapter on good and service . it allow we to then reach a consider judgment that mean that , with stability of political leadership and clarity of ministerial direction , we could secure concession from the Indians and conclude the agreement in a way that elude our predecessor . the hon . Lady ask specifically about the double contribution convention . I can assure she that that reciprocal agreement will benefit UK worker and their employer as the opportunity within India expand . India will have one of the world ' s large middle class in the come decade . the agreement will cover only a specific and limited group of indian businesspeople for a period of three year . it be worth recognise that the Indians have other arrangement in place that extend long than that . the worker will be require to pay their immigration health surcharge to the national health service , so the convention do not affect NHS funding . the DCC that we have agree be reciprocal and will benefit UK worker in India as well . India be home to the fast growth rate in the G20 , so the opportunity here for the United Kingdom be only likely to grow over time . the agreement be make in the context of the wide deal , which will bring billion into the UK economy . I can assure the hon . Lady that the United Kingdom already have social security agreement in place with a range of country and trading bloc , include the European Union and the United States . on the broad immigration issue that the hon . Lady raise , I can assure she that the deal do not affect the point - base system . the point - base system be not affect by the agreement that we strike today . the deal only cover business mobility , which be different from immigration , as it be about travel for specific and temporary business purpose . as a result , UK business will benefit from additional business mobility route support they as they expand into India . student visa remain off the table . I hope that that give some clarity to the hon . Lady . I be grateful for her recognition that it be a landmark deal . it be right to recognise that the Conservatives seek to secure this deal , and I hope that in the course of the conversation that we will have across this Dispatch Box today , we will be able to recognise that this represent a very significant win for the United Kingdom in very challenging time for trade . the conclusion of the negotiation on this free trade agreement be a major win for Scotland ' s economy and for my Livingston constituency in particular , give that we bottle Glenmorangie whisky and bake Paterson ' s shortbread . we also have a strong and grow digital service sector , particularly with small and medium - sized enterprise . can the Minister say a bit more about how this deal will help those business , too ? I thank my hon . friend and fellow Scottish Member of Parliament . one of the commitment that we make when we be both elect — in my case , re - elected — to the House back in July be that we would seek to ensure a Labour Government deliver for Scotland . the cut that we have secure in whisky tariff for the huge and significant market in India be a clear and tangible example of the difference we be make . he do not need to take my word for it . these be the word of Mark Kent , the chief executive of the Scotch Whisky Association : " the UK - India free trade agreement be a once in a generation deal and a landmark moment for Scotch Whisky export to the world ' s large whisky market . it show that the UK government be make significant progress towards achieve its growth mission , and the Scotch Whisky industry look forward to work with the UK and indian government in the month ahead to implement the deal " . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . at a time when Donald Trump be fuel global instability through protectionism , international co - operation be more important than ever . a UK - India trade deal be a positive step , and we look forward to see the detail of the deal . Parliament must be able to scrutinise the detail carefully , especially the propose change to national insurance contribution . when Labour be in opposition , it agree with the Liberal Democrats that there should be a vote on trade deal . both my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) and I have make the Lib Dem position clear : there should be proper scrutiny and a vote on a trade deal . the Government ' s own export Minister , the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , say that the current ratification process be " not fit for purpose " , and he be right . do the Minister of State agree that deny a vote not only contradict Labour party policy , but set a dangerous precedent , especially ahead of any future US deal ? can he explain the Government ' s massive u - turn since enter government ? finally , will the Government push for a new UK - EU custom union — the fast way to boost our economy — at this month ' s political summit ? the hon . Gentleman have refer to our attempt to reset our trading relationship with Europe . the red line that be set out in our manifesto be very clear , but within those red line we be endeavour to broaden and deepen an important trading relationship that represent about 46 % of the UK ' s trade . as for the hon . Gentleman ' s broad observation that the agreement we have reach today be , as it be , a pretty bright - shine light in what be a somewhat dark sky for international trade , I agree with he . it be , hopefully , a sign of further deal to come and of a commitment to take forward deal that be mutually beneficial , in this case for the Indians and also for the United Kingdom . when it come to the wide question of how the deal will be scrutinise , the hon . Gentleman be right to recognise that today ' s telephone conversation with Prime Minister Modi be just the start of the process . a press release have be publish , along with a list of the top benefit , but we hope to publish a paper today set out in more detail what have be agree — the conclusion summary paper — and there will then be a process move towards signature and a legal scrub of the text . however , as the Prime Minister make clear a few day ago , we will follow the process set out in the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 . last week I have the pleasure of meet representative of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry when they come here with my old friend Piyush Goyal . I congratulate the Minister and his official , as well as FICCI and the India Global Forum — under the leadership of Manoj Ladwa — and , indeed , everyone who have spend so many year lay the groundwork for this agreement . the Minister recognise the doubling of India ' s service and it export over the last decade and the benefit that we can gain from engagement and co - operation in respect of the service and knowledge economy , but I think it important for he to outline far what the benefit of the double contribution convention on national insurance will be , and how they will facilitate that engagement and co - operation for our worker in India . I thank my hon . friend for his generous word of congratulation . I know that the bilateral relationship between the United Kingdom and India have be a constant feature of his long service in the House , and a particular focus of his parliamentary work . he be right to recognise , in the context of both digital service and the service sector more widely , the huge potential mutual benefit for the United Kingdom and for India work together , and he be right to recognise the broad and deep relationship between our two country — as I have say , 1 . 9 million people with indian heritage live in the United Kingdom — but , as his question suggest , it be also right to recognise quite how dynamic the indian economy be today . it have the high growth rate in the G20 , which be expect to remain above 6 % over at least the next five year . give that our be a largely service - base economy , notwithstanding our excellence in advanced manufacturing , the opportunity for UK service exporter be huge and grow . I welcome the indian trade deal , but will the Minister now switch his attention to the other side of the Atlantic , and ask Lord Mandelson to explain to the United States Administration that tariff on film be unworkable and impossible to implement , and would do real damage to the film industry not just in the UK but in the United States ? I pay tribute to the right hon . Gentleman ' s long - stand interest in matter relate to culture , medium and sport and to the creative industry more generally . we be grateful for the expertise and experience that he bring to the House on these issue . it would be one of the first occasion on which I tell Lord Mandelson to do anything in many decade of our work together , but I will ensure that that be duly register , not only in the record of this House but directly to our distinguished ambassador in Washington . it should also be place on record that the film sector be a key part of the UK ' s world - class creative industry — and we be absolutely committed to ensure that those sector continue to thrive and create good job — and that the UK have a strong and balanced trading relationship with the United States , worth £ 315 billion . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his challenge to I to reach out directly to Lord Mandelson in respect of what we have read in the newspaper in the last couple of day , and I give he my word that I will ensure that Lord Mandelson be fully aware of the issue . amid much fanfare as usual , the former Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , announce that he would have a UK - India trade deal sign " by Diwali " — but very cunningly , he never mention which Diwali , so we be leave wait for year . other conservative Prime Ministers make similarly empty promise , which be why I particularly commend the Minister , the Business and Trade Secretary , their official and the Labour Government for have finally conclude this free trade agreement . I look forward to this mutually beneficial agreement be formally sign . can the Minister confirm that this landmark UK - India FTA will increase bilateral trade by £ 26 billion , increase UK gdp by £ 4 . 8 billion , boost wage by £ 2 billion year in , year out , and lead to many job in my Slough constituency and for people across both nation ? my hon . friend seem to know my brief well than I do . in all seriousness , it be right to place on record our gratitude to the Prime Minister for his sterling work in get this deal over the line . I also pay generous tribute to the Business and Trade Secretary , who have do an immense amount of work and whose visit to India in February with Minister Goyal unlock a number of key issue that have prove to be stick point for the previous Administration , and to official at the Department for Business and Trade — both in London and , indeed , in India — who have work tirelessly to secure this deal . on its economic significance , I concur with the point that India be a huge and dynamic economy , but it be also right to recognise that we sign the right deal for the United Kingdom . this be the good deal that India have ever agree to . it be expect to increase bilateral trade by about £ 25 . 5 billion and raise UK gdp , but we have manage to secure a deal more timeously than be anticipate and , frankly , we get a well deal than many expect . the Indian Government have say that this deal will mean that " immense opportunity for talented and skilled indian youth will open up in the UK . " will the Minister please confirm that we have not sign a youth mobility scheme with India before his Government have agree to one with the EU ? he say that we have contribution agreement with the EU and the USA , but my understanding be that we have sign double contribution convention with only Chile , Japan and South Korea . could he please clarify that ? what I say be that we have social security agreement with a range of country , include the USA and with the EU . the hon . Lady ask whether a new point - base system be be introduce , and I can assure she that that be not the case . the deal cover only business mobility , and the UK have not give away visa or create new route . exist business mobility route have be expand for highly skilled and experienced professional to cover additional sector , but to qualify for these route professional must demonstrate that they meet the strict criterion for professional experience and qualification . do the Minister agree that by secure the good deal that India have ever agree , the Government have put UK business in an incredible position to take advantage of the rapidly grow economy ? India be quite simply the fast grow economy in the G20 , and be expect to be the third large economy in the world by 2028 . if we be choose country that we would wish to do deal with , India would be pretty high up the list . by 2030 , India will be home to an estimate 60 million middle - class consumer , whose number be project to grow to a quarter of a billion by 2050 , and the demand for import be on course to top £ 1 . 4 trillion by 2035 . for those of we who have Scotch whisky industry interest in our constituency , it be very welcome news that apparently globalisation be not dead after all . the Minister speak about this be a deal that open door , but what assistance will be give to british company , especially sme , to ensure that they be able to maximise the benefit they can derive from trade in this very important market ? as my statement seek to make clear , there will be specific provision for sme as part of this deal , because we recognise that the huge indian market can often be a challenge for business that do not have the capability of large business . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his generous word about the Scotch whisky industry . from the quote that we be receive this afternoon from Diageo , Chivas and the Scotch Whisky Association , he be very much on all four with the industry in recognise that this be a quite extraordinary deal for Scotch whisky . I congratulate the Minister on secure the UK ' s large trade deal with the G20 ' s fast grow economy . the indian high commission recently appoint Newcastle ' s very first honorary consul general , and we will have much to discuss when we meet , because there be so much in this deal to look at and scrutinise . I thank the Minister for specifically mention advanced manufacturing in the north - east as well as small and medium - sized business everywhere . could he say a little more about how small business in the north - east can secure and access the opportunity bring forward by this deal ? I be think particularly of our fantastic digital sector and our great health sector . for both the digital sector and the healthcare sector , the deal offer significant opportunity in a huge and expand market in India . it will deliver a degree of certainty as well as significant tariff reduction across a range of sector , and it also afford we the opportunity to think long - term . we want to support the advanced manufacturer with which my hon . friend be very familiar in the north - east of England to be able to make strategic investment in export to the indian market . they will be invest in export not just to a large but to a grow market , and one that hold significant commercial opportunity for the decade ahead . just a few week ago , the Business and Trade Secretary say that he would " stand up for british worker " , so it be quite astonishing that the Minister have come to the House today to announce tax break for immigration . this will undercut worker in Scotland and across the UK , and it come just week after Labour introduce its own tax on UK worker . it leave we all wonder : do this Labour Government ever back british worker ? let I name some scottish worker who be absolutely delighted by today ' s announcement . let I quote directly what Chivas have say : " the announcement of a free trade agreement in principle between the UK and India be a welcome boost for Chivas Brothers during an uncertain global economic environment . India be the world ' s big whisky market by volume and great access will be a game changer for the export of our Scotch whisky brand , such as Chivas Regal and Ballantine ' s . " whether it be Chivas Regal , Ballantine ' s or other scottish brand , which be the product of a huge number of worker in Scotland , there be much to celebrate today . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and I congratulate he , this Labour Government and official on negotiate the trade deal , particularly give the conservative party ' s abject failure in this regard . when it come to our business community in the UK , we have strong value in relation to worker ’ right , human right , consumer protection and environmental sustainability , so can the Minister outline how this deal will respect and enhance those value ? I can indeed . I say that this be a modern , forward - look agreement , and that be why there be a recognition in the deal of exactly the value my hon . friend mention . that represent a first for India in many case , it reflect the fact that we be determined to secure that as part of the negotiation , and it be one of the many reason we be proud of the agreement announce today . today ' s trade deal announcement will be welcome by many in Scotland , not least those in the whisky industry . in the face of volatile US tariff , this be undoubtedly good news . however , there have be increase pressure in the UK — even from the former Prime Minister Tony Blair — for the Government to abandon their net zero ambition . I understand that carbon mechanism be crucial in these trade negotiation with India . give that the SNP Government have today reaffirm their full commitment to net zero and sustainable industry , can the Minister give his reassurance that the UK Government ' s climate ambition have not be sacrifice to secure this deal ? I can give the House that assurance . I think we be go to have an uncharacteristically warm endorsement from the hon . Gentleman until he get to the word " however " . I have to say , we have be so busy negotiate a trade deal with India that we have not have the chance to read the First Minister ' s " Programme for Government " today . in the spirit of generosity , he pay tribute to the work that have be do on whisky , and I will read out the statement by Debra Crew , the Diageo chief executive , who say : " the UK - India Free Trade Agreement be a huge achievement by Prime Ministers Modi and Starmer and Ministers Goyal and Reynolds , and all of we at Diageo toast their success . it will be transformational for Scotch and Scotland , while power job and investment in both India and the UK . " I could not have put it well myself . as have already be say , negotiate a trade deal on beneficial term be hugely significant , particularly with regard to the recent trade war initiate by Trump . however , I have come to this House countless time to raise the issue of human right violation and abuse against the Kashmiris by the Indian Government , and I will do so again today . can the Minister tell I whether the persecution of Kashmiri journalist and human right activist have be raise at any point during these negotiation , and whether he will return to this House , before he sign on the dotted line in a few month , with a full response detail exactly how the UK Government be uphold their international human right obligation , and not undermine effort to defend Kashmiri human right ? the United Kingdom be a lead advocate for human right around the world , and we remain committed to the promotion of universal human right . when we have concern , they be raise directly with partner government , include at ministerial level . the horrific recent terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir be utterly devastating , and my thought remain with the victim , their love one and the people of India . it be , however , for India and Pakistan to find a lasting solution and resolution to the Kashmir dispute , take into account the wish of the Kashmiri people . today ' s news of a free trade agreement between the United Kingdom and India be wonderful — some of we have argue for great free trade arrangement with Commonwealth country for many year . Mr Modi , the Prime Minister of India , should be commend for adopt a free - market system that have bring wealth and prosperity to India , eliminate poverty and enable India to work with country like the United Kingdom . will the Minister accept that none of this would have be possible have we not be sovereign and able to negotiate our own free trade agreement follow our departure from the European Union ? be Brexit not the right thing to do ? first , it be right to recognise that the hon . Gentleman have form on argue for the importance of the Commonwealth ; I seem to recollect answer parliamentary question in recent week on exactly the opportunity for do effective economic work together that be provide by the Commonwealth and the fellowship of friendship that it present we . on that , we be on all four , and I certainly agree that we should look to strengthen and broaden our trading tie where we can . his point about Europe be a well - plough field in this House and elsewhere , and it seem to I that we should be look forward and look for new market rather than engage in old argument . I warmly welcome today ' s important announcement , and in particular the benefit it will bring to the UK economy , with the billion of pound of extra growth it will generate in both the food and drink and advanced manufacturing sector , as well as in many other part of our economy . will the Minister elaborate a little on the benefit to the UK tech sector , and in particular to start - up , such as the many in my constituency , and to the young entrepreneur set up their own small business ? give the significant progress we have make on good , it be right to recognise that there be also huge opportunity on service . I pay tribute to the tech sector in the United Kingdom and to the extraordinary work that be be do not just in my hon . friend ' s constituency , but more broadly . the City of London , I be glad to say , have become a significant global tech hub , not least for fintech . Chris Hayward , policy chairman of the City of London Corporation , say today that " India be a key strategic partner , and this deal reflect our share ambition to deepen trade tie , boost investment , and build last collaboration . " whether in technology , fintech or financial service , there be huge opportunity as a result of this deal . steel tariff be reportedly a major sticking point in these trade negotiation with India . that be of particular concern to community across south Wales , especially follow Tata ' s decision to shut down its blast furnace in Wales and across Europe while simultaneously invest in new capacity in India . can the Minister assure the House that british steelworker have not be sacrifice in order to secure this deal , and can he confirm what tariff rate indian steel import will face when the agreement come into effect ? it be this Government who recently step in to save British Steel in order to save thousand of job and avoid a sudden collapse in our primary steelmaking capacity . thank to this Government ' s swift intervention , we be able to secure the raw material that keep the blast furnace at Scunthorpe alight . British Steel have also cancel the redundancy consultation that would otherwise have put 2 , 700 job at risk . frankly , UK industry depend on the UK steel industry and thank to our plan for change , demand be set to increase , as we build the 1 . 5 million home , the railway , the school and the hospital that we need to usher in a decade of national renewal . that be the context in which we have take forward today ' s announcement . I welcome the conclusion of negotiation on what be the good deal that India have offer any country when it come to free trade . many of my constituent be part of the live bridge of 1 . 9 million people of indian heritage live in and contribute to this country . can the Minister , at a time of global volatility , set out how Labour ' s free trade deal give the world - renowne clothing and food business in Southall the confidence to grow and expand , thereby boost our local economy ? it be right to recognise that both producer and consumer stand to benefit in relation not just to whisky , but on a range of consumer good . I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s constituent in Southall and the extraordinary contribution that they have make as part of that live bridge over many decade here in the United Kingdom . the commercial opportunity in both direction be significant , which be why , I think , we be able to secure the deal today . I welcome this trade deal with a global titan that will be in place for the decade ahead . it have be make possible by Brexit and by the hard work of the previous Government . however , the Minister will be aware that this country run a very substantial trade deficit with India . be the deal that he have negotiate likely to narrow or widen that deficit , because all we know about the tariff , non - tariff trade barrier and trade - off that be implicit in the deal be what we read about in the press or be tell about by the Indian Government ? it be for the Indian Government to account for this trade deal in the term that they so choose . we will follow the establish constitutional process of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 whereby not only be we share a statement with the House at the early opportunity , but the House will have the opportunity to scrutinise the detail of every aspect of this agreement . as somebody who represent a constituency with a proud community of people of indian heritage , with world - beat firm , a skilled workforce , and a catapult centre at the Manufacturing Technology Centre , I would like to ask the Minister to expand on how this deal will help deliver growth , economic development and innovation right across the country , and opportunity for business , small medium and large ? we have speak today of the importance of the indian market , but it be also right to recognise that the indian market presently sit behind some of the world ' s high barrier to trade , notwithstanding the fact that it be the UK ' s 12th large trading partner . the fact that we be tear down so many of those tariff level as part of this agreement will be a very practical and pragmatic offering for the kind of excellence in manufacturing that he have in his constituency and that be represent across our country . how can the Government make a trade deal for the whole of the United Kingdom if they do not control the trade law for the whole of the United Kingdom ? Northern Ireland be still under the control of EU trade law . to give a practical illustration of the problem , under the UK - India trade deal any import to Northern Ireland from India — I speak of import , not export — will be subject not to any agree UK tariff but to whatever prevail EU tariff there be on those good , and the EU do not have a trade deal with India . be this not another illustration of how Northern Ireland have be leave behind by a protocol that have leave we still in the EU ? the Northern Ireland ' s trading relationship and its status within the United Kingdom be not alter as a consequence of the indian free trade agreement that be reach today . the established position be exactly as the right hon . member describe and recognise the distinctive history and significance of the Good Friday agreement — not just in the protocol but the Windsor framework . a huge amount of work have be put in by both side of the House to try to maintain a hard - win peace in Northern Ireland , and that be not compromise by today ' s agreement . as other scottish mps have mention , this deal be good news for the whisky industry . it mean , " Uisge beatha gu le ò r " — whisky galore . it be also good for food producer , such as crofter in the Western Isles , whose export of lamb product now face zero tariff , and the salmon farming industry , which support 420 job in my constituency and account for £ 187 million of trade . it be good news overall . I guess the only question be whether the Minister will be toast this deal with a single malt Hearach from the Isle of Harris Distillery or one from Uist , Benbecula or Barra — a chain of new distillery that now have a new export market thank to this deal . I think it be Tip o ' Neill , former Speaker of the House of Representatives , who say " all politic be local " , so if I be go to be toast tonight ' s deal , it will be with the fine Glenkinchie whisky from the east lothian part of Scotland , not , alas , with an Islay malt or a malt from the outer isle . I pay generous tribute to my hon . friend , who be a doughty , tireless and fearless defender of the interest of not just the Harris tweed industry or whisky producer but scottish salmon farmer , who be a significant contributor to UK export , never mind scottish export . in sector after sector of the scottish economy , there will be significant material benefit as a consequence of this deal . we promise that we would have a Labour Government deliver for Scotland . today we be see what that promise look like deliver . the Minister just admit that this agreement mean the expansion of some visa scheme . the Indian Government say that the agreement " ease mobility for professional " such as intra - corporate transferee and their dependant and independent professional like chef . it also say that the new double contribution convention create a three - year exemption from national insurance contribution for Indians work here . can the Minister confirm that this agreement will make indian migrant worker in Britain cheap to employ , relative to british worker , than they be today — yes or no ? the point - base immigration system be not affect . the UK have not give away visa or create new route as part of this deal . it be exist business mobility route that have be expand for highly skilled and experienced professional to cover additional sector . I congratulate the Minister on secure this vital trade deal . the automotive sector in the west midland have be worry about increase tariff in the US , so a trade deal with India — a country where UK brand be highly respected — be extremely welcome . can the Minister tell my constituent in Halesowen who work in the automotive sector how this deal will benefit they ? I hope I can give my hon . friend exactly that assurance , and I be conscious that there be an additional point I should have make early in relation to steel . as part of this agreement , we have include a bilateral safeguard mechanism , which allow we to temporarily suspend or increase tariff if an industry be suffer or there be a threat of serious injury as a result of reduced duty . to my hon . friend ' s question , automotive company will now benefit from sell to India with tariff under a quota reduce from over 100 % to 10 % . we have agree quota to limit the volume of duty - free import permit to enter our market . that will open opportunity for the sector , give they a competitive edge in the indian market and increase access to India ' s rapidly grow middle class . as the sector transition to electric vehicle , so will the market access we have secure as part of this deal . it will give british business the opportunity to scale up their export as production ramp up . both the UK and India have grow ev market and production , so we want to protect these industry while ensure that consumer have choice . I thank the Minister for his statement . he will be aware of the tremendous filming potential in Northern Ireland , and of the increase number of Hollywood film shoot there . the Northern Ireland film and tv industry have make a significant contribution to the regional economy , boost it by some £ 330 million since 2018 , and 4 , 000 job be tie to it . it be essential that we outline the importance of trade deal to the region , and the film sector must be part of that . solution must be find to enable global film maker to film in picturesque , skilled , cost - efficient Northern Ireland . picturesque and skilled — I can not remember the other word that the hon . Member use , but I agree with every one of they . as I recollect , significant part of " the Crown " be film in Northern Ireland . there be a huge and burgeon economic opportunity for the film industry in Northern Ireland ; as he rightly recognise , that be a tribute not solely to Northern Ireland ' s extraordinary scenery , but to the extraordinary skill and capability of its workforce . the film sector be and will remain a key part of our creative industry , which employ million of people , not just in Northern Ireland but across the whole UK . on his point about the US , I assure he that official and Ministers be in regular communication with our US counterpart . I will not get into the detail of those discussion , but the point he make have be well take . may I add my congratulation to the Minister and everybody involve in get this significant trade deal with what will soon be the big economy in the world over the line ? in Welwyn Hatfield , we have a vibrant indian diaspora , include my friend Councillor Pankit Shah , who , just over 20 year after move to the UK , become our first ever british - indian mayor of Welwyn Hatfield . he have serve with distinction . our close connection be principally due to the University of Hertfordshire in Hatfield , where thousand of student from India have study , and continue to do so . do my right hon . friend agree that while today be a fantastic moment for trade , it be vital that we continue to have visa scheme that encourage indian student to come and study in our country ? let I echo my hon . friend ' s generous tribute to Councillor Pankit Shah , and many like he who have make an immense contribution to the United Kingdom , make we what we be today . that reflect the human bridge form by 1 . 9 million people , and the human dynamic here , and student play a significant , value role in that . AG Barr , which have iconic brand such as Irn - Bru and Rubicon , be base in my Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch constituency . what will the trade deal mean for soft drink company such as Barr ? I hesitate to say , " what ' s it call ? Cumbernauld ! " whether for scottish salmon , scottish whisky or perhaps the most iconic scottish product of all , Irn - Bru , this India - UK trade deal be good news . when I be be brief by official shortly before come to the House , I ask for example of the sector in which we would see the big benefit , and my hon . friend will be delighted to hear that Irn - Bru feature prominently in the description give . Middle East Update with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the middle east . yesterday , israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announce that the israeli Security Cabinet have approve a plan to expand and intensify Israel ' s military operation in Gaza . he say that the Israel Defence Forces operation will extend across more of Gaza . tactic will no long involve short raid , with the implication that Israel will hold the ground it take . report suggest that the plan could include full military occupation of the Gaza strip . Prime Minister Netanyahu say that Gaza ' s population will be move " for its protection " . ten of thousand of reservist be be call up . in parallel , the Security Cabinet reportedly approve a plan to deliver aid through private company . this come at a time when the scale of civilian suffering and humanitarian need be already intolerable . More than 52 , 000 people have now be kill in Gaza . Israel have fully block the entry of humanitarian aid for over two month . the World Food Programme say its food stockpile have be exhaust . the announcement from the israeli Government have rightly spark grave concern that this conflict , which have already work so much bloodshed and suffering , may enter a dangerous new phase . I know that concern will be feel right across the House . let I make the Government position crystal clear : we strongly oppose the expansion of Israel ' s operation . any attempt to annex land in Gaza would be unacceptable . palestinian territory must not be reduce or subject to any demographic change . we want this war to end . we want an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage , the urgent provision of humanitarian aid and a pathway to a political solution . we all recognise that Hamas continue to hold hostage in the cruell fashion . their action show their complete disregard for the interest of the palestinian people . Hamas must not divert aid for their own financial gain or use civilian infrastructure for military purpose . we repeat our demand for the immediate release of the hostage , but an expansion of this conflict be not the route to achieve their safe return . that be why it be so strongly oppose by so many hostage ' family . negotiation offer the good hope of end the agony of those wait for love one who be hold captive , alleviate the suffering of civilian , and end Hamas ' s control of Gaza . it be evident that Hamas can not be defeat through military mean alone . an expansion of military operation will result in the death of more innocent civilian and put the hostage at yet great risk . the fighting must stop . the Government have say since day one in office that the only way to ensure a path towards long - term peace and stability be an immediate ceasefire , the release of hostage , well protection of civilian and significantly more aid enter Gaza . diplomacy be how we ensure security for Israelis and Palestinians , not more bloodshed . all the people of this region deserve to live in peace , prosperity and security . we urge all party urgently to return to talk , implement the ceasefire agreement in full and work towards a permanent peace . we continue to use our full diplomatic weight to bring about a ceasefire and end the suffering . after more than two month of aid into Gaza be block , Palestinians continue to face immense suffering . essential supply of food and medicine be either no long available or quickly run out . as the United Nations have already say , it be hard to see how , if implement , the new israeli plan to deliver aid through private company would be consistent with humanitarian principle and meet the scale of the need . we need urgent clarity from the israeli Government on their intention . we must remember what be at stake . these humanitarian principle matter for every conflict around the world . they should be apply consistently in every war zone . as we have say repeatedly , humanitarian aid must never be use as a political tool , and Israel be bind under international law to allow the unhindered passage of humanitarian aid . I repeat my call for Israel to engage with partner to allow for a rapid and unhindered resurgence in the flow of aid into Gaza . we reiterate our outrage at recent strike by israeli force on humanitarian worker , infrastructure and healthcare facility . Israel must do far more to protect the civilian population and humanitarian worker , and hold to account those who be responsible . over a year since the appalling attack on the World Central Kitchen , in which three british national be tragically kill , we continue to press for a conclusion to the israeli investigation and a decision as to whether criminal proceeding will be bring . the UN and humanitarian partner must be able to carry out their work in safety , in accordance with their principle . last week , we welcome Prime Minister Mustafa of the Palestinian Authority to the United Kingdom . we sign a landmark memorandum of understanding and confirm a £ 101 million package of support for the Occupied Palestinian Territories . we will continue to support the Palestinian Authority as the only legitimate govern entity in the occupied Palestinian Territories , include in Gaza . during that visit , we reaffirm the UK ' s commitment to recognise a palestinian state as a contribution to a two - state solution . only a political horizon of move towards a two - state solution can ensure the long - term peace and security of both Palestinians and Israelis . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Minister , Dame Priti Patel . today be day 578 since the atrocity of 7 October and the capture of the hostage . fifty - nine innocent hostage continue to be hold in cruel captivity by Hamas , and those who be still alive have no access to aid or communication with their family . do the Minister agree that Iran and Hamas be to blame for event since 7 October , and that the immediate return of hostage would aid effort to secure the ceasefire ? what discussion have the Foreign Secretary have in recent day with the US , and with middle eastern and other partner who have broker previous agreement on effort to secure the release of the hostage ? what exactly be Britain contribute to these effort ? be the UK ' s convene power be use effectively , and what international pressure be the UK try to bring to bear on Hamas to release the hostage and to ensure their removal from power ? the Minister state that Hamas can not be defeat through military mean . on what basis have he reach that assertion , and what be his alternative to get Hamas to lay down their arm ? on aid , he mention the israeli Government ' s fear about aid diversion . if the current situation on aid access be to be unblocked , the Government must seriously engage with Israel to address the many concern , and the broad situation , that have lead to the breakdown of the ceasefire . how much UK - fund aid be wait to enter Gaza , where be it be hold , and what be the Minister do to engage with his israeli counterpart , so as to find practical solution to this issue ? what engagement have take place between the Foreign Secretary and his israeli counterpart on the decision of the israeli Security Cabinet to undertake this new operation in Gaza , include on its objective ? we all want to see a sustainable end to the conflict , the return of the hostage , the alleviation of this awful crisis and , eventually , a two - state solution , with the region free of Hamas and of threat from Iran . the Government talk about want to achieve these thing , but clearly they need to convince we all that there be a plan for achieve they . let we be clear : the root cause of so much bloodshed and misery in the middle east be the regime in Iran , and if this government be serious about achieve a sustainable peace in the middle east , they must have a strategy to deter Iran and undermine its regime and its awful approach , which be to sow destruction and export repression around the world , include to the UK ; we hear about that in a statement early . when will the Government come out with a clear strategy for deal with this malign threat to peace and stability , both in the middle east and elsewhere ? for month we have be ask question of this government ; in fact , I ask the Minister the same question just last week . as we see on 27 March , the Intelligence and Security Committee send a report on Iran to the Prime Minister . how many more militant and terrorist will be bankroll by Iran , threaten life , before the Government have a clear strategy in place ? what engagement be take place with the US to tackle Iran ' s destructive influence and ensure that it never become a nuclear state ? while the Minister be at the Dispatch Box , can he update we on other matter in the middle east ? on Sunday , the Iranian - back Houthis recklessly fire a missile at Israel , which land near the main terminal of Ben Gurion airport and injure six people . let alone the risk to aviation , many more could have be injure or kill on the ground ; that , no doubt , must have be the desire outcome of the Houthis . do the Government have a plan to deal with the ongoing threat of the Houthis , include the threat they pose to stability and security and to our own interest ? on Syria , the Government announce to the medium on 24 April that they be lift 24 more sanction , but it take six day before they inform the House through a write ministerial statement that they would be do so . will the Minister explain why the House be give that discourtesy and why the matter be not bring to the House early ? we still have no clarity about the criterion be use to lift the sanction , the entity identify or the impact . the Government be also not apply any condition . the US be impose condition on Syria when it come to ease sanction , include destroy chemical weapon and co - operate on counter - terrorism . will the Government explain why they have take a different route from our ally when we have consistently work in concert with our international partner ? why be we now work in isolation and in such an unco - ordinate way ? the last Conservative Government lead a co - ordinate approach when it come to Syria , and this Government be now behind the curve . we have to be cautious when it come to lift sanction . the situation in Syria be fragile , particularly when we see the appalling clash between the pro - Government and Druze community . be the Government press Hayat Tahrir al - Sham into action ? finally , will the Minister update the House on the situation in Lebanon ? what be his assessment of the current situation , include the adherence to the ceasefire , the term of UN Security Council resolution 1701 and the broad political stability ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her important question . I take the opportunity to respond to her important question about the attack on Ben Gurion airport . I absolutely condemn the Houthis ' continued missile attack , include the attack on Ben Gurion airport over the weekend . Israel have extensive experience of the danger of civil aviation attack of this kind , and we reiterate our support for its right to self - defence in the face of Houthi attack . the House hear from the Defence Secretary last week some of the effort we be take in the collective self - defence of our ally in the Red sea . the right hon . Lady raise a number of other important point . I can update the House that we be in regular contact with those press for a ceasefire in the region — most obviously , of course , the President of the United States ' special envoy , Mr Witkoff , who I believe be in the region now . of course , the Foreign Secretary have be in touch with his counterpart in Israel , as well as with many other . he have be in Oman and Qatar recently , and as the right hon . Lady would expect , I have be in regular contact with all those with an interest . the right hon . Lady ask for an update on sanction . I be not aware of any discourtesy in the sequence of how we announce the Syria sanction , but I be happy to take that point away . if there be any discourtesy , I can assure she that it be accidental . we take the step that we do in relation to sanction because we want the new syrian Government to succeed . Britain ' s interest — indeed , Israel ' s interest — be in a stable and secure Syria . the new syrian Government have take welcome step . as the right hon . Lady point out , there be still area of major concern , but the judgment that I take alongside the Foreign Secretary be that we should lift sanction that clearly no long target entity control by the Assad regime — give that it be clearly no long in power in Syria — and maintain sanction where asset hold by the Assad family be still relevant . we take a series of principled step to try to ensure that the new Syria have the good possible chance of be the success that would be in Britain ' s national interest . we maintain those sanction on the Assad family , and we do so in close co - operation with our ally . I agree with the Minister ' s comment and condemnation of Israel ' s action in Gaza . the problem be that I have agree with he every time he have make these condemnation of Israel , and the whole House generally have join he in that , but the reality be that Israel be take absolutely no notice of the Government ' s position . its action now in Gaza — the starving of the population and the threat of wholesale movement of that population away — be completely unacceptable . will the Minister consider a rapid recognition of a palestinian state , hopefully together with France and other ally , and will he seriously consider sanction against Israel if it pursue the wholesale removal of Palestinians from their home ? I know the strength of feeling of my hon . friend and of so many member on the Benches behind I and , indeed , across the House . it be obviously a source of great anguish to I and all in the government that we continue , this far into our government , to not have the ceasefire in place that we have long call for . we be work with our ally to try to persuade Israel to change course . as he will know , I will not comment on sanction from the Dispatch Box , but we have be as clear as we can on our position in relation to the many area we have discuss in the House week after week , month after month where there have be a failure to see improvement , whether that be the protection of civilian or aid into Gaza . we will , of course , continue to discuss all other matter in relation to this fraught and tragic situation with our close partner , as he would expect . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the israeli Government ' s decision to approve plan for an expand offensive , summarise by official as the " conquest " of Gaza , be disgraceful . it will wreak more devastation and displacement on Palestinians after month of bombardment . it will also narrow the path back to a ceasefire , while severely harm the chance of get the remain hostage in Hamas ' s captivity back to Israel alive . do the Minister agree that if the israeli Government carry out their threat to seize and hold Gaza , that would constitute a further flagrant breach of international law ? in that instance , what would this Government ' s response be ? the late aid blockade of Gaza have now last for more than 60 day . the UN have describe it as a " grow humanitarian catastrophe " . Prime Minister Netanyahu ' s late proposal to deliver aid through private company at military hub appear to contravene basic principle of international humanitarian law , include the neutrality of aid , and have be criticise by aid organisation as dangerous and unworkable . the israeli Government ' s refusal to reopen aid route be utterly unacceptable and contravene their obligation as an occupy power . we welcome the Government ' s pledge of a £ 101 million package of support for the Occupied Palestinian Territories . however , without more action to secure the reopening of aid pathway , this new package will provide limited relief for Palestinians suffer in the strip . can the Minister provide detail on how the Government be work with international partner to pressure the israeli Government to allow their aid to reach Gaza ? can he update the House on whether contingency measure be be consider to ensure that aid reach those suffering in Gaza , even if the israeli Government continue to block the direct supply of aid into the strip ? the hon . Lady ask a series of important question . I seek in my statement to focus very clearly on what have be announce by the israeli Government , include by Prime Minister Netanyahu on Sunday . I do not wish to be draw into speculation about the various report of how this operation may be conduct ; I wish to stick only to the public announcement . we have be clear all the way along in our commitment to a ceasefire and our desire to return to the framework of the ceasefire that be negotiate with such relief . we be in regular touch with Special Envoy Witkoff . we hope that through his effort , he will be able to secure a return to a ceasefire . that would be far preferable on all the axis that the hon . Lady describe , whether that be the safe return of hostage , the desperate need for humanitarian aid to return to Gaza or , in our view , Israel ' s security . she ask important question about the role of an occupy power in the provision of aid . my official set out our view on the legal position on Friday at the International Court of Justice . the israeli Government ' s plan to expand their military operation in Gaza and displace its population speak volume about the effect of their impunity — impunity to break international law , to cut off food and medical supply , to starve a population and to kill ten of thousand of civilian . what will the Minister do to end the impunity with which Israel be act ? when will he finally sanction those israeli Ministers , apply a full arm embargo , ban all settlement good and , most importantly , recognise Palestine ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . I have set out at the Dispatch Box the step we have take , whether it be in relation to sanction , arm or good , and I will not rehearse they here ; I can see that many member want to contribute . as she would expect , I will not comment on further sanction . my hon . friend ask the question that I know be on the lip of so many in this House , about recognition . what we see in Gaza and the announcement over the weekend be a very significant , immediate and practical threat to the viability of palestinian life , and we be take every practical step we can , alongside our ally , to try to focus on the ceasefire . that must be our most immediate priority , give the threat that hang over such a significant civilian population as we speak . in his statement , the Minister say that the UK Government " reaffirm the UK ' s commitment to recognise a palestinian state " . up to now , the excuse have be that we have to wait until negotiation be complete . there be no negotiation — all we have be extremist settler try to force out palestinian people from their village in the west bank , which I have see with my own eye . in the name of God , why can we not give the palestinian people some hope ? why can we not give they the same right to self - determination and recognise a palestinian state now ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman and my constituency neighbour for his commitment to these issue . the problem the palestinian people face at this moment be acute , immediate and practical . as I have set out , we stand by our commitment . we want to make a contribution to practically improve the life of the palestinian people , and we will view recognition in that light . no one can deny any long that Israel be commit war crime after war crime , with over 50 , 000 Palestinians kill , million forcibly displace , the complete blockade of Gaza for the last two month and now plan to annex the entirety of the Gaza strip . just what will it take for the Government to properly act over Netanyahu ' s break of every single international norm and rule ? I say to the Minister that simply oppose the expansion of military operation from the Dispatch Box be not secure peace or help the palestinian people . the Government have rightly impose widespread sanction on Russia . why do they refuse to impose widespread sanction on Israel ? I recognise the passion in my hon . friend ' s voice , and as he know , it be not just at this Dispatch Box that we have set out our view . he ask for widespread sanction . of course , as the House know , we have impose sanction on violent settler , and we have suspend arm licence , accord to a careful process and have look at the risk to international humanitarian law . we will continue to take action across the full range of our diplomatic option , and not just at this Dispatch Box , as he would expect . what dialogue be ongoing with Egypt at this time ? there be concern about the pressure on Egypt , not just from the situation in Gaza and its obvious interest in the Rafah crossing , but in the south from the conflict in Sudan . Egypt remain an important party in get to a resolution . what be the Government ' s current dialogue with and support for Egypt ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his important question . of course the conflict affect not just Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories but many of its neighbour , include Egypt . I confirm that the Government have be in regular dialogue with their egyptian counterpart , and I have an upcoming exchange with one of my egyptian counterpart on exactly these question . the people of Gaza be be starve deliberately , and they need full , immediate , unimpeded delivery of adequate aid . will the UK Government insist that Israel ensure that aid be distribute not by private military contractor , but by the UN and international agency , accord to the UN ' s recognise humanitarian principle of humanity , neutrality , independence and impartiality ? my hon . friend rightly highlight the importance of the humanitarian principle she outline . those be important principle not just in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories , but right across the world . it be a proud part of british history that we have be such forceful advocate for those principle , and we will continue to be so with Israel and any other who seek to undermine they . the hon . Member will forgive I , but there be few thing more infuriate in this House than listen to Ministers — whether they be of the blue persuasion , or of the red persuasion , as now — fail to call out collective punishment for what it be , fail to call out war crime for what they be , continue to justify the sale of arm to Israel , and find every excuse possible not to recognise the state of Palestine . perhaps he will be the one who surprise I , get to his foot , and say that the plan as lay out by Benjamin Netanyahu be tantamount to ethnic cleansing . will he do that , yes or no ? the right hon . Gentleman , perhaps unsurprisingly , go for rhetoric , and he want I to opine on question of law and make determination that Ministers , for a long time , have rightly choose to treat as question for the court . he ask I to take action . as a Government , the Labour party have take action . it have take action on arm , and on sanction — we have a record that we can defend ; we be not simply here for rhetoric . not a week go by without more worrying news come out of the middle east , and my thought be with the innocent people in Gaza who be worried about a new offensive , with the hostage family who be worried about their love one , and with Israel follow the Houthi attack . will the Minister join I in condemn the Houthi attack , and in call for negotiation to continue that will see aid get into Gaza and hostage return home ? I thank my hon . friend for his question — I know of his long personal commitment to those so badly affect by this conflict . I join he in condemnation of the Houthi attack . the House should be under no illusion about the nature of the Houthis . they be no friend to the Palestinians , and their repeat strike against international shipping — indeed , against practically any flagged vessel that cross through the Red sea — be a threat to global peace and security , and to international trade . their action target civilian aviation do nothing for the palestinian people . after 18 month of the diplomacy that the Minister refer to , it be clear that Israel have not significantly comply once . after watch child be shoot in the street , medic and hospital consistently target , british citizen and rescue worker murder and their body conceal , red line such as Rafah reduce to rubble , and the hostage still in captivity , we now learn from an israeli Government Minister that Gaza be to be " entirely destroy " . we be watch the livestreamed starvation of an entire people . the Minister talk about his anguish , which I know be genuine , but can he not see what the majority of the House can see , which be that he be face a catastrophic failure of Government policy , for which the Palestinians , the Israelis and the rest of we may well pay a heavy price for many year to come ? he be an intelligent man . can he not see the moral and tactical case for a change in strategy that might bring about peace ? the right hon . Gentleman talk powerfully , and the scene in Gaza be visible to we all . he ask question about tactic and strategy , and the right strategy must be over the next two week for Special Envoy Witkoff ' s effort to see success . we need to see a ceasefire restore . those who be advocate for that political process need our full support , and that be where the effort of the Government be focused . israeli Government Minister Smotrich say today that Gaza be to be " entirely destroy " , and its people be to " leave in great number to third country " . that late threat be on top of the deliberate blockage of aid into Gaza , on top of the ongoing displacement of the past 19 month , and on top of 50 , 000 death . there be clearly breach of international humanitarian law . the Minister have be clear in his condemnation , and clear that this be not the way to bring the hostage home . if the israeli Government be not listen to his word , and surely they be not , will he consider what meaningful action the Government can take ? will he consider further sanction against israeli Ministers , and against good that be make in illegal settlement on steal palestinian land ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . clearly the rhetoric of some israeli Government Ministers have cross a threshold after which we would all condemn they — the Foreign Secretary have condemn a series of statement . I be not familiar with that statement , but it look as if it would fall very much in the same category . as she would expect , I will not comment on further sanction . as I have make clear , we have take action and we will keep further action under review . the Minister have make the Government ' s position crystal clear that the israeli plan be unacceptable . how will british Government policy towards Israel change as that plan be implement ? as the right hon . Gentleman will know , we hope to avoid have to deal with that hypothetical , and we will seek to persuade the israeli Government not to embark on a path so damaging , for all the reason I have set out this afternoon . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman will be ask I that question in the House should we fail . yet again , the unimaginable horror of what be happen in Gaza have be join by yet more unacceptable behaviour from the israeli Government . let I be clear to the House : the butcher of Hamas could draw this to an end today by release the hostage , but that do not make right the starvation and destruction of the palestinian people in Gaza . a dictionary definition of ethnic cleansing include the mass expulsion of a people from their land . I ask the Minister two question . what do he think and how do he feel when he hear Israeli Ministers say : " we be finally go to occupy the Gaza Strip … once we occupy … we can talk about sovereignty " ? those of we on the Labour Benches stand on a manifesto commitment to recognise the state of Palestine . if not now , when ? my hon . friend have a deep commitment to these issue ; he raise they here and elsewhere often . let I be clear : any attempt to annex land in Gaza would be unacceptable . palestinian territory must not be reduce or subject to any demographic change . he can read from that the strength of our view on some of the announcement make by some of those associate with the israeli Government . we want to see a palestinian state that can function safely , side by side with a safe israeli state , and it be regrettable that that seem like such a distant prospect . I be sure that we will continue this discussion in the House in the week and month to come . in the light of the late outrage from the Netanyahu Government in displace hundred of thousand of innocent Palestinians , which come on top of the starvation of hundred of thousand of Palestinians , the murdering of aid worker and the expansion of violence by settler , we get from the Minister strong opposition , a request for " urgent clarity " and a reiteration of his " outrage " . he say that he be take action , but he can hear from all side of the House that nobody be satisfied with the level of action that the british Government be take . I implore he to listen to the support from all side of the House , recognise a palestinian state , impose a full arm embargo on Israel and sanction Smotrich and Ben - Gvir . in the name of God , as other have say , please can we get aid into Gaza so that people will stop starve ? the hon . Lady be right to press on the absolutely vital importance of aid get into Gaza . those be point that we make regularly and with force to the israeli Government . part of my anguish be about the report that I read , as so many in the House do , of the continue failure for that to happen . I will address a point that I think she may have make , which other have also make , about whether there be alternative route to get aid into Gaza . a range of alternative route , other than through the land crossing , have be try . it be the view of the British Government that no route other than a land route can get the scale of aid that be now require into Gaza . israeli decision making be prevent those land route from be in operation . the hon . Lady ask about the recognition of a palestinian state , and I refer she to my previous answer . I thank my hon . friend for his statement follow yet another appalling turn of event towards Gaza by the israeli Government . in a Westminster Hall debate in February , I say I fear that " if the occupation continue , it will become increasingly difficult to apply international law to the situation on the ground . " — [ Official Report , 12 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 198WH . ] I now fear that if we do not recognise a palestinian state , there will be no palestinian state that include Gaza leave to recognise . will the UK Government take immediate step to recognise the state of Palestine ? we be clear about the principle of international law that apply . as I say to the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , on Friday we appear at the International Court of Justice to set out our understanding of the obligation on an occupy power — in this case , Israel . we be clear about what international law , in our view , mean for the occupy power . as we have hear , the Netanyahu Cabinet have approve an illegal plan to expand its military offensive to capture and occupy all of Gaza . that will put 1 million child at acute risk of starvation , epidemic disease and death , with the deliberate blockade of food and essential supply . do the Minister deny that that constitute genocide in real time ? when do he last assess the real risk that Israel be commit genocide in Gaza ? as the House know , I will not make a determination from this Dispatch Box on question of law . we assess risk . I can confirm that those assessment be ongoing and that a prevention of humanitarian aid reach Gaza be part of they . as we approach the anniversary of the ICJ advisory opinion on the occupation , what be delay the UK Government ' s response ? be it that the opinion require not just recognition that the occupation be illegal , but the Government to set out what step they will take to end that occupation ? will the Minister at least say from the Dispatch Box whether the Government believe that the movement of the palestinian population of Gaza would constitute a forcible displacement ? forcible movement of the Gazan population out of Gaza would be forcible displacement , and that be a clear concept in international law . Israel be an important security , trade and democratic partner , but that do not give it a blank cheque . the fact be that 13 , 000 child have be kill and 25 , 000 have be injure , maim or wound — some of they have be orphan . I have be in this House for 20 year , and for many year I have support Israel — pretty much at all cost , quite frankly — but today I say that I get it wrong . I condemn Israel for what it be do to the palestinian people in Gaza and the west bank . I withdraw my support right now for the action of Israel and what it be do right now in Gaza . of course the hostage should be release , of course Israel have a right to exist , and of course israeli and jewish people should have the right to live in peace , but so do the palestinian people . I have say it before , and I will say it again : the life of a palestinian child be as precious as the life of a jewish child . this be a particular moment in time . we have have lot of statement over the past 18 month . not only be this not Parliament ' s great hour , but I be really concerned that this be a moment in history on which people will look back and in which we have get it wrong as a country . will the Minister stand up to our friend and ally in the United States and make a strong stand for humanity , for we to be on the right side of history and for have the moral courage to lead , not just to follow the United States , and to make a difference ? that be why we be all elect here . let we stand up for life . let we stand up for all child , not just jewish child . that be a very powerful intervention . I will not linger long in the answer , other than to say that I hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s word and feel their force . I will of course endeavour to stand up on the international stage and here at this Dispatch Box equal to the strength of some of these contribution . we have hear throughout the afternoon all the thing in Gaza that have be commit by Israel . the truth of the matter be that Israel be commit the cold - blooded murder of medic , civilian , UN staff and even many aid worker in the aid flotilla in international water . in the west bank , there be more than 500 , 000 illegal settler , and illegal violent settler use force , back by the IDF and the Israelis , have be kill and maim people . do that not show that the action of Israel have be all about occupy Gaza and the west bank and that , as israeli Cabinet Ministers have be say , Israel basically want a full Judea and Samaria and that it will not stop at Gaza or the west bank , but continue ? order . before I bring in the Minister , may I ask hon . member and the Minister to make their question and answer a little bit shorter ? let I restate the british Government ' s position in relation to the west bank and the Gaza strip : we hope that both those territory will be a vital part of a single palestinian state and that be the objective towards which we strive . in the past year , 100 , 000 tonne of bomb have be drop on Gaza , which be the equivalent of five time the power of the nuclear weapon use over Hiroshima and Nagasaki some 80 year ago . that action in Gaza have result in the death of at least 60 , 000 people , and on top of that we be now go to have the complete invasion of Gaza by Israel . at what point will the Government cease all arm supply and military co - operation with Israel , cease the use of RAF Akrotiri and , above all , stop the export of any part for F - 35 jet , which have be complicit in the killing of 60 , 000 people in Gaza ? surely it be time for the british Government to say no : no more , no weapon , no co - operation , no support , and to save life in Gaza and the west bank . now be the time to say and do that . I have set out the position in relation to the carve - out for F - 35 component . to be clear to the House , we have suspend the sale of F - 35 part where they go directly to Israel . it be only when we do not know their final destination that their sale be not suspend . I will not rehearse the recognition point , give the pressure on time . let we be clear , the mask murderer of Hamas could end the suffering of the Gazan people today if they release the hostage and agree to a ceasefire . but let we also be clear that this extremist Israeli Government , in their own action in the past few day and week , be endanger the state of Israel . as the right hon . member for the Wrekin ( Mark Pritchard ) make absolutely clear , the israeli Government be undermine the state of Israel by their action , more than any Hamas extremist could dream of . I agree with what the Minister say about practical measure and pragmatism rather than symbolism , but do he not think that the most practical step that this country can take be to recognise the state of Palestine , in conjunction with other state , as soon as possible , in order to move the peace process on ? I assure my hon . friend that we want to move this process on , towards a political horizon and a peaceful solution , as quickly as we possibly can . I have be in the Minister ' s shoe and I sympathise with he as he grapple with an extremely complicated and fraught situation , but do he agree that there can not be any sustainable peace in the region or a viable Palestine without deal with Hamas ? if so , what would be his plan to achieve that with other , beyond pious rhetoric and hand - wringing ? the right hon . Gentleman be knowledgeable and experienced . he be right to focus on the central importance of remove Hamas from any position in Gaza where they could pose a threat , both to the palestinian people and to israeli civilian , who have suffer so terribly at their hand . the answer be to remove Hamas and have the Palestinian Authority return to their rightful place as the sole legitimate Government authority for both the west bank and Gaza . in addition to continue its cruel aid blockade , a far - right Israeli Minister deplorably tell a gathering in the occupied Palestinian Territories that Gaza be to be " entirely destroy " and Palestinians will be force to flee in large number " to third country " . will the Minister wholeheartedly condemn that , as well as the Netanyahu regime ' s proposal to expand their military operation in Gaza ? will he confirm to the House exactly what the Government be do , with their international ally , to stop these cruel and callous proposal ? as I tell my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , I have not see those remark , but we have be clear about what we think be acceptable and we have condemn remark by other israeli Ministers . once I have have an opportunity to review the remark that my hon . friend mention , I be sure I will be in a position to provide a further comment . I reiterate our condemnation of the cruelty of some of the measure that have be put in place , particularly the block on aid into Gaza . an israeli human right group have now describe Israel as use starvation as a method of warfare , which be a war crime under article 54 of the Geneva convention . will the Minister join Ireland , South Africa and many other country in clarify that there have be a genocide and apartheid against the people of Palestine ? it be time to speak up and out , and to speak for Palestine . I will not rehearse the point I have already make about the determination of genocide and about recognition . the evacuation order of the israeli force have result in the forcible transfer of Palestinians in Gaza into ever - shrink space , where they have little or no access to lifesave service and continue to be subject to attack . what step will the Government take to put pressure on Israel to ensure it do not go ahead with its plan to move Gaza ' s population ? do the Government agree that the plan constitute force displacement , which be a war crime ? as I have say , we be clear on the status of force displacement under international law . my hon . friend ' s contribution be very important . I know many hon . member be conscious of the multiple displacement of many Palestinians in Gaza , who have be displace not once or twice , but in many case more than three time . the treatment of palestinian civilian who be just try to live be terrible , and I share the feeling of the House about that . the UK Government be right to state at the International Court of Justice last week that Israel have a responsibility under international law to provide food and essential humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza , and yet we know that Israel have block all aid shipment for the past two month . give the catastrophe unfold before our eye , be it not worth resurrect negotiation and discussion with international ally about the possible airdrop of humanitarian aid , so that , at the very least , we can not say that we sit idly by and watch an entire population starve ? we have be involve in discussion about airdrop . there be a role for they and we have speak with partner in the region who have be keen to see airdrop as a contribution , particularly give the pressure on aid , and I be not rule they out . however , give the scale of humanitarian aid that be need , I must be clear with the House that helicopter airdrop can only reach a certain level , so while that aid would be welcome , it would be a very partial response to the scale of need that we see . the israeli Government ' s plan to expand their military offensive in Gaza , include hold ground and move the palestinian population to the south of the district , be wholly unacceptable . it be a clear act of aggression and fly in the face of international law . I welcome the Minister ' s statement that this Government strongly condemn Israel ' s action , but do he accept from voice across the House that the recognition of Palestine as a state be imperative if we be to work towards a last peace ? I agree with my hon . friend that a safe and secure palestinian state , alongside its neighbour , a safe and secure israeli state , will in the end be the vital component of sustainable peace in the region . Madam Deputy Speaker , " Gaza will be entirely destroy " . that be a direct quote from Israel ' s Minister of Finance , Bezalel Smotrich , early today . that be the language of ethnic cleansing and genocide from a pariah Government who be use starvation as a weapon of war . warning that the israeli Government will seek to displace the entire palestinian population and flatten all of Gaza have be repeatedly ignore by this Government over many month , yet that be now the reality that Gazans face . give that the UK have continue to give support to Israel throughout the conflict — there be report that an RAF jet fly to Israel with F - 35 part and military personnel only last week — have british intelligence service and the Foreign Office be blindside by Israel ' s approve plan ? if the hon . Gentleman be ask whether the Foreign Office be aware of the plan before it be announce , the answer be that we be not aware . in all of our interaction since we become the Government , we have be clear on the view we would take on proposal of this nature . for more than a year and a half , we have witness a genocide be livestreame on our screen . we have see child in Gaza be blow apart by israeli bomb and infant waste away from Israel ' s impose starvation , and now Israel be propose a full invasion and occupation of the entire strip . the israeli Government be make a mockery of international law , and we be enable it . it be not enough for the UK Government just to condemn the israeli Government ; when will our Government end all arm sale to Israel and implement trade sanction ? we can not be ask in year to come , " what do we do to prevent a genocide ? " and for the answer to be , " not enough . " I will not rehearse the F - 35 point that I discuss with the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , but on my hon . friend ' s point about international law , this Government will continue to stand for international law , as we do on Friday at the ICJ . we be absolutely clear on our position on international law as it pertain to the occupy power , which be what Israel find itself as in Gaza . from the Father of the House to the 2024 intake , we be hear across the Chamber — from Labour , Conservative , Green , Plaid and Scottish National colleague — a consensus about what the Government need to do on behalf of the british people . we need our government to recognise the palestinian state , we need to make sure that the hostage be return home , and we need to stop the killing of innocent Palestinians who be now face with starvation . Minister , on behalf of this House of Commons , I plead with you and the Government to take action — with the Minister . you do not plead with I . sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker . we plead with the Minister and the Government to take action on behalf of all of we as hon . member in this House , and to do the right thing and show leadership . we be capable of leadership ; we need to act . I have be at this Dispatch Box on many occasion discuss these issue , but I can confirm to the hon . Gentleman that I have feel the force of the contribution make this afternoon . I thank the Minister for come to the House this afternoon to give this update , and for his strong opposition to the propose expansion of Israel ' s military operation . constituent continue to be horrify — as do we all — by the consequence of the assault on Gaza , the blockade of aid , and now the news of escalation this weekend . they ask , if diplomacy be fail , what come next ? what more can the Minister tell my constituent about the late negotiation ? I join other from across the House in the call for meaningful action , include recognition . we be fully commit to play our full diplomatic role . I hear the frustration of my hon . friend ' s constituent — indeed , I hear the same frustration from my own constituent in Lincoln . I know that many across the country watch these scene with grow horror that they continue this long into the conflict . we will be work on this issue , include with our european partner , particularly France and Germany . we have issue e3 statement together ; it be a source of share frustration that more progress have not be make . as I say in an early answer , we hope to see progress towards a ceasefire . we be support the effort of Special Envoy Witkoff in that regard , and we will spare no effort . over and over again , from all part of this House , we witness grandstand against mass migration and the most vulnerable in any society — refugee and asylum seeker — while know all too well that refugee crisis be not bear in a vacuum , as attest to by the situation unfold in Gaza before the eye of the world . refugee have no choice ; they be force out of their home and thrust on the world , look for somewhere safe to seek asylum . after last week ' s election , the Prime Minister — Order . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman be go to get to his question very quickly . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . after last week ' s election , the Prime Minister pledge to the british public that he would go hard on the issue of migration . give what the israeli Government be now say , I ask the Minister whether his Government will come down hard — through action , not mere condemnation — to ensure that the world be not face with a new and devastating refugee crisis . as the hon . Gentleman know , one of the most painful element of this crisis have be that even those Palestinians in Gaza who wish to leave have not be able to do so . regrettably , we have already discuss force displacement many time this afternoon , so I will not rehearse the point , but I can assure he that in the face of potential further escalation in the conflict , we will redouble our effort to secure the ceasefire that I know everybody in this House want to see restore . I be go to get all member in , but I urge short question . Israel be starve Gaza to death . I be sorry , Minister , but when Israel be use starvation as a weapon of war and Palestinians be be ethnically cleanse before our eye , mere word of regret or condemnation from the Government be simply not good enough . we in this House will be judge in history for fail the palestinian people , so I urge the Minister to listen to the consensus that be be build across the House today and act . we do not need word ; we need action for the palestinian people . I have hear the force of the contribution . I say gently to my hon . friend that unlike my predecessor , I have take action in response to this crisis , as have the Foreign Secretary and other . however , in the face of the scene come out of Gaza , it be clear that no one can be claim victory at the moment . I thank the Minister for his statement , as well as for his carefully choose word ; it be never easy to respond to all these question . as he have state , peace talk must be a priority for the region , and it be absolutely essential that food and aid can reach child . have the Minister be able to talk with our ally in Israel about allow independent third party immediate access to Gaza to distribute needed supply , while also ensure — very importantly — that Israel ' s safety be not compromise in any way ? the hon . Gentleman talk about the importance of independence and impartiality , which be exactly the principle that should be guide the humanitarian operation in Gaza . he be absolutely right that Hamas must not be divert aid for their own financial gain or use civilian infrastructure for military purpose . the good way to ensure that be to open up Gaza and allow the aid agency in to operate effectively . the israeli Government have publicly declare their intent to occupy Gaza indefinitely , and be systematically deny Gaza ' s entire population access to the most basic need for sustain human survival . this be a war crime , so do the Minister agree that , alongside France , the UK Government must urgently recognise the state of Palestine at the United Nations conference on the two - state solution in June ? I reassure my hon . friend that we want to make our full contribution in move a two - state solution forward , and of course , we be in touch with all key regional partner in the run - up to the June conference . miss from so much of the debate around the awful conflict in Gaza be the voice of the israeli people and the opposition . they have be cry out for another hostage and ceasefire deal . Israel be a liberal democracy with election due next year . do the Minister agree with opposition figure , such as Yair Lapid , Benny Gantz and Yair Golan , that the threaten expansion of operation in Gaza will do nothing to bring the 59 hostage home or to remove the iranian - sponsor death cult that be Hamas ? my hon . friend have a deep focus on these issue and be commit to play his full role here in they . he will understand why I decline the opportunity to comment on Israel ' s internal politic . I will restate the british Government ' s view , though , that the fast route to safety for those hostage be a ceasefire . the point that he make be make with some force . I thank the Minister for his statement . I appreciate that the Minister can not comment directly on sanction , but he know that I have privately urge he to consider further sanction and further measurable action . give the ongoing horror and the statement from the israeli Government , please will the Minister consider further concrete action ? my hon . friend guess right about my likely response : I will not comment on sanction from this Dispatch Box . she have raise these issue with real force with I , and I be sure that she will continue to do so . we will continue to keep sanction under review . I thank the Minister for his statement , and I very much welcome the strong word of condemnation . none of we will ever forget the horror of 7 October for the israeli people , but these late announcement show an israeli Government who I fear be out of control and make fool of we as ally . first , when my hon . friend commit to use the full diplomatic weight to bring about that ceasefire that we all urgently want to see , what concrete next step do he envisage , give that neither Hamas nor Netanyahu seem bother in the slight about international humanitarian law ? secondly , the Prime Minister have previously describe the recognition of a palestinian state as an " undeniable right " , so when will we see that right honour ? I thank my hon . friend for his commitment to these issue . I will not rehearse the argument about recognition . it be obviously a vital part of what I hope will be a practical set of step forward to try to address the truly horrific scene we see emanating from Gaza . I join he in press on those party to the conflict who be in breach of their international humanitarian law obligation to change their approach . I echo the Minister ' s word condemn Hamas and condemn the Houthi attack on Ben Gurion airport . an aid blockade be an aid blockade , annexation be annexation and war crime be war crime . Israel may be our formal ally , but this weekend the israeli Government have commit to the seizure and occupation of the Gaza strip , which this Government have repeatedly state be a violation of international law . can the Minister tell this House the reasoning that fcdo official have provide to he for not escalate UK sanction on Israel ? do he agree with I and the call of this House that the time have come for significant action in the face of crime that , have they be commit by any other country , we would have already do something about ? as my hon . friend know , official advise and Ministers decide , so I will not labour the question about Foreign Office advice . we will be take action in response to the event that we see , as this House would expect . I will not comment on sanction far from the Dispatch Box , but I recognise the force of the contribution and the commitment of many of my hon . friend , include she , on these question . I be grateful to my hon . friend for come to the House today . the long - term occupation of Gaza be entirely incompatible with a viable two - state solution and completely undermine any small prospect of a last peace . a full - scale occupation of Gaza be inconsistent with international humanitarian law , so can the Minister please advise the House and give some reassurance that the Government be consider urgently recognise the state of Palestine ? if the israeli Government move on the action that have be reference throughout this debate , will the Government seriously look at further sanction ? I know the Minister do not like to talk about that from the Dispatch Box , but can he give an assurance that such a review will take place , should Israel move forward with the action that it have outline ? my hon . friend be right that permanent occupation of Gaza would be a grievous blow to a two - state solution . clearly , the Gaza strip should be a central part of a palestinian state , and I can assure he that we continue to keep all these matter under close review . I thank the Minister for his statement . it be crucial that there be recognition of the palestinian state and that the palestinian people be represent as equal at the negotiating table . give what have go on in the region recently , do the Minister agree that Israel must immediately lift all restriction on aid and allow unfettered access to humanitarian assistance in Gaza ? if Israel refuse , what lever can we use to save innocent life ? my hon . friend be right about the critical nature of the aid shortage in Gaza . the World Food Programme have be clear that it be run out of all stock to sustain life , and it be vital that the Israelis reverse their path and allow aid back into the strip . the palestinian people have a right to determine the future of their country . what specific action will the Minister take on the propose indefinite occupation by Israel of Gaza ? it risk erode the sovereignty of the palestinian people , set an extreme precedent in international law , and ultimately jeopardise any path to a last peace . my hon . friend ask important question . we be raise these issue directly with the israeli Government , and we be talk with our ally about what step we may take next . it have now be more than two month since Israel block food and aid get into Gaza . aid agency tell we that 95 % of their work have be stop or drastically reduce because of the blockade . I welcome the Minister ' s comment condemn these appalling action , but we be now face a total collapse of the aid system in Gaza . be it not time now to go far than word and take action against these extremist Ministers who be advocate for this starvation policy ? my hon . friend be a former aid worker . he understand how these thing work , and his warning about the scale of risk for the humanitarian system , which be support so many palestinian life , be well make . I will not rehearse the comment I have make . the Government be right to strongly oppose the israeli Government ' s plan to expand military action , which be unconscionable . do the Minister agree that what should be expand be the provision of humanitarian aid , and that what should be intensify be negotiation and diplomatic pressure on all party to bring about a ceasefire , a return of hostage and a credible peace process that result in two sovereign state ? I do agree with my hon . friend ' s well - make point . Gaza have have aid block for two month . Netanyahu say that the population may be move for their own safety — safety from whom ? can the Minister explain what further diplomatic consequence Israel will face if it continue down this road ? my hon . friend be right to centre on the safety of the palestinian people . diplomacy in relation to this situation continue at pace . I will not provide a running commentary from the Dispatch Box , but I can assure he that we be in direct contact with the israeli Government on these question and with our ally to discuss next step . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . during Prime Minister ' s question last Wednesday , I be sit behind the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . I make some comment , and I learn the lesson that the microphone in this place be very good and pick up comment make by those sit directly behind hon . member . the comment that I make related to the second earning of the hon . member for Clacton , declare in his entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . a Reform UK social medium account digitally manipulate those comment to give the appearance that I have describe the hon . Member use a four - letter expletive . this be misinformation . it be fake news . it be trumpian tactic . it be report to Elon Musk ' s x ; no response be receive . if footage in this House be allow to be digitally manipulate for political end in the name of member of this House , that put at risk the proceeding in this House and , I believe , put at risk democracy . I have raise this point of order to put the fact on the public record so that my constituent and everyone else know what actually happen , and to seek your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on what I should do . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . it be not a matter for the Chair , but as member on both side of the House will know , download and share clip of proceeding in the Chamber be subject to condition of use , and clip should not be manipulate in such a way as to be misleading . may I suggest that the hon . member raise the matter with the director of parliamentary audio and video as a matter of urgency ? Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority ( Review ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to review the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority ; and for connected purpose . from time to time , this House have ask itself the question : what value do we place on support for the victim of violent crime ? I believe that this be the right time to ask ourselves that question again . victim support can take many form , include non - financial measure . we have get well , but we must get well still , at recognise the lifelong impact that violent crime have on a person . victim would benefit from well sharing of information about support service , both public and voluntary , and the process for access NHS diagnostic and therapeutic support . that information sharing should start with the police , the ambulance service and the Crown Prosecution Service , and I be pleased to hear recently from the CPS west midland region about the enhanced victim support that be now in place . nevertheless , there will always be case in which financial loss have occur , or financial remedy be a necessary or otherwise appropriate mean of provide some measure of justice for those who have suffer assault . I think that member in all part of the House would wholeheartedly endorse the principle that , whenever possible , the perpetrator of violent crime should pay the cost of restitution . indeed , it be a welcome and remarkable achievement that the amount recover to fund support service through the victim surcharge — first introduce in 2007 — have nearly double over the last four year . however , the criminal injury compensation scheme exist because some offender lack , or can not be prove to possess , the asset or revenue to pay those cost — the so - call straw man of the justice system — and in still more case , the perpetrator of violence be never identify . crime statistic notoriously do not tell the full story , but in the West Midlands police force area , nearly one in five violent assault be not prosecute because no suspect can be name . I commend the chief constable , Craig Guildford , and the police and crime commissioner , Simon Foster , for their success in increase the number and the share of identified assailant , but the point stand . the animate force behind the current criminal injury compensation scheme be a Birmingham magistrate and the first secretary of the Howard League for Penal Reform , Margery Fry , who lead a campaign in the 1950 under the clarion call of " Justice for Victims . " she argue that criminal injury could not be narrowly consider to be a private matter between the assailant and the victim . just as we provide for each other in time of sickness through national insurance , so too , she argue , a duty be owe by the state when it fail to prevent one citizen from injure another . in her word , " the State … can not disown all responsibility for its occasional failure to protect . " today that same principle be set out by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority , which say that payment be sometimes need as an " acknowledgement of harm and an important gesture of public sympathy . " the criminal injury compensation scheme be now an integral part of the justice system , even if it be — as the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , put it last week — something of a " Cinderella service " . nothing that I say today be intend as a criticism of the staff of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority ; they work hard in difficult circumstance , give that staff number have fall by a fifth since the current iteration of the scheme be introduce in 2012 . the civil service people survey show that they take pride and find professional fulfilment in their work , and , as someone who once receive an award from the scheme , I remain grateful to they . important and positive improvement have be make since , six year ago , the Victims ' Commissioner publish an excoriate report . let I say at this point how welcome it be to see the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , in her place . I know that she care deeply about victim support as well as have specialist knowledge of this issue , and I be grateful to she for her thoughtful response and conversation about it . however , it be also clear that failing remain within the system , as we hear last week when member across party contribute to a debate in Westminster Hall . I draw particular attention today to the delay that too many applicant still experience ; a lack of signposting or integration with wide support service , and a general lack of public awareness of the scheme itself ; the trauma of dog attack on postal worker and other victim by new and ban breed , the victim of which be mostly ineligible for compensation follow change to the scheme in 2012 ; the recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse ; a supposedly £ 500 , 000 - a - year hardship fund , establish 13 year ago , that be now essentially a dead letter — the criterion be so restrictive that no payment have be make from it in the last seven year ; and the tariff system itself , as many serious and life - change injury be not cover at all . it be true that the upper cap on the scheme be generous by international standard , but the low limit of £ 1 , 000 have be freeze in cash term since 1992 . my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) refer in this place to annex B of the scheme , which define a " crime of violence " as include " a sexual assault to which a person do not in fact consent " . those be word and idea from another age . even if the court now adopt a more informed interpretation , the continued presence of that definition can only cause harm , and it must be strike from the scheme . these problem — and I believe , on the basis of my own casework and that of other member , that they do to an extent persist — impose a heavy burden on the victim of crime . like some other member , I bear the physical scar of violent crime , alongside other scar of a different and more subtle kind . I have speak previously , in another debate , about that experience , and I do not intend to repeat those word today . it be enough to ask hon . member to take it on trust that delay , the seemingly arbitrary rule of the scheme , the manner of the communication , and , sometimes , poor decision making can add to the sum of the pain that victim feel — a pain that can only be partially outweigh by the release that the end of the criminal injury process bring . a perpetrator might evade justice , but it be part of the nature of the trauma response that , at a slight or unexpected prompting , a victim may be compel to relive that crime again and again . that be why the Victims ' Commissioner have call for an overarching review of the scheme to establish " whether it actually fulfil its state remit : to acknowledge the harm suffer by victim of violent crime who have no other access to compensation , and to provide redress as part of a just and compassionate response . " that be what the Bill , which I beg leave to introduce , would achieve . the legislation would set out a simple requirement for a fundamental review , and for Ministers to report back to the House with proposal for further scrutiny and debate . I can not stand here and claim that easy answer exist to all these question . although I note that , to the good of my calculation , the cost of the scheme appear to be fall in real term , we live in straiten financial time . that be why it be well for reform of the scheme to be carry out in a deliberative manner , on the basis of accurate and recent evidence , and with the need of victim as the primary concern . to that end , I take heart from the Minister ' s statement ; although she say that the Government do not plan change to the scheme " at this time " , she go on to say : " the clear message to I be that we need change , and I will be consider how Government can well provide the support that victim need and deserve . " I also take heart from the Prime Minister ' s statement of personal support for the victim of violent crime when this matter be raise with he a fortnight ago by my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) . this issue touch the life of people in every one of our constituency . no amount of money can return someone to their mental or physical state prior to an assault , but a well - function , fair and compassionate scheme can bring victim some measure of justice . question put and agree to . order , that Laurence Turner , Charlotte Nichols , Michael Wheeler , Andy Slaughter , Warinder Juss , Antonia Bance , Chris Bloore , Catherine Atkinson , Kevin McKenna , Mark Sewards , Tim Roca and Alistair Strathern present the Bill . Laurence Turner accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June , and to be print ( Bill 231 ) . victory in Europe and victory over Japan : 80th anniversary I beg to move , that this House have consider the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe and victory over Japan . I be honour to be open today ' s debate as we come together as a House and a country to mark 80 year since victory in Europe on Thursday 8 May . on 15 August , we will mark victory over Japan . in May 1940 , in his first speech as Prime Minister , Churchill proclaim , " let we go forward together with our united strength . " — [ Official Report , 13 May 1940 ; Vol . 360 , c . 1502 . ] that be what the country do . that generation ' s united strength carry they through six year of war , six year of suffering and six year of sacrifice to preserve the way of life that we enjoy and the value that we hold dear today . from the evacuation of Dunkirk to the battle of Britain and the blitz , we remember the brave service personnel from Great Britain and the Commonwealth who serve their country , and those who pay the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom . we thank you and we remember you . we remember those on the home front , the evacuated child and the woman who step into essential role . I think of my Aunt Kath , my grandad ' s cousin , who go to work for the first time in a factory , and of the Bevin boy — many from Barnsley — who work down the pit to power the war effort . we be proud to remember their contribution and the last legacy of peace that they fight so hard to secure — today and always . I notice an oversight in the Minister ' s contribution : Northern Ireland make a very significant contribution . there be never any conscription need in Northern Ireland , and the great thing about it be that the woman fill the gap . they work in aircraft factory , at Harland and Wolff , in engineering , on the farm , in the field and in rope factory . some 12 , 500 woman make a contribution to support their man at the front . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right , and I will come on to speak about Northern Ireland later in my contribution . I be delighted to visit Northern Ireland a few week ago to see at first hand how it will commemorate VE Day . I be sure that member will share how their constituency or family play their part in the war effort . this year ' s commemoration to mark VE Day and VJ Day have be , and will continue to be , lead by those with first - hand experience of the war , and the Government be honour to be work with veteran and the Royal British Legion to bring this to life . however , as we mark 80 year between today and the end of the war , the number of people with live memory of it be become ever small . this year ' s anniversary may be the last when veteran who contribute directly to the victory can be in attendance , and when young people can speak to family member who contribute to the effort . I be lucky to have grow up hear story from my grandad , who serve in the Royal Air Force , but the generation bear today may not have the same opportunity to connect directly with veteran . it be up to we to keep their memory alive . the Minister talk about victory . will she join I in pay tribute to Corporal Thomas Priday , from the 1st Battalion of the King ' s Shropshire Light Infantry , who be one of the first soldier kill in world war two ? while she be pay tribute to he and his relative , will she also pay tribute to the Shropshire Royal Horse Artillery and the Shropshire Yeomanry , which have a distinguished campaign in Italy ? I join the right hon . gentleman in pay tribute . he make an incredibly important point , which he have put on the record , and I be really pleased to echo his sentiment . as I be say , it be up to all of we to keep the collective memory alive as time march forward . as we celebrate 80 year since the liberation of our continent from a fascist , tyrannical regime , we must be forever grateful to the brave soul who fight and fall for our freedom . do the Minister agree that we in Europe be once again face by a regime that be hellbent on subjugation and tyranny ? we must stand up to the aggressor and bully , and remember that peace be hard win . my hon . friend make an incredibly important point . I be join by the Defence Secretary , who also hear his point . I be enjoy the Minister ' s contribution . do she agree that the reason we observe 80th anniversary be that they can be veteran - lead ? sadly , that will not be the case in 2039 . do she also agree that it be important that we start to plan for the centenary of the second world war ? have be heavily involve in the centenary of the great war , I can say that the UK begin its preparation just a little bit too late compare with our friend and ally . the right hon . Gentleman make an incredibly important point , and I speak to the head of the Imperial War Museum about this issue yesterday . we absolutely need to start to plan now . the Minister be be incredibly generous . she mention the Imperial War Museum . do she share my regret at its decision to close the gallery display over 200 Victoria Crosses and George Crosses , which be collect by Lord Ashcroft and give to the gallery for permanent public display ? could she perhaps ask the Imperial War Museum to reconsider that decision ? I absolutely hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s point , and I know that we have speak about it previously . the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism have have conversation with both Lord Ashcroft and the Imperial War Museum . he be the Minister responsible for museum . I will relay those comment to he , and I will follow up to the right hon . gentleman in writing . I will speak about our national remembrance and celebration this week in a moment , but I will touch first on how important the collective memory and legacy be . this Government have launch a number of initiative to ensure that every generation — young and old — can connect with the history of their family and community . " letter to Loved Ones " have encourage schoolchildren and family member to explore their family history by look for old letter and artefact to help they learn about life during wartime , and to share they on our website . my mum and dad discover some lovely letter between my grandparent during the war and just after , when they have get marry . to inspire young people to learn about what life be like during wartime Britain , we also announce " our Shared Story " , which bring together a range of educational resource . they include material for school from the Royal British Legion call " I ' ll remember " , which focus on conversation between veteran and young people . People across the country will also be invite to watch " the Next Morning " , a brand - new National Theatre production write by award - win screenwriter and playwright James Graham . this short film focus on the hope , dream and ambition of young people after the second world war . I have write to school across my constituency to share these material , and like all of the community engagement resource , they be design to run through the year to VJ Day and beyond . for instance , the Tip Top town initiative be a call to action for community and volunteer group to get their town or village ready for the commemoration , whether that be with bunting , litter picking or crochet bonnet for letterboxe . I spot crochet bonnet in Hoyland and Darfield in my area this weekend . to deliver the VE and VJ 80 programme of event and national engagement , the Government have work with an array of brilliant partner , include the Imperial War Museums , the National Theatre , the RBL , Atlantic Productions , Arts Council England , the Together Coalition , the BBC and , of course , all the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and Ministry of Defence official and service personnel . I would like to express my gratitude for their commitment , and I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all those currently serve in our armed force . I will add one more to that list of excellent organisation support the programme , and that be the National Memorial Arboretum in Alrewas . it be really important that we celebrate VE Day and VJ Day in Staffordshire , where Reginald Mitchell , the designer of the Spitfire , be bear — in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) — and where RAF Lichfield , the busy airfield in Staffordshire during the second world war , be site , just down the road from where we will be celebrate in Alrewas . my hon . friend be absolutely right . later in my speech , I will talk about the National Memorial Arboretum , which I be pleased to visit a couple of year ago . we want the whole of the UK to feel include and involve in VE Day and VJ Day celebration , wherever they live and whoever they be . event to mark the occasion begin yesterday . the Cenotaph be drape in flag overnight into Monday for the first time since it be unveil in 1920 . that be follow by the military procession , which include over 1 , 300 armed force personnel and uniformed youth , and it be accompany by a flypast lead by a second world war RAF Lancaster and feature the Red Arrows . indeed , when the news of peace in Europe arrive here in 1945 , spontaneous celebration break out in the street . those party be replicate by street party up and down the country yesterday , and I be delighted to join his Majesty the king and member of the royal family to meet veteran at a tea party at Buckingham Palace . may I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the fact that it be two year to the day since his Majesty the King ' s coronation ? I be also pleased to attend the Imperial War Museums celebration aboard HMS Belfast . I know community across the country will have come together in celebration , and I thank all mayor and local authority for the local event they have be lead and will continue to lead . this evening , iconic building will be light up as beacon of strength and national unity , symbolise the return of light after an era of blackout last six year and echo the moment when the face of Big Ben be relit . from today until Remembrance Day in November , almost 30 , 000 ceramic poppy on loan from the Imperial War Museums will cascade from the Tower of London , recreate the world war one centenary installation in 2014 . the poppy represent a wound at the heart of the Tower , which survive the blitz , and they be be unveil this evening as we speak . tomorrow , a special performance by the Parliament choir will take place . the Imperial War Museums and the National Theatre be work together to showcase " letter to Loved Ones " and to premier their new film " the Next Morning " , highlight the huge impact that live history can have . on VE Day itself , an official service of remembrance will take place at Westminster Abbey , before celebration conclude with the VE Day concert . the concert , show live on the BBC , will mirror this with a mix of music , poetry and the spoken word to reflect our proud national story , value and culture . through these event , we can make sure that the legacy of those who give their life will always have the same profound impact . this be a particularly poignant debate for I to attend today , because this morning I attend the funeral of Betty Webb , a 101 - year - old former Bletchley Park codebreaker who epitomise the very good of this great generation . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to and thank Betty , as we lay she to rest , for the sacrifice and commitment she provide to the war effort ? I absolutely join the hon . gentleman in pay tribute to Betty . I thank she for her service , as I be sure the whole House do . I thank my counterpart in the Scottish , Welsh and Northern Ireland Governments for their support and engagement . thank to they , event and service will take place in every devolve nation . to name a few , Northern Ireland will host a beacon - lighting ceremony . I be pleased to take up the invitation from the hon . member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) to see how her community will mark the occasion . service of commemoration be take place in Wales , such as the national service of thanksgiving tomorrow evening and the VE Day anniversary parade in Swansea on the 11th . I look forward to meet my counterpart in Cardiff next week . this evening , the Royal British Legion Scotland and Poppyscotland will host the Scotland ' s Salute concert at the Usher Hall . I be pleased to visit the scottish war memorial in Edinburgh a few week ago to pay tribute to the scottish soldier who pay the ultimate sacrifice . the Minister be make an excellent speech . as I celebrate VE Day with my Slough constituent — for example , in Britwell and at the event organise by the Royal British Legion in Cippenham — we reflect on the contribution of our family member , include my great - grandfather , my grandmother ' s brother and other , who fight during those conflict . do the Minister agree that those army fight for our freedom closely reflect and be representative of modern - day Britain , and we must use that very fact when counter those who espouse hatred and division ? my hon . friend make a really important point , and I echo it . as we reflect throughout this week , we must of course remember everyone who support the war effort , particularly those in the Channel Islands whose courage be weave into the fabric of our freedom . the Channel Islands be not liberate until 9 May , and their story be one of hardship and perseverance . to mark liberation day , the Ministry of Justice will be fly the flag of Jersey and Guernsey in commemoration . I will be visit Jersey and Sark at the end of this week to commemorate liberation day . I look forward to participate in the commemoration , and to meet and hear about the soldier , civilian and child who sacrifice so much . the second world war be truly that — a world war — and Britain would not be the country we know it to be today if it be not for the Commonwealth troop who fight tirelessly for the ally victory . I be pleased to be work with the Commonwealth War Graves Commission as part of the VE Day and VJ Day commemoration to ensure that the commemoration be worldwide . its global " for Evermore " tour will honour and shine a light on the story of those from across the world who fight in the second world war , visit Belgium , Italy , Malta , France and the Netherlands , and place across the UK , to bring the story of british and Commonwealth soldier to life . it be important to note that many of these service personnel continue to fight in the Pacific long after the war on the european front have come to an end . we will mark that contribution again on VJ Day on 15 August . on the first VJ Day 80 year ago , Clement Attlee , the Prime Minister at the time , say to this House : " thus the long , grievous war be at an end , and peace on earth have be restore . " — [ Official Report , 15 August 1945 ; Vol . 413 , c . 48 . ] indeed , those six year of war see the generation before we make tremendous sacrifice to preserve the way of life we enjoy today . on VJ Day , the Royal British Legion will lead the nation in honour those who fight and die during the war in the far east with a service at the National Memorial Arboretum . the legacy of those who give or risk their life will always have a profound impact , and it be up to all of we to keep their story alive . as the poet Edmund Blunden write in his poem " V Day " , " once more we have come through . " moment of national unity live long in our memory — from the Olympics to her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II ' s jubilee . they bring we together and they remind we of our communal value , how we pull together in time of adversity , how we show compassion to our neighbour and how we put our community before division in time of need . I be grateful that we , as a House and as a country , have have the opportunity to create another moment of such unity , today and throughout the year , as we remember that great generation , all they give and all they fight for . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for her excellent speech and welcome all that the Government have do in preparation for VE Day and VJ Day . the 80th anniversary of VE Day and VJ Day be a time for the nation to come together and celebrate the conclusion of the second world war — a war in which good triumph over evil and liberated million of people from the horror of fascism . on VE Day , million rejoice across the western world , relieve that year of conflict and immense hardship be finally come to an end . on 8 May 1945 , british people — include her Royal Highness , the then Princess Elizabeth — flock to the street to celebrate the defeat of Nazi Germany and the liberation of Europe . People dance long into the night , attend street party and look forward to a bright future . we must not forget , however , that as those party wear on , troop from Britain and the Commonwealth , as well as our ally , continue to take the struggle to Japan . it be not until August 1945 that there be victory over Japan . VJ Day mark the conclusion of the war in the far east , and we must never forget the sacrifice of the troop who help to liberate million of people from imperial Japan . one of my constituent , Pam Gillespie , often lead the VJ Day commemoration in Harlow because her father , George Money , be a far east prisoner of war . will the shadow Minister join I in thank people like Pam ? do he agree that it be hugely important that we recognise VJ Day and that , while the war in Europe may have be over , there be still a war go on and many serviceman be still give their life ? on this point , the hon . Gentleman and I be friend ; I thank Pam and her family for their sacrifice and for all that happen on VJ Day . VE Day and VJ Day must forever be remember and etch into our memory . I be sure this whole House will agree that it be important that we remember these historic day for year to come . this year , 2025 , be especially important , as it may well be one of the last year troop who serve in the second world war be still alive . I want to ask the Minister , on behalf of the shadow Secretary of State , if she will comment directly on his campaign to bring home a statue of Vera Lynn . the late Sir David Amess launch an appeal to create a lasting memorial to Dame Vera Lynn , whose song keep our troop ' morale high , often in time of huge uncertainty and great peril . during the battle of Britain , when it look like the Nazis might invade Britain at any moment , she really do keep the bluebird singe over the " White Cliffs of Dover " . the committee need to raise £ 350 , 000 to complete the bronze process and bring the memorial home from the Czech Republic . could the Minister confirm that this fitting tribute will indeed be bring home ? every man and woman who serve and serve in our armed force stand and stand up for Britain and the precious value and right for which we have fight for generation : democracy , liberty and the rule of law . we be forever in debt to the brave soul who fight to defend this country — as the saying go , freedom be not free . to all those serve , those who have serve and those who have sacrifice , we say thank you . yesterday , thousand of people descend upon the Mall to watch all three service march in the excellent VE Day parade . I be sure the whole House will join I in pay tribute to everyone who take part , but especially to the veteran who make the occasion so special . today , her Majesty the Queen will visit the Tower of London to see the 30 , 000 poppy on display to mark and reflect the sacrifice make by so many in the second world war . here in Parliament , there will be a celebratory concert in Westminster Hall , where the fantastic parliamentary choir will perform alongside some special guest . on VE Day itself , nearly 2 , 000 people , include their Majesties the King and the Queen and a host of veteran , will mark the 80th anniversary with a special service at Westminster Abbey . in addition to the fantastic array of national event be hold to mark VE Day and VJ Day , do the shadow Minister agree that we have some really fantastic community event in our constituency , organise by local community group — include Project Purley , which organise a fantastic celebration that I attend on Monday — which will give we a wonderful opportunity to celebrate and reflect on the contribution of those who fight for our freedom ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right : it be the community event that really do define the day for I . she make an excellent point , as I lead on to in my speech . over the come day , alongside the national event , thousand of people up and down the country will also commemorate this historic occasion with street party , church service and concert . in my own constituency , we proudly remember our hero . every year in Meriden , in the very heart of England , hundred of cyclist come to honour the cyclist who lose their life in the first and second world war . on Thursday , I will join the mayor of Solihull , who will be light a beacon at Elmdon church , and later in the week I will join Visit Knowle ' s street party . I pay special tribute to the Solihull Observer , which print a special edition to commemorate VE Day , with story of the hero who come from my part of the world . these event , and many other across the country , truly show Britain at its very good . in remember the second world war , we must remember that our victory be forge on our relationship with not just our ally , but our friend in the Commonwealth . troop come from many different nation and different faith from across the world — Christian , Hindu , muslim , jewish , Sikh and other — to fight side by side , irrespective of their race or religion , and to stand up for the value that we all hold dear . their common goal be to stand against tyranny and evil and to stand for freedom . the conclusion of the second world war mark the end of the last major conflict in Europe until Putin ' s barbaric invasion of Ukraine . while we rightly celebrate the end of the second world war today , we must not forget the horrific and brutal conflict take place in Europe . I be sure we be all move by the ukrainian troop take part in yesterday ' s parade . it reflect our country ' s deep and profound commitment to their noble cause , and once more show that this country will not stand by while brutal autocrat seek to impose themselves on Europe . while I be deeply proud of the St George ' s flag and the Union Jack , I be also proud of the ukrainian flag , which have fly over council building across the UK as a reminder that this country will always stand up to bully and come to the aid of those who stand for democracy and freedom . I thank the shadow Minister for give way — it be unusual for I to make two intervention in the same debate . reflect on my family ' s experience of the second world war , my taid — my maternal grandfather , who be Welsh — fight in the war , but his war do not end in 1945 . he do not come home until 1947 , because he be part of the peacekeeping mission in both Italy and Greece . do the shadow Minister agree that when we look at the situation in Ukraine , it be important that we remember Britain ' s role not just in win the second world war , but in win the peace , and how important that will be in the future ? I could not have put it well myself . the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point about the work that be happen now and will continue to happen go forward . if the House will indulge I , I also note that Reform ' s flag ban policy would also prevent council building from fly armed force flag — a reminder that populism do not equal patriotism . to conclude , in time of global uncertainty , reflect on the second world war lend we some much - need perspective . remember the history of the war and the cause of the war be absolutely essential , and I be hugely supportive of the Government ' s work to celebrate the anniversary of VE Day and VJ Day . I look forward to member ' contribution . rise — member will be able to see how many have rise to speak in this evening ' s debate , so there will be a four - minute time limit after the contribution from the Front Bench . as we mark the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe Day and later this summer celebrate the anniversary of victory over Japan Day , I be remind of the extraordinary bravery show by so many , include our very own Ray Statham , from Newhall , in my constituency . eighty year ago , Ray be in the english channel support the D - day landing ; now , as he approach his 103rd birthday , we celebrate not only his longevity but the legacy of service he represent . Ray serve aboard HMS Indefatigable with the Royal Navy , and I know the whole House will want to join I in wish he a very happy birthday and offer he our deep thank for his service to our country . I would also like to recognise Ken Ash from Repton , who serve with the Royal Signals , and my own grandad , Frederick , or Fred , Palmer , who serve in the Royal Logistics Corps in the Army . Winston Churchill say that the surrender of Nazi Germany be " the signal for the great outburst of joy in the history of mankind " , and while for many that be true , for countless other , the end of the war be mark by quiet sorrow for those who never come home . across the UK and overseas , the grave of those who make the ultimate sacrifice be lovingly maintain by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . we have one such war grave in Swadlincote , in Church Gresley cemetery . thank to Glyn Jackson and Joanne Abbassi , we have a folder of the name of those who rest in peace there . I be so grateful to Shelly Lynn , who lead tour of the cemetery , for share those name with I . I have write to the Secretary of State for Defence and to the Minister for Veterans and People with their name in a roll call , ask they to join I in share our gratitude for their service . each of their name be a reminder of a family leave behind , a future never fulfil . what strike I most be their youth . so many be in their early 20 , some just teenager . they have dream , career and family ahead of they , and they give all of that up for we . for I , this roll call carry an even more personal note . many brave man and woman serve in the Royal Air Force as volunteer reserve . I have the privilege of take part in the armed force parliamentary scheme with the RAF this year , allow I a small glimpse of the professionalism and sacrifice that define our Royal Air Force personnel to this day . as we commemorate VE Day and VJ Day , let we remember those who fight and fall not only in victory , but in hope , and let we resolve always to be worthy of the freedom that they give we . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . on the eve of war , liberal leader Archibald Sinclair warn : " a policy which impose injustice on a small and weak nation and tyranny on free man and woman can never be the foundation of last peace . " he be speak about the Munich agreement , which see european power cede czechoslovakian territory to Hitler . nobody in this House would describe the brave nation or the people of Ukraine as small and weak , but with the spectre of the dictator Vladimir Putin loom large on the eastern edge of Europe and President Trump threaten deal to carve up ukrainian territory , Sinclair ' s word resonate today as they do then . the wartime generation know the cost of give ground to tyrant , as they celebrate 80 year ago this week . the good way to honour those who fight for peace be to redouble our effort to preserve it . those people , together with today ' s serve personnel and veteran , carry forward the legacy of service inherit from that extraordinary wartime generation . in their memory , this anniversary must be a moment not just of reflection , but of a renew sense of responsibility . this country be at its good when it work with its ally , not when it shrink from the world . this year be very likely the final big celebration for the veteran of world war two who be still with we . there be 360 name on Cheltenham ' s war memorial , and many civilian in my town also die in bombing raid . on VE Day , after six long year at war , people in my constituency and around the country take to the street to celebrate . at Whaddon primary school , child wave Union Jack flag . People line up outside the municipal office in the town centre to hear Winston Churchill deliver his VE Day speech . an effigy of Adolf Hitler be burn . the celebration reportedly run well past midnight , which be rather late for a genteel Cotswolds spa town in the 1940 . it be right that we in this House pause to remember the scale of the sacrifice and the legacy of the victory that that generation give we . this anniversary be not simply about mark date in a calendar , but a chance to say thank you to the dwindle number of survive veteran and to all those who have serve , suffer , and rebuild . today I think of Lorna , a 105 - year - old I recently meet at St Ives Court in Cheltenham and very possibly my old constituent . she tell I proudly about her contribution to the war effort as an intelligence analyst in Whitehall . I think of all those who serve in the Gloucestershire Regiment and I think of my two grandfather , both of whom serve — one in the Navy and one in the RAF . this anniversary be about ensure that we continue to stand up for what they stand for . we must use this moment to recommit ourselves to the international co - operation and diplomacy that help to deliver 80 year without a third world war . it be a peace that have be threaten by Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . it be no coincidence that european unity be bear from the ashe of the second world war . it have be the great peacebuilding project in history and , in the face of the threat that confront we today , we must once again stand shoulder to shoulder with our european ally . that mean support NATO , stand up to aggression , and strengthen the rule of international law . that do not mean , as some have callously suggest , that Ukraine should accept a deal to cede some of its territory to Putin . that would be a betrayal of the principle for which the wartime generation fight . that include those who suffer in the far east . they have often receive less recognition than those who serve in Europe . the conflict there continue for nearly three month after VE Day , in punish condition and at immense human cost . yet in too many commemoration , their story be not hear . we owe these individual our deep gratitude , and it be good that we be remember they this VE Day . that gratitude to all those who have serve must be express not just in word , but in action : action to defend our democracy ; and action to defend the british value of liberty , tolerance and respect for the rule of law . respect our veteran mean look after they properly after their service be over — look after their mental health , their housing , and their right to compensation . this anniversary be not only about how we treat veteran , but about how we tell the story of the war and whose voice we include . the role of Commonwealth force in secure victory be also often overlook . some 2 . 5 million indian troop serve in the second world war , many of they in the gruelling Burma campaign . troop from Africa , the Caribbean , and across the empire fight valiantly under british command . as a Liberal and an internationalist , I believe that we must be proud of they . it be only right that , today and this week , we recognise the contribution of our Commonwealth soldier . beyond the parade and ceremony , we must embed this full history into our national consciousness , because remembrance without inclusion be incomplete . my constituency have the large Commonwealth war grave site in the north of England . we regularly put on fantastic event throughout the year , include the Remembrance Sunday service and Christmas service . will my hon . friend join I in congratulate those involve for the fantastic work they do in make sure that we do not forget ? absolutely . the second - good spa town in the country , I be sure , celebrate VE Day wonderfully well . this anniversary arrive at a time of renew global instability . from Ukraine to the middle east , we be once again remind that peace be fragile — that it can not be take for grant . the international order build in the aftermath of 1945 be under more strain than ever . the world be more dangerous than at any point since the cold war . member in all part of the House be so proud that many of our parliamentary colleague have serve in the armed force , and we all stand with our armed force . finally , I wish to express my party ' s strong support for the programme of national commemoration plan this year . we can all be very proud of what be happen . these event give we all a meaningful opportunity to reflect on the courage , resilience , and unity that define the war effort , on the frontline and on the home front alike . let we mark this 80th anniversary not just with solemnity , but with resolve . let we listen to the story of those who serve , from the soldier to the evacuee , from the factory worker to the codebreaker , and let we make sure that every part of their legacy be carry forward . let we honour they not just with word , but with action . as with so many town and village across the UK , brave resident of my constituency , include my own grandparent , be involve in all aspect of the war effort . our town and village answer the call for service — service that take so many form . early in the war , Coatbridge host the Polish 1st Field Artillery Regiment for a short time after the evacuation of France . so warm be the hospitality offer by the local that the regiment later adopt Coatbridge as the mother garrison , and the town ' s coat of arm be emblazon on their regimental standard . despite their own hardship and struggle , local people in my community and across the Monklands area engage in whole raft of activity to support the war effort , include knitwear drive , charity concert and cinema gala , to extend support not just for our own effort , but to aid other , include the Russian Red Cross Society . nowhere be that deep sense of common cause more apparent than in the support offer by the woman in Coatbridge to the woman of besiege Leningrad . I think those woman would be frankly ashamed of the action take today by Putin in Ukraine . when reflect on these year , it be impossible not to think of our own family and the role that they play alongside their neighbour and friend . they be ordinary people engage in extraordinary act . I think of how privileged I be to hear their story and to reflect on those that go untold . I think of my maternal grandfather , Edwin Simpson , who fight with the RAF and whose wing I be privileged to carry with I today , along with his squadron photo take at RAF Yatesbury in Wiltshire in 1944 — a crew that span the country and the Commonwealth . I think of my paternal grandmother , Ethel McNally , who spend the war as a crane driver and be more than a little irk when after the war she be replace by return service personnel — something she never tired of shout about . the role of woman have be well - discuss and will be throughout this debate . at the war ' s conclusion , the provost of Coatbridge town council recognise woman for their role in the war effort in munition and weapon factory , which be themselves dangerous environment . in the same message , the provost tell of how the armed force have save the world for democracy , with their courage , steadfastness , tenacity and grit . Provost Pirie ' s tribute be all the more moving as he have lose his son Lieutenant Sydney Robertson Pirie of the 1st London Scottish Regiment just one month before VE Day . the Minister mention party , some of which last day in Bellshill and they be well document locally . no level of gratitude can be enough to thank those who serve and who die , include the hundred whose name live on the memorial throughout my constituency , for the peace that they secure in 1945 . we honour those who die and those who live in that great generation . we commend their service and their sacrifice . at the outbreak of the second world war , the National Service ( Armed Forces ) Act 1939 introduce conscription for all man age between 18 and 41 . like so many of his generation , my grandfather Harry Fry Davis Reed , bear in Plymouth in 1913 , receive his call - up paper . on 20 June 1940 , he report for duty in Exeter . he join the newly form 12th Battalion of the Devonshire Regiment , or the devon . it be a battalion largely make up of conscript serve for the duration of the war . just one month later , the Nazi bombing of Plymouth begin , and the city he call home , where he have grow up , live and work , come under relentless attack . friend , neighbour and fellow Plymothians be kill . street be destroy , and entire community be change forever . in the early year of the war , my grandfather help defend the coastal area of what be now my constituency of Exmouth and Exeter East . that knowledge speak to I when I walk along local beach at home . I often reflect on what it must have feel like to guard those shore under the threat of invasion , not know what would come next , only that you have to stand your ground . by 1943 , the 12th Battalion have be redesignate as a glider - bear infantry unit within the 6th Airborne Division . their mission be to fly into combat aboard Horsa glider , which be unarmoured , fragile aircraft make from wood and canvas . the thought of fall from the sky into enemy territory under fire in such vulnerable aircraft be almost unimaginable , but that be exactly what they do . in 1944 , my grandfather deploy to France for D - day . he leave behind his young wife — my grandmother — and their two - year - old son , my father . while he go to war , his family remain under the shadow of the Luftwaffe as the bombing of Plymouth continue . thousand more Plymothians would lose their life . when Harry return , it be to a city transform by devastation and to a community that have endure untold suffering . but the war be far from over . in March 1945 , his battalion take part in Operation Varsity — the airborne crossing of the Rhine . to this day , it remain the large airborne operation ever conduct on a single day in one location . in the final week of the war they reach northern Germany , just south of Wismar . there they maintain their kit , keep sharp and wait , not know what horror lay ahead . victory in Europe be declare on 8 May 1945 . the devon be grant leave , and many attend a thanksgive service in a nearby village . relief no doubt fill the air , but the war ' s final chapter be still to be write . in the day that follow , they come face to face with the unimaginable : the atrocity of the Nazi concentration camp . those image would no doubt remain etched in their mind forever . I never have the chance to meet my grandfather , as he die many year before I be bear , but I be deeply proud of he . his story , while personal , be not unique . that be exactly why I share it . up and down our United Kingdom , family carry story just like this — story of ordinary people thrust into extraordinary circumstance , and story of courage , endurance , loss and love . these story be not rare ; they be weave into the fabric of our nation . though I have serve in the Royal Marines and experience war myself , I still find it hard to truly comprehend what that generation go through . their sacrifice , on a scale that few of we today can fully grasp , be make in the name of freedom , in defence of democracy , and in defiance of tyranny . it be a burden carry for all of we . to that generation — our great generation — we owe a debt that can never truly be repay . but we can remember , and we can honour , and we can ensure that their legacy live on . because of their courage , we have live in peace . for that , I will always be grateful . we will remember they . rise — Order . I remind member that there be a time limit on speech . I be proud to speak in this debate on behalf of the home of the British Army . in Aldershot and Farnborough , VE Day and VJ Day be weave into the very fabric of our community . my word today have be shape by constituent who have share with I their memory and specialist knowledge , include Iris Munro , who tell I her story as a 16 - year - old celebrate VE day in her home town of Aldershot , and Paul H . Vickers , a military historian who live in Aldershot and who be a Ministry of Defence librarian for 40 year . I thank they for their help as I try to do the story from our town justice . Aldershot stand at the very centre of the war effort . it be from its barrack and training ground that thousand of brave man and woman be prepare for service across Europe , north Africa and beyond . it be there that troop be forge , not just in skill but in spirit , and it be there that wound soldier find safety and solace in the Cambridge and Connaught hospital . my constituent Iris Munro , now 96 , be the young of nine child , and every one of her family play a role — her four brother fight across the globe in the european and far eastern theatre , and her father , mother and sister active on the home front . she vividly remember the terror of sleep under the stair as Aldershot be bomb , and how Lord Haw - Haw single out the town as he try to demoralise the population . she also recall the town ' s defiance and spirit of resistance , as she sing " there ' ll always be an England " to entertain her neighbour when they seek cover in the dirt - floor underground shelter as the air raid warning siren wail overhead . Aldershot give the allied campaign strength in its most literal sense , play a vital role in the preparation for the D - day landing and serve as a hub for canadian troop , more than 320 , 000 of whom pass through its gate during the war . Farnborough be the beat heart of Britain ' s aeronautical innovation . the Royal Aircraft Establishment base there become a crucible of scientific brilliance . it be in Farnborough that engineer and researcher develop the technology that give our pilot superiority in the sky , include radar , advanced aircraft design , and aerodynamic . it be a battle fight not with rifle but with calculation and courage , and it help tilt the balance in the air towards the ally . Farnborough prove that war could be win not only with force but innovation . on 8 May , when news of Germany ' s surrender reach Aldershot , the town be unite in joyful celebration . Fairy light be hang in a " v for victory " formation on the front of home . a pipe band from a canadian unit lead a spontaneous parade , with hundred link arm and singing . Iris remember singe with friend from her youth club , right at the front of the parade , with her mum proudly wave from the sideline . in Farnborough , a grand dance take place at the Royal Aircraft Establishment assembly hall . the music do not stop until 3 o ' clock in the morning . it be not just a celebration — it be release . a lifetime ' s worth of tension and fear be finally let go in laughter , in dance and in community . among those joyful scene , we also have to remember the personal story . I be honour to meet Norman " Norrie " Bartlett on Remembrance Day in Yateley last year . he sadly pass away this March . he join the Navy in 1942 , under age at just 16 , and suffer the extreme cold and danger of both the Arctic and the Atlantic . I be pleased to say that he be well enough , have see both D - day landing and the japanese surrender , to make it to Normandy for the 80th anniversary — order . my apology for not notice the time ; I be be disturb by the Whip . drive around my beautiful constituency , it be hard to tell that the area play such a pivotal role in the second world war . only one active military base remain on the site of the old RAF Driffield at Kelleythorpe , which be now use by cadet and occasionally for other training . back in the 1940 , the countryside of East Yorkshire be litter with airfield . the area play a vital role in take the air war to Germany . I do not have time to go into detail about each base , but I will do my good to give the House a whistlestop tour . RAF Bridlington be make up of a number of unit , include air gunnery school , initial training wing , air - sea rescue and a marine craft unit . just to the north , RAF Bempton be establish as a radar station , become part of the Chain Home Low network . RAF Cottam near Driffield be a satellite base that be use only occasionally for fly and mostly as a bomb storage site . RAF Cowden to the south of Hornsea be an RAF bombing range . we be occasionally remind of its past when bomb disposal team be call in to deal with ordnance unearth by the fast - erode coastline . RAF Hutton Cranswick be develop as a fighter base with many spitfire squadron pass through . it be use not only by the RAF but by the Royal Canadian Air Force and several polish fighter squadron . RAF Catfoss near Brandesburton have a small number of Spitfires and train strike aircraft crew for operation in north Africa and the middle east . Huggate wold be survey for a bomber base , but a well location be find nearby . however , a pop - up airstrip be create at Huggate wold with steel mesh , as it be require for the invasion of Europe . it be Bomber Command that have perhaps leave its legacy in East Yorkshire . with its proximity to Germany , the area be home to hundred of aircraft and crew by man undertake some of the most dangerous mission of the war in the sky over continental Europe . RAF full Sutton , RAF Lissett and RAF Driffield be home to many of those bomber crew : halifax bomber , Wellington bomber and other . the 158 Squadron base at RAF Lissett lose 144 aircraft in just two year , cost the life of 851 airman . they be remember by a fantastic memorial on the Gransmoor Road just outside the village . it be not just bomber air basis . we have RAF Carnaby near Bridlington , which be a particularly important military asset as it be one of only three emergency landing strip in the country . it be 2 . 7 km long and 230 metre wide — five time the normal width . More than 1 , 500 bomber make emergency landing at Carnaby during the war , include the Dambusters , who land there with their grand slam bomb still on board when they be divert due to bad weather over their target in Germany . while the RAF play a vital role in my constituency , the infantryman of the East Yorkshire Regiment also serve with distinction throughout the war . their battalion serve at Dunkirk and in India , Burma , north Africa and Sicily before land in the first wave on gold beach on D - day . despite many casualty on that first day , they achieve all their objective and fight on through Normandy and all the way to Germany . our area also have a french connection as a number of regiment from the Free French army be base at Hornsea under General Leclerc . I be delighted to have have the brief opportunity to highlight East Yorkshire ' s rich wartime history , but I also want to pay tribute to all my constituent currently serve in the armed force and to the 5 , 000 veteran live in the local area . whether in Normandy or Northern Ireland , on land , air or sea : on the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Europe , we thank you for your service and your sacrifice . eighty year ago , Britain celebrate victory in Europe . the war be over , although the real achievement be not just the military triumph but the extraordinary effort that get we there : the unity , the resolve and the national determination to stand up to fascism and defend freedom and democracy . I have think about that a lot over the year , listen to my grandad share memory of his time as a commando during the italian campaign , as I watch my dad leave home to go to the first Gulf war , and again as I serve in Afghanistan . the message of VE Day have stay with I . victory be not just about those serve ; it be about the whole country behind they . when I be in Afghanistan , we face daily attack from rocket , sniper and mortar fire . those moment still come back to I , but I remember just as clearly how our fight on the frontline rely on so many other . during that time , we lose many good soldier and marine tragically , but we learn : our tactic change and military surgeon develop new procedure . the same innovation be happen back home , where our engineer be design mine - resistant vehicle , well body armour and equipment to jam radio - control explosive . that innovation save life . in Ukraine , where I be last month , the same be happen right now . the ukrainian defence industry have go into overdrive to engineer the kit that will help save it from russian aggression . there be no deny that we live in increasingly dangerous time . War be rage on our continent . eighty year on from VE Day , the idea of a last peace in Europe be a fading reality . that be why I support the Government ' s plan to raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , not because it sound tough , but because it be necessary . however , if we be truly serious about security , we must go far than just raise the budget . we must ensure that spending build strength at home . in 1945 , it be british industry in shipyard , foundry and engineering firm that turn the war effort around . HMS Catterick — the ship my grandad serve on before he land at Salerno — be build in Barrow shipyard . industrial heartland like the Black Country make tank , armoured car , weapon and ammunition . those place do not just support the war ; they make victory possible . today the Black Country still have the talent , the tool and the tradition . Somers Forge in Halesowen produce vital equipment for the Royal Navy and B . b . price in Cradley Heath have be forge part for ship , tank and aircraft for generation . they be not relic of the past ; they be the backbone of the future defence industry , because deterrence start long before the first shot be fire . as we be see in Ukraine , a strong and capable military be essential to deter our enemy . this ve day , as we honour those who serve and sacrifice , we also have a duty to ask what country we be build today . be we ready for the challenge ahead ? be we invest in the skill , industry and infrastructure that keep we free 80 year ago ? we owe it to that generation and to the next to be bold , to rebuild our strength at home so we can face threat abroad and to remember that Britain ' s security have always rest not just on the courage of its troop but on the quiet determination of the people and place that back they . that spirit of 1945 — unity , purpose and resilience — be not a memory ; it be a blueprint . it be time that we follow it again . in 1945 , after six long year of hardship , sacrifice and loss , peace return to a continent tear apart by conflict . when the news break in Mid Sussex — in our town and in our village — people gather for street party , share cup of tea at " bring your own cup " celebration , hold thanksgiving service and light bonfire that could be see for mile . there be joy , yes , but there be also reflection , for while victory bring peace , it could never undo the human cost . I recently meet a wonderful charity work hard to highlight the work of a specific group during the war : the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit , who be an essential part of the war effort . among those who serve and die in the PRU be William Comber , a constituent of Mid Sussex at that time . Flight Lieutenant William Edward Comber , the son of William and Emma Comber , be bear in Cuckfield . on join the RAF , he be post to 680 Photographic Reconnaissance Squadron , operate in the Mediterranean . he be take ill on 5 December 1943 and be take to the no . 63 general hospital in Salonika , Greece , where , despite the use of an iron lung , he die of polio on 10 December . we thank he , and I ask the Minister to support a national memorial to the Photo Reconnaissance Unit . we also thank the countless other who serve and give everything for their country . my constituent , James Hares , be one of the brave pilot in the same unit . despite the unit have a death rate of about 48 % — one of the bad of the war — he survive , only to sadly pass away on the journey home . we have hear from so many colleague already how those story be largely untold and how many people do crucial work in help to win the war — order . if member be go to get in during this debate , intervention need to be intervention and not mini - speech . I thank the hon . member for her intervention and for her additional insight into the work of the PRU . come from an Army family — the kind that take I , age seven in 1984 , on a tour of the D - day beach as a holiday — we remember our war dead . our war dead must be remember , and do so matter to I . their strength and sacrifice pave the way for the freedom we enjoy today . that be why this anniversary matter . it be not just a historical milestone , but a powerful reminder of the value that we must continue to uphold : courage , unity , resilience and an unshakeable belief in the importance of peace . it be fantastic that Mid Sussex be once again come together to commemorate VE day in the same spirit show all those year ago : from a reflective service at the Burgess Hill war memorial to community street party and parade . with the lighting of beacon in Victoria Park in Haywards Heath and St John ' s Park in Burgess Hill , this anniversary will be mark with pride , with dignity and , I know , with heart . VE Day be not just about look back ; it be about remind ourselves of what be fight for — freedom , democracy and peace — and about recognise how vital it be that we protect those value today . sadly , we live in a world that still face conflict and uncertainty . there be dark , divisive force that seek to disrupt peace , incite hatred and push to the side the lesson that be learn 80 year ago . so on this 80th anniversary , let we remember , let we honour and , above all , let we ensure that the legacy of those who give everything live on — not just in our word but in our action . I be privileged to speak in this debate today after so many powerful speech from colleague across the House . I be also glad to have the chance to draw particular attention to the people of Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy , and the special role that my constituent and their forefather play in secure victory for the ally . the Fife and Forfar Yeomanry be present at many of the second world war ' s most crucial turning point , from the Dunkirk evacuation in 1940 to the Normandy landing in 1944 and the crossing of the Rhine in March 1945 . hundred of young man lose their life , and we will remember they . I draw attention to the enormous contribution that woman make to the war effort . have enter the workforce en masse in Kirkcaldy ' s world - famous linoleum industry during the first world war , the contribution to the second world war effort by Kirkcaldy ' s woman be invaluable . woman work at Nairn ' s manufacture fuel tank for Halifax bomber , and their big contribution be to anti - gas fabric for cape and gas mask . such quantity could only be produce in Kirkcaldy , and that be a decisive factor in the allied victory , as the Nazis could not manufacture gas - proof textile in sufficient quantity and so never use gas in air raid for fear of retaliation . one of the most iconic symbol of Britain ' s war effort — and , indeed , its lack of use — be therefore testament to the hard graft of Fifers , particularly our wartime woman . add to their contribution be the thousand of Poles in the 1st Independent Parachute Brigade , station at Auchtertool in my constituency , who help to fortify Scotland ' s east coast and set up anti - tank barrier and pillbox from Burntisland all the way up to Montrose , accompany the fortification on the island of Inchcolm in the Forth . the regiment later go into battle in Operation Market Garden in the Netherlands in 1944 . General Sikorski , the leader of the Polish Government in exile , have a house in Auchtertool as well , and I find a quote from Winston Churchill as he update this very House on the death of General Sikorski in July 1943 : " until the moment of his death he live in the conviction that all else must be subordinate to the need of the common struggle and in the faith that a well Europe will arise " . — [ Official Report , 6 July 1943 ; Vol . 390 , c . 1947 . ] many Poles make their home in my constituency after world war two and they be an important part of our community today . the memory of those who fight in both world war and all other , and in particular of those who do not make it home , be keep alive by the fantastic work of the Kirkcaldy Legion . its work alongside the Kirkcaldy United Services Institute and the Hill of Beath Ex - servicemans Club in my constituency support veteran in our area . I be also glad of the work that our Labour Government be put in to support our veteran and their family . I commemorate the contribution of my granny , Isa McCue , who serve in a munition factory , and my grandad , Sam Ward , who serve in the RAF during world war two . civilian before the war , like so many , they step up to secure our freedom . in the face of the challenge in our own day and age , in this debate and on the 80th anniversary of VE Day on Thursday , we commemorate real people who work , who serve and who give their life for freedom and prosperity in the face of immense challenge . they be , after all , the reason we be here today . what an excellent speech to have the privilege of follow . it be always so impressive when people do their duty right up to the very end , and so I ask the House to salute the passing of Normandy veteran Cecil Newton , who as recently as last year come back to Lepe beach in New Forest East and read out the name of more than a hundred of his comrade in the Royal Dragoon Guards who be kill in the D - day landing and beyond . he be one of 6 , 000 troop who land on Gold beach , have depart from Lepe beach . he be in an amphibious Sherman tank that make it to shore — not all of they do — and he survive be wound in combat too , pass at the great age of 101 . we have hear from many speaker about the connection between their constituency and the military history of the second world war . that be a theme on which I expatiate back in May 1997 in my very first speech in this House . I will repeat just one reference from that oration , about when I discover a small plot of RAF grave in Fawley churchyard in my constituency . I could not help but be move by the inscription on the headstone of a young airman , John Burrow , whose parent have write the follow : " into the mosaic of victory we lie this priceless piece — our son " . I think that that be such a wonderful thing to do in the depth of their loss : to say , nevertheless , that this be what we be do for the victory of our country over Nazi Germany . I salute they and their memory too . how do one do justice to the second world war in a few minute ? I will pick out one key factor without which everything else would have be different : the existence of the english channel . there can be no doubt that if we have be contiguous with the continent of Europe , we would have suffer the same fate as all our ally there . there be no way in which we could have resist be overrun . when we think about how difficult it be to reinvade and retake the continent for democracy in 1944 , even with Britain as the launch area for that invasion , we realise how virtually impossible it would have be without the United Kingdom remain outside nazi german control . we can also look at the area cover by a simple listing of the campaign star that be award : the Atlantic Star , the Africa Star , the Italy Star , the Burma Star , the Pacific Star , the France and Germany Star and , much belatedly , the Arctic Star for the brave man of the merchant navy and the Royal Navy , who risk everything to get supply to Russia . let we not forget one last thing . when the war end , the country for which we go to war , Poland , remain under occupation by the Soviet Union , and it take another 44 year of determined deterrence , couple with the nuclear balance of terror , to ensure the eventual emergence of democracy in that country too . it be a pleasure to be call to speak in this debate to honour the sacrifice our community make during the second world war , and to celebrate the victory of democracy over tyranny . I begin the week of VE day by pay my respect at Hawkinge cemetery in my constituency . there be 96 british military personnel bury there , mostly airman who make the ultimate sacrifice during world war two . those airman would have fly from RAF Hawkinge , part of which be now the site of the Battle of Britain Museum in Kent , house the world ' s large collection of battle of Britain memorabilia . I urge all member of this House to visit it if they get the chance . RAF Hawkinge be the near Royal Air Force station to enemy - occupy France . the near Luftwaffe fighter in Calais be just six minute ' fly time away . as a result , the air force base and the village in the surround area become a regular target for Luftwaffe bomb . with the area around Dover and Folkestone also be subject to long - range cross - channel shell from german artillery battery station along the french coast , it be little wonder that the area soon become know as " hellfire corner " . after the battle of Britain , RAF Hawkinge continue to play a vital role throughout the war , with british , Commonwealth and other allied pilot fly bomber escort , reconnaissance and intruder mission from there . indeed , Hawkinge play a pivotal part as a frontline fighter station in 1944 against Hitler ' s v1 fly bomb . Operation Diver be the code name give to the RAF strategy to intercept and destroy v1 fly bomb before they reach London . RAF Hawkinge ' s location and its proximity to Nazi - occupy France mean it be use as a forward base for fighter aircraft to save countless life by intercept the fly bomb before they reach the capital . despite the variety of plane that fly from RAF Hawkinge during the war year , it be the Spitfire that have a particularly close connection with the aerodrome . turn to another part of my constituency , Ashford railway work be a prime target for german bomber during the war . around 4 , 000 air raid alert be sound , and bomb fall regularly in the area around the railway work . although there be many fatality as a result of these bombing raid , the most devastating take place on 24 March 1943 . on this day , an air raid that last around three minute result in the death of 52 civilian and one RAF pilot on the ground . a further 78 people be seriously injure . although the railway work be the main target , the surround area be also badly hit . during the raid a bomb fall on Beaver Road primary school . thankfully , the siren sound in time and the child manage to get into the playground shelter . as a parent , I dread to imagine the panic and fear this bomb cause . it be little wonder , therefore , that long before the all - clear sound , parent rush to the school to find out what have happen to their child . when they get there , they find that , thankfully , they be unharmed . the headteacher , Miss Adams , receive an award for her action on that day , which ultimately save the life of the child . I be pleased to have have the opportunity to speak in this debate to recognise the sacrifice make throughout Ashford , Hawkinge and the village , and to honour the legacy of all those who live during world war two . we should recognise that it be our duty today to continue to uphold the value they sacrifice so much for . eighty - five year ago , we see the force of fascism rise up to threaten democracy and freedom in Europe — force of darkness that would seek to control , oppress , subjugate and exploit the people of these island if they prevail . but they do not prevail . we owe our current reality to the bravery and heroism of those who give their life in order that we may maintain the way in which we continue to live our life . in Scotland , generation be lose and village and town be hollow out of their breeding - age man who be barely man at all , often in their productive prime , who be send to die in a foreign , distant place among the deafening and unrelenting roar of mechanised warfare , see their friend and neighbour die and draw their own last breath desperate for a kind word , a mother ' s soothe touch or an absent reassurance before a short life slam shut . it be a far cry from the cheerful " boy ' s own " adventure " we ' ll be home soon . " nobody get home soon . many do not return at all , and many of those who do would never be the same again , because that be how it be with war in the past . there be a legitimate desire to lock it away in a box , out of sight , which be nice if they could manage it , but many could not . many family see the slow heartbreak of husband who be irreparably damage — either physically or psychologically — and the distant , silent father who return , never quite able to access the man they be before the war . total war have a long tail , and it be still visible on these island 80 year later in society and the economy . indeed , the war debt to the United States be fully repay only in 2006 . if the war store have not be evacuate from Coventry to the Perthshire hill between Almondbank and Methven , I would not have get a job there in 1989 , and I can guarantee that if I have not work for the Ministry of Defence , I would not be stand here today . Scotland stand tall in those dark of time militarily , economically , industrially and culturally , just like our neighbour in England , Wales and Northern Ireland and in Norway , Denmark and the low country . Scotland ' s shipbuilding , coalmine , locomotive manufacturing , agricultural output and production of steel be all pivotal to the war effort . while young man fight , an army of old man and woman toil in the factory and the field , equip those at home and those in peril defend their homeland . Scotland ' s industry and geography make it a target for the Luftwaffe . the first aerial combat above the United Kingdom in the second world war happen in the Firth of Forth , where the Luftwaffe target Royal Navy ship anchor off Rosyth . while London ' s horrendous blitz rage on for eight long month , towards the end of that period the Clydebank blitz last just two night , but on those two night in March 1941 , the Luftwaffe kill 1 , 200 civilian , injure a further 1 , 000 civilian and destroy 8 , 500 home in that town . eighty - five year ago in Europe , we see the force of fascism rise up to threaten our freedom . then the superior force of freedom and liberty rise higher still to crush fascism down where it belong . eighty year after the end of that war , autocracy be still alive and well in our world today . to honour those who pay for our freedom with their own life , we must remain forever alert to the fragility of our freedom . we owe they all so much , and the absolute least that we can do to acknowledge their selfless sacrifice be to never , ever forget that liberty and vigilance go hand in hand . this week I be privileged to be attend event across the constituency to commemorate the 80th anniversary of VE day and the sacrifice of those who fight in the second world war , include veteran such as David Edwards and Tom Griffiths , who have a school name after they in Mondrainville in France , have help to liberate the village . in Monmouthshire , we will also be reflect on the 110th anniversary of the second battle of Ypres , when the 3rd Battalion the Monmouthshire Regiment suffer almost 700 casualty . monmouthshire veteran and the Abergavenny Royal British Legion will unveil a new commemorative bench to mark both that event and VE Day on Thursday . while we take time to remember those who have serve in decade go by , it be also extremely important to remember those who have commit to serve now and recently in our armed force , and give recognition to their contribution to our national security and peace . monmouthshire boast a fantastic armed force community because of its strong sense of camaraderie and support . we have a vibrant Royal british Legion presence in Abergavenny , Caldicot , Chepstow , Monmouth and Usk , as well as cadet group across the county . there be so many people I could name who be involve in that work , but I pay tribute in particular to Peter Farthing , who be recognise this year for his outstanding contribution to the Abergavenny Royal British Legion . he work tirelessly for veteran across Monmouthshire from remembrance service to fundraising and welfare support . I be so glad and thankful that this Government be commit to strengthen support for our veteran and armed force community . veteran today can face serious challenge and they deserve the great level of respect for their service and the many sacrifice they have make in its course , and that extend to the family who support they . I be proud that this Government will put the armed force covenant fully into law to strengthen support for serve personnel and veteran , and to ensure that everyone who have serve or continue to serve and their family be treat with fairness and respect . in attend commemoration event this week , all of we across the House will remember and recognise the bravery of those who fight in the second world war — both those who see VE Day and those who tragically do not . we must also remember those who have serve each day since then from 1945 right up to the present day . we owe a huge debt of gratitude to all those who have serve and who continue to serve our great country and who allow we to live in peace . I look forward to mark VE day on Thursday in the Royal Burgh of Sanquhar , which be part of Upper Nithsdale ' s proud military heritage , at the beacon to be light at Hass hill in Lockerbie , and at a parade in Dumfries on Saturday . what Ministers and yourself , Madam Deputy Speaker , might not know be that the end of the war in Europe be first announce in Dumfries , because the Provost Fyfe jump the gun and announce it at 12 pm . local newspaper report be clear that by the time Churchill make the official announcement at 3 pm — despite the pour rain — the party be well under way in Dumfries . I want to reference two individual who be strongly related to the war but at different end of the spectrum . the first be Air Chief Marshal Lord Hugh Dowding , who be bear in Moffat . Lord Dowding be the man who mastermind the battle of Britain , and it be generally accept that he play a crucial role in ensure that Hitler ' s Operation Sea Lion — the proposal to invade this island — do not succeed . he be a tactical genius who know how to manage the RAF resource and ensure there be detailed preparation for the air defence . the other person be David Shankland MBE . he be a great character in my local community when I be grow up . davie , like a lot of people , be involve in an incident that be not an attack by the enemy but a ship carry munition that blow up in Bombay harbour . that ship — the SS Fort Stikine — blow up and take down the ship that Davie be on , El Hind , as well . about 1 , 300 people perish in that incident , and Davie be one of only six people on his vessel to survive . he take that as a message that he need to dedicate the rest of his life to public service , and that be what he do . when he be demob , he become a nurse . he be the first male state - register nurse in the south of Scotland , and he go on to be a distinguished nurse tutor . that be the sort of impact the war have : people go through it and make it a positive experience . I also want to mention my mother Dorah . she be 13 when the war begin , but as soon as she be 18 in 1944 , she volunteer and become an Army cook , go from rural south Scotland to Norfolk . her abide memory of the war be d - day . have cook the night before for a full and overflowing canteen , she say she go in the next morning and there be only four old man to serve . my aunt , who remain in the south of Scotland , have to work on the farm . she be 19 and work throughout the war as a farm labourer because , as other have reference , there just be not man to do that . we pay tribute to those people , even if they do not have a formal role . the final point , which I be pleased that a number of member have raise , be VJ Day . the King ' s Own Scottish Borderers from the south of Scotland be heavily involve in the eastern campaign . People never really feel that they get the acknowledgment they deserve , because they feel that the war have end and yet it have not . rise — order . we still have a number of member try to get in , so we will set the speak limit at three minute . VE Day , especially this year , offer we a chance to reflect with gratitude on the sacrifice make by those in the armed force and those on the home front to defend our way of life and freedom from tyranny . a few week ago , I have the pleasure of visit Thurrock museum ' s exhibition mark the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe , and it take its jumping - off point from a picture take at the time of a VE Day celebration in Grays . visitor be invite to look at the joy on people ' s face and the celebration — child dance spontaneously , bunt up in the street , cake be serve — but also to reflect on what be go on behind the picture : the fact that people in those photo would be await the return of love one for some month and may be wait for love one who be never to return . also , visitor be encourage to reflect on the extraordinary sacrifice of those on the home front and the change it make to their way of life . I take a moment to pause on some of the lyric sing by Vera Lynn . we often think of they as upbeat , patriotic and bring we all together , but look behind the word of " there ' ll be bluebird over the white cliff of dover " she speak about a return to normality . when she sing , " and Jimmy will go to sleep in his own little room again " we can only think what that mean every evening when those siren go off for parent to take their child down to an air raid shelter , wonder if they would ever emerge and what they would be emerge to . while it be a moment for celebration , it be also a moment perhaps to reflect on the great loss and sacrifice that people make . at the exhibition , there be a set - up make to look like a VE Day celebration , and they have photo of those who might have be round the table . we be allow to explore the story of 10 extraordinary thurrock resident and the life they lead during the war . I would like to highlight two that stand out to I : Charles Corder from South Stifford , a RAF navigator who be award the medal for conspicuous gallantry ; and Vera Robertson , a civilian from Little Thurrock who assist the norwegian resistance by shelter they at her flat in Norway . the war definitely change the course of people ' s life , and it also bring about social change . I would like to touch briefly on the fact that VE Day mark the return of over 300 , 000 disabled serviceman and woman — something that lead to the first ever piece of legislation consider the need of disabled people . the war do act as a catalyst to change and learn . in that spirit , I hope that by commemorate the anniversary this year — one of our very last chance to join with those who serve — we take a moment to learn lesson and the value of hope and freedom over evil and tyranny ; to pledge to honour the value that those great servicemen and woman fight to protect ; to learn from the bravery , courage , compassion and sacrifice of those on the home front to face down hatred and division in our society ; to support those in need ; and to champion the value that bring we together as a nation . like many of my generation , I have a grandfather who serve in the second world war . though I be never old enough to ask he about it before he pass away , I be always very proud to have a relative who have take part . I be proud that he have serve in the Desert Rats during the north african campaign , and I be honour to follow in his footstep when I serve in the 7th Armoured Brigade , the Desert Rats , during operation in Iraq 65 year later . the second world war leave an indelible mark on our nation . its impact ripple throughout so much of our culture , heritage and identity . I be certain that it have a huge influence on my interest in the military , which lead to my own desire to serve . my former regiment , the Duke of Wellington ' s , see action in France , Tunisia , Italy , India and Burma , and battle honour at Anzio in the italian campaign and at Sittang bridge in Burma , operate as chindit behind japanese line at Imphal and Kohima . these campaign play a crucial role in secure victory over Nazi Germany and imperial Japan . my Huntingdon constituency play a key role throughout the war . RAF Molesworth open in 1941 , with the royal australian air force ' s 460 Squadron operate Wellington bomber . after 460 depart , the United States army air force soon arrive and be most closely link with the 303rd Bomb Group , popularly know as " Hell ' s Angels " , arrive with B - 17s in September 1942 . it launch the first US army air force bombing raid over Nazi - occupy Europe later that year . the US air force remain at RAF Molesworth to this day and be still embed in the local community across Huntingdon . RAF Wyton be also a key player as the home of the Pathfinder Force from 1942 . the Pathfinder Force be an elite unit , task with lead RAF Bomber Command ' s night - time raid deep into the sky over Germany and locate the target at a time when night - time bombing be suffer from poor result , with target be miss . that role be not without risk . from 1942 to 1945 , the Pathfinder Force fly a total of 50 , 490 sortie against some 3 , 440 target , and at least 3 , 727 member be kill on operation . the activity at RAF Molesworth and RAF Wyton be a significant reminder of the vital role the RAF play but also of the sacrifice and work of our ally and US personnel throughout the war . to conclude , I pay tribute to all those who do so much so that we can live freely . they be normal people ask to do thing that nobody should have to — make incredible sacrifice , endure terrible suffering and experience tragic loss . the second world war be a defining moment in our nation ' s history , more so than any event in live memory . as those who experience it pass and the first - hand memory be lose , it be easy to forget what be do by so many , but we must never forget , and we will remember they . on VE Day , Captain Harry Richardson of the RAF , from Ochiltree in Ayrshire , be half a world away . VE Day do not mean the end of all conflict . the war with Japan continue , and despite extensive service in Europe , Captain Richardson be still on active duty in India as a bomber pilot . while the country celebrate , Captain Richardson and many other fight on to keep the peace . he fly 62 bombing mission over Germany , Europe , Burma and Malaysia until 1947 , when Japan surrender . leave the RAF as a flight lieutenant , he earn the Distinguished Flying Cross , the war Star , the Air Crew Europe medal , the Burma Star and the Defence medal . this year , Captain Richardson celebrate his 107th birthday and will travel to London for the VE Day commemoration . not all veteran reach 107 , so it be also important to pay tribute to those who have fall . this week I will visit " Untold Stories " , an exhibition at Girvan library , where Richard and Loran Conaghan of the Girvan and District Great War Project present local story from the war , aim to inspire our young generation . one story be of Corporal Norman Nicholson Campbell . he join the Pioneer Corps , leave behind his wife Mary and four - year - old son Malcolm . in Dunkirk , 1940 , Norman be take as a prisoner of war to Stalag VIIIB in Lamsdorf , Poland . by August 1940 , his wife have pass away from cancer , and eight month later , his son die . Corporal Campbell die of a cardiac arrest in 1943 , two year before VE Day , and be lay to rest in Krakow in 1948 . this story be a stark reminder of the sacrifice make by so many and their loved one during the war . as we celebrate VE Day 80 year on , it be right to remember everyone who make that possible . we thank they . eighty year ago , when the gun fall silent , the long and bitter war against tyranny in Europe be over . Britain ' s peace be mark by not only celebration , but gratitude and reflection on all that have be sacrifice to make it possible . that peace have be fully and faithfully earn across my constituency , with courage , with resolve and at great cost . from every corner of the constituency , man and woman step forward to serve , in the air , at sea , on the frontline and at home . their name be etch into memorial across our community to remind we of not only who they be , but what they give . Brecknockshire , with its long - stand military tradition , stand as a proud centre of that service , but the uniform be wear across the constituency , in the hill of Radnorshire , in the valley of Cwm Tawe and beyond . among they be those who serve with distinction in local regiment such as the South Wales Borderers and the Welch Regiment , both of which see action across Europe , north Africa and the far east . the Royal Navy also bear our town ' s name with pride . HMS Brecon , a Hunt - class destroyer , serve with honour in the Atlantic and the Mediterranean , carry the name of Brecon wherever she sail . other serve in different way but with equal resolve . in the Swansea valley , local man be conscript as Bevin boy , send into the deep and dangerous seam of the south Wales coalfield to mine the coal that power our fleet and fuel the wartime economy . their work be exhausting and often overlook , but vital to victory . many of they be not release until 1948 . in the field of my constituency , the rhythm of farming do not cease . amid rationing and relentless shortage , Welsh agricultural worker , and the Land Girls who stand beside they , keep the nation feed . across the constituency , woman take on vital responsibility in munition factory , hospital , civil defence , and at the heart of their community . their contribution be last . it shape the peace that follow , and the freedom we live by today . I be proud to attend the commemoration last Saturday in Ystradgynlais , organise by Jade and the Swansea Valley armed force club , where that contribution be honour . let our remembrance be a promise : to live up to their example , to work together for the public good , and never to forget what be give in the hope of a fairer future . finally , I wish to pay tribute to RAF war veteran John Gwynne , who be a worthy guest of honour at recent VE Day celebration in Talgarth , age 104 . before reflect on the anniversary itself , I wish to pay tribute to the Royal British Legion and its volunteer . I have a dickie bow that the Bollington branch of the legion , one of the old in the country , have kindly give I , and I will be wear it with pride on Thursday , along with other RBL volunteer across the wide Cheshire area , and indeed the country . we owe they a debt of gratitude for their dedication , which be a live legacy of service . during the war , community across Macclesfield answer the call to duty . mill and factory pivot to produce essential war materiel , from uniform to parachute and engine component , help to sustain our armed force . thousand of the iconic Lancaster bomber be assemble at Woodford aerodrome , and on the frontline , the Cheshire regiment serve with distinction from the desert of north Africa to the bloody hill of Italy and the beach of Normandy . cheshire soldier be at the heart of the fight to liberate Europe , and their bravery and sacrifice be part of the great national effort that we be talk about today . in the air , RAF pilot from Macclesfield also do their bit . Eric Bann be a member of the Macclesfield aeronautical society , join the RAF at the outbreak of the war . he go on to fly 60 mission . he be in the thick of the action from the outset . he be shoot down in the channel in July 1940 , yet he still manage to get back to the air , down a Messerschmitt and a Heinkel in the following week . on 28 September his Hurricane be attack while patrol over the Isle of Wight . witness see his plane ablaze before he bail out . tragically , his parachute fail to open . his death be front - page news in the Macclesfield Courier , which praise he as " a glorious example of courage , gameness and determination . " even with victory , the cost be staggering : 400 , 000 life lose , city bomb , home destroy . economically , the war leave our country exhausted , and psychologically , as member have point out , the trauma run deep for those who fight , those who wait , and those who mourn . as we meet here today , war once again stride across our continent , with the invasion of Ukraine by Russia bring back scene that we hope never to see — city in ruin , civilian target , million displace . it be a bitter reminder that peace can not be take for grant , that the value we fight for be still under threat , and that tyranny unchecked only grow bold . VE Day be not just a day of remembrance ; it be a call for resolve , and a reminder that we in Macclesfield , and across the United Kingdom , choose peace , but that we must be ready to defend it . I will end with some of my favourite word from the man who lead we through that conflict : " in all our long history we have never see a great day than this . everyone , man or woman , have do their good . " it be a pleasure to take part in today ' s important debate . the end of the second world war in Europe be a defining moment in the history of Wales and Ynys M ô n . it bring an end to six year of conflict during which an estimate 300 , 000 welshman serve in the military , with 15 , 000 kill . Ynys M ô n may have be many mile from the frontline of the blitz in south - east England , but it be still target by bomb raid , include at the strategic port of Holyhead . the island play a vital part in the war effort . RAF fighter crew fly sortie from the island basis of Mona and Valley against Germany , while an airfield at Bodorgan be use as a storage space . those airfield be responsible for training and host thousand of servicepeople , with 1 , 378 man of the RAF and 408 officer and woman of the WAAF base on RAF Mona by the end of the war . the legacy of the war can still be feel today . Valley remain a centre of military and civil aviation , with Mona now use as a relief landing ground . Valley be a source of highly skilled job and education for local people , with a partnership between Gr ŵ p Llandrillo Menai and Babcock deliver apprenticeship to local young people , include aerospace engineering maintenance . the impact be feel on the home front too . the island host evacuee child from Liverpool and Manchester , help to keep they safe during the air attack by Germany . there be also more than 40 , 000 welsh people who could not speak English , especially in the western part of Wales , such as Ynys M ô n . to address that , the BBC broadcast news of the war for around 20 minute of every day in Welsh ; such programming pave the way for S4C decade later . rationing still impact the everyday life of the people of Ynys M ô n for many year after the war end . those who sacrifice so much both on the home front and in the field of conflict do so in the name of peace and order . the rule - base international order that emerge from the war be now under increase strain . as we see a rise in the far right across the globe and leader who disregard human right and international law , we must be bold in confront they . we have an obligation to honour the sacrifice of the generation before we by uphold the legacy that they leave we . I thank the organiser of the service that I will be attend on Mynydd Parys on VE Day to commemorate the contribution that Wales and Ynys M ô n make in the war and in bring about a more peaceful world . I close my contribution by reaffirm that message and note how important it be that we honour those who fight and sacrifice so much for our freedom . it be a privilege to speak in this debate to commemorate the 80th anniversary of VE Day . I be proud to serve as the Member of Parliament for Bexleyheath and Crayford and to represent a constituency that be home to around 2 , 000 veteran . my constituency be in proximity to the Royal Arsenal in Woolwich , in the south - east corner of London . back in the day , the Royal Arsenal be home to one of the big munition factory in the UK , with 32 , 000 employee produce gun , shell , cartridge case and bomb , so my constituency become a prime target for Nazi bombing . while many of its resident be fight overseas , my constituency be really play its part to support the war effort . Crayford be home to the Vickers factory , which again produce machine gun , anti - aircraft predictor , naval gun - lay equipment , fuse and casing for Barnes Wallis ' s bounce bomb . the Slade Green heavy anti - aircraft battery be build in the late 1930 and be the most easterly anti - aircraft site build inside the London inner artillery zone . today , the gun emplacement , fire command post , pillbox and air raid shelter be still stand . after a successful local campaign in 2010 , the site be now grade II list . there be a number of war memorial across the constituency , include the garden of remembrance in Oaklands Road , Bexleyheath ; St Augustine ' s church in Slade Green ; St Paul ' s church in Northumberland Heath ; and the Crayford war memorial garden . a window in St Paulinus church , Crayford , commemorate three member of the woman ' s voluntary service who die in a v1 explosion in July 1944 . in total , 66 people be kill and 184 property be destroy , with 7 , 000 property be damage in the area around Crayford High Street . hundred more property be destroy across the constituency as a result of Nazi bombing . I pay tribute to the East Wickham & Welling War Memorial Trust for the work it do to commemorate the war effort and the brave soldier from Bexleyheath and Crayford who serve in the second world war . its area of benefit cover part of my constituency and the constituency of the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) . it have carry out extensive work to ensure that a memorial be in place for local people who give their life , and it hold an incredibly move service every November to remember they . I also mention the hard work and dedication of the two Royal British Legion branch in my constituency — the Bexleyheath and well branch and the Crayford branch — and thank they for all the work that they do to recognise the important contribution to the war effort . I look forward to join they in attend a number of event in my constituency on Thursday to commemorate VE Day and to be able to pay my respect to those who make the ultimate sacrifice for we . it be an honour to speak in this debate commemorate VE Day , which be of great significance to many in my constituency , where a significant proportion of the population be veteran or from military family . the Royal British Legion have encourage we to ensure that the story of veteran be at the centre of our commemoration event this week , so I would like to share the story of my grandfather , James Paterson , who be a navigator on a Stirling bomber . on 16 August 1943 , his plane be shoot down in south - east France . only two of the crew of seven survive — my grandfather be one of they . he be rescue by the Resistance in the area of Amb é rieu and be save by three family , who hide he at great personal risk — in the town , and in the forest and the hill nearby . eventually , four month later , he be smuggle out , over the Pyrenees , to safety . without the bravery of those family , my mother would never have be bear and I would not be here today . I pay a special tribute to Marius and Jeanne Lapierre , who hide my grandfather in their bakery . in 2014 , my father ' s research reconnecte my family with the Lapierres and we have since remain in contact . last year , I be honour to visit Monique Lapierre — one of the daughter of the family , after whom my aunt be name — who have since sadly die . as we remember this week the bravery of all those , like my grandfather , who fight in the armed force for freedom in Europe , let we also remember the bravery — often unsung — of those , like the Lapierres , who fight and resist in so many different way at great personal risk to themselves and their child , to save the life of stranger . let we all hope that we would do the same . as we challenge the force of the far right , and as we recognise and remember the resistance 80 year ago of those who make the ultimate sacrifice to defend Europe against Nazism , let the memory of all those who show such bravery never be forget . I be grateful for the opportunity to participate in such a significant debate as we celebrate the 80th anniversary of the ally victory in Europe and the victory over Japan . today , we honour all the man and woman who give we the freedom we enjoy today , and who fight against fascism for our freedom , dignity and liberation . nearly a third of those man and woman come from the indian subcontinent : 2 . 5 million Hindus , Muslims and Sikhs — the large volunteer army ever see in history . one of those man be my grandfather , Nand Singh , who serve in what be know as Malaya . before he , my great - grandfather fight in Europe during the first world war . grow up , my parent recount story about the sacrifice that my forebear make during both world war , but I do not see those contribution recognise elsewhere — not in the history textbook at school , the documentary on tv or the film on the big screen . although they have be mention today , some 2 . 5 million man be simply airbrush out of history . despite a valiant effort to expose that history , it remain all too easy to surrender to the fear and to forget our historic unity , especially during flashpoint of racial or religious division . this ve day , we must remain firm in our pursuit for the truth of our past : the forget story of how Christians , Hindus , Jews , Muslims and Sikhs rally together to achieve a common goal . through pay tribute to those story of unity , we can fight the lie that tell we our perceive difference define and divide we . the second world war be bloody , brutal and barbaric , but within that violent context , there be glimmer of hope : story of hope and unity , of togetherness instead of division , and of respect for our ritual over denigration of they ; story to drown out the nasty , noisy narrative that we see online and on our street , which pit one religion against another , judge we by our skin , and dictate the respect we deserve base on religious identity ; and story to remind we that despite modern - day racial tension , flash of sectarian violence and religious hostility , we can work together , we can stand united and we do have a share history . I pay tribute to those brave man and woman whose resilience and fortitude build this country , and whose shoulder we stand on as we enjoy the freedom we enjoy today . victory in Europe Day be a time not only to celebrate , but to reflect and remember . I be privileged to represent a community that do all three . recently , I meet two veteran of the war , both 100 year young . it be an honour to spend time with they , listen to their story . in April 1945 , Mr Philip Jackson from Keighley drive one of the first wagon into Bergen - Belsen concentration camp , notorious as the location of the death of Anne Frank , her family and over 70 , 000 inmate in the cruell and most unspeakable of condition . the work of Mr Jackson and his unit not only begin the process of recuperation for the survivor , but provide we with a record of that terrible place for the world to see . I also meet Pam Rae from Ilkley . Mrs Rae be a Women ' s Royal Naval Service radar mechanic , instal cutting - edge radar set in ship on the Clyde , include HMS Vanguard . in fact , Mrs Rae take part in the original VE Day celebration and the parade in Glasgow 80 year ago . group work to preserve the memory of that great generation and educate the young be strong in Keighley and Ilkley . our cadet force be a constant presence , fly the flag for our modern armed force , and an organisation call the Men of Worth Project have meticulously research the life , story and legacy of hundred of man and woman of the first and second world war from Keighley and Ilkley . I thank Andy Wade and his team for their incredible work . our very own Home Guard unit , WR28 , be still go strong . when I visit that unit recently , I be thoroughly impress by the tradition that it be still keep alive . of course , even once the fighting be over , our armed force continue to remember those who fight . that memory be also preserve by our fantastic armed force and veteran breakfast club , which help bring a vital social network to veteran and servicemen across the Ilkley area . Mark Sugrue and the team recently hold a sleep - out to raise money for and awareness of veteran in crisis . across the whole of the Keighley and Ilkley constituency , we be incredibly proud of our veteran . to conclude , I wish to make reference to those soldier for whom victory in Europe 80 year ago be not the end . victory over Japan would take another three gruelling month , and right up until the atomic bomb be drop , it be widely fear that a full invasion of Japan be inevitable . I thank those soldier for their service , their dedication and their commitment to our nation . I wish all member of this House and my constituent a very happy VE day , and look forward to celebrate with they on VJ Day in August . every anniversary commemorate the ally ' victory on VE Day and VJ Day be a significant one . the triumph of liberal democracy over authoritarianism , nationalism and fascism be a lesson from history that we must never forget , and a sacrifice make by so many courageous man and woman that must always be remember . this year be even more significant , as we mark 80 year since the end of world war two . but for the grace of God , this could therefore be the last significant anniversary that we share with survive veteran of the great generation — hero one and all . I extend my most profound gratitude to those hero in Newcastle - under - Lyme , across our United Kingdom and in all part of the then empire , now the Commonwealth of Nations . they fight so that we could have the privilege of live in the world we live in today , one in which we enjoy freedom and security , democracy and decency , and respect and understanding . our world will be a dark place when we lose the last of the great generation . yesterday , back home in our ancient and loyal borough of Newcastle - under - Lyme , I have the great privilege of attend a VE Day party in the Westlands . it be a celebration to rival those hold on VE Day itself , full of family — some of which have three generation present — with much merriment , real gratitude , genuine loyalty , obvious patriotism and serious pride . my thank go to Kay , Yvonne , Suzanna , Dianne and Sarah for their organisational prowess and for bring so many member of the community together . I would also like to play my small part in pay tribute to and remember those who we lose during the war and those who have pass since . Fred Kite be a world war two veteran bear in Newcastle - under - Lyme and who fight in north Africa , Normandy and Greece . he be the only second world war british soldier to receive the Military Medal three time . his third be award for the " great personal courage and his example of remain in action against odd that be much against he " . that be a lesson for we all . I would also like to remember two Staffordshire - bear spitfire pilot ; they be both bear in my constituency and fly as part of the Photo Reconnaissance Unit . there be countless story from not just the United Kingdom , but the Commonwealth and the wide world — story of normal people do extraordinary thing , all in the name of freedom . the Brampton Museum in our town centre have an exhibition look at the contribution our community make to victory in Europe some 80 year ago , with some amazing story about some amazing people . the spirit of togetherness and solidarity from the war form the story that my grandparent share with I as a child , and they will live with I forever . my grandfather come to this country from Jamaica in 1941 to serve King and country on his british passport . many man like he come to roll up their sleeve and not just help defeat the Germans , but rebuild Britain too . how lucky be we that they do ? without the blood , sweat and tear of man and woman from across the Commonwealth fighting on the beach , in the air and on the mainland , we could not and would not have win the war . as we celebrate 80 year since the end of the most terrible global war in modern history — order . I call Monica Harding . on this 80th anniversary of VE Day , I pay tribute to those brave man and woman from Esher and Walton who play their part ; their name be etch on memorial throughout my constituency . all Saints church in Weston Green , Esher , have undertake the invaluable project of record the story of some of the fall on its memorial , include soldier who fall in Italy , north Africa and the far east , sailor lose in the Atlantic and the Mediterranean , and pilot lose over Norway and Egypt . we be privileged to have veteran who be still with we . my constituent Wilbur Holver celebrate his 100th birthday last month . bear in America , he serve as a marine engineer , clearing mine to assure the safe passage of ally ship outside Le Havre and Antwerp , which become essential entry point for allied supply . Wilbur tell I he celebrate VE Day in three country . first , in Holland , he celebrate with the british troop . he say it be " the big party I ' ve ever be in " . it be still go when he leave and return five day later — he say that the party last a month or more . he then return to France and partie some more , before end up in London on leave , where he find himself in front of Buckingham Palace , still party . he come to live in England , in Esher , and we be lucky to have he . our local area suffer during the blitz . it be once describe as doodlebug alley on account of the many german V - 1 pass overhead . in June 1944 , a V - 1 fall on Imber Court in Esher , the Met police training ground , kill 20 man of the Welsh Guards training battalion compete that day in their regimental sport competition . on the home front , Sir Bruce White , who live in Hersham , be instrumental in the design of the float Mulberry harbour , and the people of Walton play their part in unit such as the Walton Sparrows , which form a vital anti - aircraft battery . the Women ' s Land Army operate at Rivernook Farm in Walton and at Bell Farm , and the Navy , Army and Air Force Institutes move its headquarters to Claygate in my constituency . More than 150 local woman work there , provision million of man through the canteen and bar scatter across the globe ; NAAFI oversee 7 , 000 canteen , and its facility serve more than 3 . 5 million cup of tea every day . when the war finally end , Oatlands Park Hotel , which be still go , play host to the official celebration , with cabaret and hundred of guest . as we commemorate 80 year since victory in Europe , we owe a profound debt to those who make and make sacrifice — even final sacrifice — to bring about a well , gentle world . we must never lose sight of the profound blessing and fragility of peace and how hard it be win . last Friday , I visit Kilmarnock football club to witness the signing of the armed force covenant next to its award - win memorial garden . it be both a pleasure and an honour to see the club ' s continued commitment to our veteran , and its acknowledgement of those who lose their life in the service of our country . the timing be perfect , as in this most important of week we celebrate the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe — VE Day — and we remember those who make the ultimate sacrifice to defeat Hitler ' s Nazis . this be also one of our last opportunity to pay tribute to live second world war veteran who serve and sacrifice to defend our way of life . the scottish contribution to the event lead up to VE Day on 8 May 1945 be truly significant , encompass military service , industrial output and civilian support . Scotland , although small in size , play a disproportionately large role in Britain ' s war effort during world war two . the war generation be true hero , and the backbone on which this country be build . I want to tell the House more about the contribution that Kilmarnock football club make to the war effort . its ground , Rugby Park , be requisition by the Government on 4 June 1940 , and a few day later the troop march in and take over the ground to be use as an oil and fuel depot . in July that year , the club give an interest - free loan to the British Government of £ 1 , 000 for the war effort . it may not sound significant today , but let I put it into context : 80 year ago , it would have take an average worker five year to earn that amount . during my visit , it be wonderful to see the original documentation from the then Chancellor of the Exchequer , Sir Kingsley Wood , which remain a treasured piece of the club ' s history . at this time when every part of our nation unite — Scotland , England , Wales and Northern Ireland , pull together in a time of need — Kilmarnock football club be no exception , and make its own contribution . many player step up and do their duty , in the name of service to our nation . sadly , eight of they pay the ultimate price and never return home . I want to remember they , not only in this debate but always . may we never forget their sacrifice . when the war end the club reclaim its ground , and its generous loan be repay in full , albeit interest - free . after the event of wartime , and with the effort of italian and german prisoner of war , Rugby Park be rebuild , with football return in April 1945 . VE Day be as much a moment of pride and relief for Kilmarnock as for any part of the UK , mark the culmination of year of sacrifice and determination . the lesson of the second world war and the global security challenge we face today reinforce the need to face our adversary together , through the strength of our alliance such as NATO . learn the lesson of history be a meaningful way in which we can pay tribute and honour the sacrifice make by so many veteran who fight for our country in world war two and subsequently . one of the most moving account that I read this week be that of 101 - year - old Ruth Klauber , a jewish refugee and a mechanic on the Lancaster bomber . she speak not of celebration but of sacrifice . when ask for her opinion of yesterday ' s celebration , she say : " well , yes , we win the war . it ' s good to celebrate that we win the war and what that mean for democracy . but for I when I think of VE Day , I think of the pilot with whom I fall in love , the only man I ever love . and he fly many successful mission but his last be his last . he never come home . for I I think of the cost of war . War be not something you celebrate . it be something you remember . it be something that you look back on and reflect on how it be a failure of man . it be a failure to reach an outcome that didn ' t involve hundred of thousand of young man be kill . " she go on : " we must never stop always work to ensure we don ' t end up in a scenario again where more people be slaughter . and that mean you always have to stand up for democracy . " those word should weigh heavy on all our shoulder in this significant week . I also want to take the opportunity to commend the community across my constituency whose effort have be immense during this significant week . across our town , village and housing estate , the atmosphere be one of pride and remembrance . lamp post and wall be proudly decorate with our national flag and with banner and bunting — all of it part of a collective effort to both celebrate and commemorate the great ally victory . there be no great source of pride than see our community come together , not only to mark this historic triumph but to remember those who secure the civil and religious liberty that we enjoy today . I be free to hold and express my view because of the bravery , the willingness to serve , and the ultimate sacrifice make by those who stand against fascism , tyranny , genocide and racism , aggression and suppression . I note the exemplary effort of Upper Bann . Portadown be a key industrial centre and play a significant role through its engineering , textile and transport industry . Lurgan play a critical role . Brownlow House , a grand 19th - century building that I have speak of — I thank the Minister for her visit — be the headquarters for the US army , and General Eisenhower himself visit it . the D - day landing be plan from Brownlow House . Banbridge be not find want ; it be central to the agricultural supply chain when people participate in the dig for victory . young man from Banbridge serve with distinction in our armed force . that be only the tip of the iceberg as to how Northern Ireland contribute to the overall victory . Northern Ireland step up , and I want it clearly note in this House today how thankful we be for the united effort from every corner of our United Kingdom . the 80th anniversary of VE Day and VJ Day be a time for we to remember and honour those who fight to defend our freedom , our value and our people . it be also a time to recognise the contribution that veteran from across our country continue to make to their community . for many of our veteran , their service to this country and their commitment to fight for our value do not end when they leave the military . I will take this opportunity to tell the House about one such veteran from my community , Mike Lyons . I do not know Mike for very long , but one of the privilege that we have in this place be that we get to meet people who we instinctively know be the good of we , which be what Mike be . he serve in the military for seven year , and be a member of the Royal British Legion ' s New Addington branch for more than 30 year . for many year , Mike run the Final Roll Call campaign to ensure that world war one soldier who return from fighting , and who be institutionalise due to what we now know as post - traumatic stress disorder , be properly honour and give their rightful place in history . his campaign lead to 26 serviceman who be bury in unmarked grave , without a military burial , finally be give the dignified memorial they deserve . Mike want to ensure that their memory live on and , just before Christmas , ask I to light a candle for they in Parliament . our candle of remembrance in Parliament quickly turn into a full - on candle - lighting ceremony at the tomb of the Unknown Warrior in Westminster Abbey . at one point , someone question whether we need insurance for the bugler . sadly , Mike pass away before our ceremony could take place , but with the support of his family and friend , we hold our ceremony as plan . in March , it be a privilege to welcome Mike ' s family , his friend , his local councillor , community leader from the family centre and New Addington Pathfinders , member of the Royal British Legion , Army cadet , member of Croydon ' s veteran community , the Minister for Veterans and People , flagbearer and a bugler to Westminster Abbey for our candle ceremony . I hope that we do Mike proud . as we look ahead to the 80th anniversary of VE Day and VJ Day , we must commit ourselves to ensure that our armed force community be look after now and in the future , so I welcome the Government ' s announcement of a UK - wide support system for our veteran . in Croydon , we have launch the Croydon Cares for Veterans campaign to raise fund for SSAFA Croydon and the New Addington branch of the Royal British Legion . as it be for the second world war generation and for Mike , it be our action that demonstrate our commitment to the people who serve this country . it be our action that will protect our value , and it our action that will honour what our armed force community continue to fight for today . it be great that this House be commemorate the historic victory that mark the end of the war , which have take so much . at a time when we be often ask to apologise for so much , it be important to recognise the victory that we have in the name of democracy and freedom throughout the world . it be good to see the Minister in his place . member will be aware that I have a debate in this Chamber on the heroism of Newtownards man Blair Paddy Mayne , who richly deserve to be award a posthumous VC . I be amazed by the number of people who , until they watch the tv drama " sas : Rogue Heroes " , do not quite understand how integral Blair and , indeed , Northern Ireland soldier be to the war effort . it have to be remember that we have no conscription in Northern Ireland — we do not need it , because every single man who join up do so out of love for King , country and the principle of freedom . that be still the case today for serve armed force personnel from Northern Ireland , who proudly serve king and country and who give their all during the trouble . the debate on Blair Mayne highlight to I that as a youngster , I be teach about the essential contribution of Northern Ireland ' s man and woman to the UK ' s war effort to secure victory over the Nazis , and over Japan in Asia . my constituent in Strangford give their life , with war memorial in the Ards peninsula , Comber , Killyleagh and Ballynahinch . hundred of young man , and indeed some woman , give their all for King and country at that time . we need to remember that Northern Ireland contribute significantly to war production . Weaponry , munition , aircraft , tank , ship and small arm be all build in Northern Ireland . there be also opportunity for woman . for example , the Royal Ulster Constabulary require female police , although they be subject to a marriage bar . similarly , woman be employ in the auxiliary service for the armed force and as an additional agricultural labour force . in engineering , some 250 woman be employ , and by 1943 some 12 , 500 woman be employ in Northern Ireland . for these reason , those from both side of the community — roman Catholic and protestant ; nationalist and Unionist — will be celebrate with a full heart , with family story and memory hand down through the generation . I think some 44 , 000 serve in uniform , and 10 % of those do not come back . separately , 1 , 000 people lose their life in the Belfast blitz , which acknowledge the importance of the Northern Ireland war effort . some time ago , I attend a memorial service to the young RAF and Army man who be kill in the blitz in Newtownards . the role of Ireland Northern in the victory for the ally can not be overstate . as the MP for Strangford , I be proud not simply to lay a wreath in their memory each year , but to raise my hand in salute to the member of the armed force , the labourer and engineer , the woman who fill the gap and those who lose their life in the blitz . we salute they all again today , and honour their sacrifice . the good way we can honour they be to recreate that british spirit in our child and our grandchild , and remind they of the cost of all we hold so dear . we will remember they , and on 8 May we will celebrate they in community throughout this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . in York Outer , we will be celebrate VE Day and the peace we cherish today as a result of the tenacity of the wartime generation . may I take just a moment to set the scene of what VE Day be like in York ? after nearly six long year of war , the city burst into life with spontaneous celebration . for the first time since 1939 , York Minster be light up , with its great bell ring out across the city . there be even a recording on YouTube of the minster ' s bell from that day with a comment that the bellringer , like the rest of the nation , may have be a little out of practice . however , on VE Day they ring out with the sound of triumph and relief . it be truly a suburban tapestry of victory in York , with canadian service personnel see dance in Fulford and drive about York on their motorbike . bonfire be light across the city , include throughout the many community that make up my constituency . one particularly memorable bonfire be in Bishopthorpe , on the very site where the wonderful Bishopthorpe junior school now stand — a symbol , then and now , of hope for the next generation . I write to all the fantastic primary school in my constituency to task our talented pupil with draw a York street party celebrate VE Day , and one of those drawing be on its way to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the win school be Elvington Church of England primary school — it be just a stone ' s throw from RAF Elvington , where french pilot fly alongside british pilot for the last year of the war — and I will be write to the lucky pupil to congratulate they soon . York play a huge role in the second world war , and it continue to do so today . we be home to the Queen Elizabeth barrack at Strensall , to the HQ of the 2nd Medical Group and to many inspirational serve personnel and their family , who serve our country . I be truly privileged to have they in my constituency . we also have the Yorkshire Air Museum in Elvington , which make a huge contribution to the local area . this week , it will be host a " we ' ll meet again " weekend to celebrate VE Day and take resident back to the 1940 . finally , I must say that York be truly magical in its contribution to the war effort . it really contribute to the profound victory we have in Europe , and I pay tribute to the family that play their part . it be a real privilege to be able to contribute to this debate . it be right that we take the time to pause and reflect on the sacrifice that the great generation make . not only be the generation that fight in the war mostly no long with we , but even those who remember the war as a child be get few and few by the day . my mum often talk about how her early memory be the party and my grandparent dress up , but only later do she realise what it be . the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) remind we why that generation often do not talk about what they have experience and the difficulty they have share . before the new town of Cumbernauld be create , the people of the village that make up my constituency be miner , weaver and farm worker . they all play a massive part in fuel and feed the nation and contribute to what we now refer to as the defence industry . we do not remember these people every year on Remembrance Sunday , but it be important to pay tribute to their work today , because they be as big a part of the war effort as those who fight in the armed service . my family member be those essential worker . my grandfather , Sam Laidlaw , be an engineer in a paper mill that have be repurpose for essential war work . my other granddad , John Murray , be a dairyman whose farmhand be woman from the Land Army and prisoner of war who be bring in daily from a camp up the road . my great - aunt , Helen Murray , be a nurse in Clydebank during the two day of the blitz . none of they ever talk about it . represent a new town , it be difficult to look at our war memorial and not think of the town as it be today — the seventh big in Scotland — instead of as the village that it once be . the name be so familiar and so similar — a full generation of a village wipe out . it would be the same across the nation . I be glad we have be able to make time today to pay tribute to all those who play a role , whatever that role be . whether that be in the armed force , the mill , the farm or the mine , we thank you . I be always humble by the history of this Chamber , but more so than ever today . it be a Government of national unity who steer the United Kingdom through the second world war , and the name of Churchill , Attlee , Eden , Bevin and Sinclair all deserve to echo through history . conservative , liberal and Labour mp unite in service to defend our nation , our ally and our value in the struggle against tyranny . as we commemorate VE day 80 year on , I begin with a tribute to our political leader of the time , because it be not inevitable that history would take the course that it do . in the early summer of 1940 , some voice call for we to make peace with Hitler . my hon . friend talk about commemoration . the Westhoughton branch of the Royal British Legion , set up in 1921 after 109 soldier from the town die in the first world war , be one of the first of its kind in the country . with that in mind , will he congratulate the Westhoughton branch of the Royal British Legion on the excellent VE commemoration event that be host at the weekend ? I will happily congratulate the branch of the Royal British Legion in my hon . friend ' s constituency and all those across the country , which be do such valuable work . after the fall of France , there be some who say that despite the heroism at Dunkirk , our military be on the back foot . a small number advocate for talk with Germany might even have suggest , to use a modern phrase , that we do not have many card to play — thank goodness their advice be so emphatically reject . the decision to stand against Hitler ' s Germany in 1940 be not bear merely of self - preservation ; it be so much more . it be a free and proud country say that aggressor can not be reward , that a hateful ideology must be oppose and that our ally be worth fight for . those be timeless lesson . the great debt we all owe be to the brave man and woman who serve and sacrifice so much during the bad conflict that humanity have ever know . Hatfield , in my constituency , be rightly famous as the birthplace of the Geoffrey de Havilland Mosquito fighter bomber , one of the RAF ' s most effective weapon against the Luftwaffe and an example of the ingenuity that be so crucial to the war effort . know as the " Wooden Wonder " , more than 6 , 500 Mosquitos be deliver to ally force over the course of the conflict , and it be believe that more than 3 , 000 be build on site in Hatfield . the neighbour in Welwyn Garden City have an integral role to play as well . a few mile north and east of Hatfield , Panshanger aerodrome start out in 1940 as a decoy factory , lure the Luftwaffe bomber away from Hatfield aerodrome . after victory in the battle of Britain , and with the threat of bombing raid easing , the aerodrome officially become RAF Panshanger in 1943 and operate as an important fly school . Welwyn Garden City be also a sanctuary for jewish people flee the evil of Nazi tyranny . civilian be welcome from 1933 onwards , and Applecroft hostel be establish on the west side of town . thank to the record of the Welwyn Garden City interfaith group , we know the story of Sam Otto , a 21 - year - old jewish man , who escape the Nazis in Leipzig , travel bravely across Europe and be welcome into the hostel in 1939 . he say on his arrival , " if the hostel wasn ' t heaven , it must be next door to it . " today , Welwyn Garden City be home to a thriving ukrainian population , as our community once again open its arm to those in great need . as we commemorate VE and VJ Day , I feel exceptionally fortunate to stand in the Commons Chamber where our political predecessor have the resolve to stand united against Nazi tyranny . I be equally proud to represent Welwyn Hatfield , to recognise some of the contribution make to the war effort and to simply say thank you to everyone who fight for freedom . as we reflect on this historic moment , the 80th anniversary of VE Day , we remember the significant contribution of our community , our country and our Commonwealth . we have hear some very moving and powerful contribution today in this debate from across the Chamber . my own part of the country , Colchester , play a pivotal part in the second world war : our resident serve on the frontline and on the home front ; our industry step up ; and our river and coastline be fortify as part of the eastern command line . many of those fortification can still be see in our Castle Park and along the River Colne . they be just a few example of the many that I could give of the resilience and determination of the people of Colchester during those dark time . the presence of the armed force in our community today , and also of veteran of course , be a testament to our endure commitment to national security and our readiness to respond to crisis both at home and abroad . Colchester be mark VE Day and our military history in many way this week , and over the course of many month . this weekend , I unveil a new blue plaque at the main gate entrance of the former cavalry barrack , which play such a vital part in the first world war , training and treat England ' s war horse . the historic guardhouse at that site have be restore and be a reminder of the century ’ long association of the military in Colchester . on Thursday , at Colchester town hall , we will raise the VE Day flag and the Pegasus flag , which be the flag of the airborne force who do so much to help we achieve victory . we will also gather at Colchester ' s war memorial with service personnel from 16 Air Assault Brigade and I will later join the nepalese community , remember the Gurkha soldier who contribute so much and who continue to make so many sacrifice in the fight for peace today . as we honour the sacrifice make by those who fight for our freedom 80 year ago , let we also acknowledge the ongoing contribution make by our present armed force . their commitment to protect our nation and uphold the value that we hold dear be as vital today as it be during the second world war , and we renew our commitment to they . and , as we hear early today , we must also renew our commitment to end conflict around the world , from Ukraine to the middle east . as we mark 80 year since the long - anticipate news that the evil Nazi regime , which have orchestrate the great act of mass murder in human history and terrorise Europe , have be defeat by the ally , I want to concentrate on the role of my constituency of High Peak in the second world war . so many of our man and woman serve their country during the war , but , sadly , far too many make the ultimate sacrifice in defeat fascism . although our community be spare much of the horrendous bombing that affect large area such as London , there be some notable exception . it be one July evening in 1942 when the Luftwaffe find themselves fly over High Peak . after fail to find the large propeller factory in Lostock , because of low cloud cover , the high - speed bomber wreak havoc on two High Peak village , one drop its bomb on Torr Vale and the other drop two bomb near Swizzels Sweet Factory . have those bomb land on the factory , the world may never have know Love Hearts , and many childhood would have be poor for it . the good news be that Swizzels be survive and thrive today . skip ahead to 1943 , more plane be fly over High Peak , but this time it be the 617 Squadron of the RAF practise the low - level flying need for Operation Chastise — the squadron more commonly know as the Dambusters . the Dambusters be vital in convince people that the ally be win the war against Nazism , and it be the roll hill of the High Peak that help the brave RAF personnel to pull it off . in this time of celebration and reflection , we naturally remember the strength and bravery of the people who fight during the second world war to keep our country free , and we must never lose sight of the scale of the sacrifice that people make when they join our armed force today . my uncle Ronald Pearce serve in the second world war and fight bravely in the italian campaign . he survive , but the war take its toll on he . it be a time when there be little understand and little do for those suffer from trauma and mental health issue . that be why I warmly welcome this Government ' s announcement of VALOUR — a UK - wide veteran ' support service that will work with health , employment and housing charity and which be back by one of the large ever government funding commitment for veteran . as we celebrate the incredible achievement of the great generation , we can not hide from the fact that we live today in an increasingly unstable world , with antisemitism once again on the rise and a war on european soil because of a tyrant ' s invasion of a neighbouring country . may our generation have all the fortitude and resilience of the generation we celebrate today . victory in Europe Day in 1945 be a moment of national rejoicing . it be also the moment when Britain and the world start to count the cost of war — the human catastrophe of totalitarianism . yet it would be hard to find anyone in the country who would say that the price be too high . I think we hear that today in the move recitation from the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) and the hon . member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) . that great generation fight for our country and for freedom , but they also fight for british value of democracy and the rule of law . it be estimate that in 1941 there be only 11 function democracy in the world , and half of those could trace their genesis back to this mother of Parliaments . it be no exaggeration to say that democracy be Britain ' s great gift to the world , and it be our duty to defend that gift , both at home and abroad . it be why I be pleased to see soldier from Ukraine marching in the VE Day parade this weekend . our war leader in 1945 know that win the war be only the first step to win peace . they start immediately to set up a series of international organisation , include the United Nations , the European Council , NATO and the European Coal and Steel Community . together they have protect democracy , freedom and human right for the past 80 year . the spread of democracy across the globe have be a great success , but we must not be complacent . threat to our democracy be real and not all come from hostile nation . some arise from condition in our own country . our society face great challenge , with yawn inequality that be great than at any time since the 1930 , when similar circumstance see fascism sweep across Europe . this be not a time for hand - off government ; it be a time for intervention . just as in the aftermath of the second world war when the Attlee Government promise good job , high - quality home , universal healthcare and educational opportunity for all , so the mission for this Government be to deliver that commitment anew to the british people . on this 80th anniversary of VE Day , we have so much to be proud of and thankful for as a nation . I be in complete concordance with the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) in that we need to take heed to protect , preserve and defend the precious gift of democracy , which be win at such great cost and selflessly bequeath to we by the wartime generation . I think I would leave my final word to churchill himself , who in his address to Parliament on 8 May 1945 add a coda that be not include in his original broadcast — he actually say these word initially to the medium , so I hope he get permission from the Speaker at the time before come to the House . Churchill say that the strength of the parliamentary institution have be show to enable it to at the same time wage war and " preserve all the title deed of democracy " . — [ Official Report , 8 May 1945 ; Vol . 410 , c . 1869 . ] this week , event be be hold across the Bishop Auckland constituency celebrate 80 year of peace in Europe , which follow a war so terrible that we still mark the year since . I vividly remember celebrate the 50th ve day 30 year ago in my last year at primary school by dress up as an evacuee , singe Vera Lynn song and colour in a Union Jack to be hang as bunt . back then , some of that resilient war generation be still sprightly enough to kick a football , or at least to sit and share their memory with we . but age have weary they with each pass year , and few and few be still with we , so week like this be important , lest we ever forget that generation who stand firm against tyranny and cross land , sea and sky to secure the freedom we enjoy today . Bishop Auckland play its role by send young man off to war , care for evacuee and dig for victory . victory in Europe cost the good blood of the 20th century , and those who survive not only win the war , but go on to win the peace and build modern Britain , include the welfare state and the national health service . we owe that generation a debt we will never be able to repay . my grandad be just 19 when , with the 12th Yorkshire Battalion , he parachute into Ranville in the early hour of d - day , and later into Arnhem during Operation Market Garden . he never really speak of what he see until the final month of his life , but he carry it with he quietly . my dad recall a time when they sit to watch the film " the Longest Day " . in a scene when one of the officer shout , " come on , man , " Granddad walk across the room , turn off the telly and say , " they weren ' t man ; they be boy . " but home from war he come . he raise two son — for many year as a single father — and do his part to build a well world . he would have be amazed to have a grandson serve in this place . the victory win in Europe 80 year ago this week be not a victory for Britain and France over Germany , but of liberal democracy over fascism and racism . it be a victory for the whole of Europe . Europe be the good example of last peace and reconciliation that the world have ever see . may we always see ourselves as friend and ally and never surrender to those who want to divide we . across the world in Ukraine , Gaza , Sudan and beyond , we see conflict once again rob child of their home , and family of their future . here in Europe , Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine have shatter assumption that peace in our continent be secure . it be not ; it must be defend . peace must be defend not only with arm but with unity across Europe , with moral clarity and with political courage to stand up for international law and human right . remembrance be not nostalgia ; it be responsibility . if we be to honour a generation that fight for we , we must fight in our time for the peace that they give we . as I be bear in 1958 , my childhood be surround by people who have fight in world war two , but as a child it all seem so long ago . my father be an RAF doctor serve in the middle east and in East Anglia . the fatality rate of the air crew be quite appalling , not least because of all those kill as the plane crash . I remember story my dad tell we of crawl into stricken plane to extract wound pilot . like many who fight in the war , he speak about it only in his great old age , but now that I have grandchild of my own , it no long seem so long ago . what trick time and memory play on all of we . Suffolk be on the frontline defend our country . our airfield be key to the liberation of Europe . the brave man of the United States air force fly bombing raid from Rougham deep into Europe , and the incredible fighter ace and double amputee Wing Commander Douglas Bader fly from RAF Honington . vanishingly few of that generation be among we now , but I be delighted to send my congratulation to one of they — Jim Grant , from Stowmarket — on his 100th birthday last year . Jim sign up to the Royal Marines in 1943 and serve until 1946 . he be present at D - day , fire for the troop at Sword , Juno and Gold beach . I salute his service . we must also never forget the thousand of extraordinary ordinary citizen who make this contribution to the people ' s war for freedom . in Suffolk , we receive thousand of volunteer for the woman ' s land army from all over the country to milk cow , pull potato and drive tractor . they be determined and indomitable , and alongside the home guard and the ARP warden they make a huge contribution to our victory . many in the House will find it quite unbelievable that war have return to Europe . as we speak , rocket and drone be be fling at city , and civilian hide in air raid shelter . those who start war do not respect the lesson of history , which , as the great songwriter say , be simply blow in the wind . they must not be allow to win . I therefore welcome the Government ' s choice to increase defence spending and applaud the commitment to go far — 2 . 5 % be really not enough . eighty year ago , Mr Churchill address the Commons from the other place , this Chamber have be hollow out by a direct bomb strike . on the same day , he remind we that Britons be the first " to draw the sword against tyranny . " we can not forget that . it have now fall to we to safeguard the peace that his generation win , and we must put aside our political difference . eighty year ago , celebration break out across the country that be spontaneous , joyful and often very noisy . there be a group of people , however , who be not talk loudly about the work they have do during the war . some be base in Leighton Buzzard , in a place call Q Central . it be a secret communication hub and at its height , more than 2 , 000 people — predominantly woman — be work there , run the large telephone exchange in the entire world . many in the constituency and far afield think that more people need to find out about this contribution . lot of people know about the neighbouring secret work at Bletchley , but Leighton Buzzard ' s contribution have not be recognise for too long . I be proud of the work of a local historian call Paul Brown , who have be bring that secret work to the public ' s attention . I thank my hon . friend for her remarkable speech , remember those who contribute to our war effort . will she join I in remember all those who fight and fall in world war two from across my Penistone and Stocksbridge constituency , in particular those who work at Samuel Fox ' s steelwork in stocksbridge to make munition and equipment to enable a successful outcome to the war ? I absolutely think that everyone ' s contribution to the war effort be vital to ensure victory and peace . this Thursday , I will be at Leighton Buzzard war memorial with local people , lay a wreath in memory of those who serve at Q Central . it be vital that we make sure that the people whose wartime service be carry out in the shadow be now bring into the light . as I reflect on VE day and the celebration of victory over fascism in Europe , it strike I that the war effort be one of common endeavour by ordinary people such as my grandad , who be a translator at Bletchley Park , and Richard Brock , who , when I meet he last year , be 100 year young . Richard be one of the man who liberate Bergen - Belsen concentration camp . to sit with someone who have know that horror at first hand truly be a privilege , and it be a privilege to pass on my personal thank on behalf of a survivor ' s family . that be because my friend Krysh have a polish grandma , and she survive Belsen . after her liberation , she come to Britain and settle here . the rest , as they say , be history . except it be not just history , be it ? it be not something that we can bring out to look at on special occasion and congratulate ourselves on beat fascism before put it away until the next anniversary . it do not start with the camp , do it ? it never do . no , it be more insidious than that . it be a slow and constant poisoning of mind by people intent only on power . it be a setting up of different group as scapegoat . it be the use of pseudoscience to back up an ideology of racism and eugenic . it be the use of propaganda to turn people into caricature and the use of the press to create a narrative of blame . it be the turning of ordinary people on their neighbour . it be take the propensity of human to group together and turn that into a sinister tribalism . why look to the difficult solution to complex problem when people can simply blame the group , over there , that they have be teach over many year to hate and fear ? in the ' 20 and ' 30 , it be the Jews , the Gypsies , the gay and the disabled . it be the intellectual and the trade unionist . it be anyone who challenge that narrative of hate . so who be it today ? Fascism do not start with the camp , and the idea underpin fascism be not artefact of history . I end with the plea that we do not treat fascism and tyranny as an historical artefact , and that we remember that they be a living possibility — even now , even here . the overthrow of fascism be not a bauble to admire once a year . rather , it be a reminder that we should never let it get that far ever again , that we must be on our guard and that we should never let it flourish . rise — Order . with a two - minute time limit , I call Luke Myers . today we remember the extraordinary courage , sacrifice and service that bring about victory in Europe 80 year ago , and it have be a privilege to join VE Day commemoration right across my constituency this week . I be proud of our community for organise so many event to honour that brave generation . in our town and village , we remember all those who answer that call of service , many of whom would never return . we think of serviceman include Stan Hollis , a local lad from Middlesbrough who earn the only Victoria Cross award on D - Day for his sheer bravery in Normandy . we remember servicemen such as Harry Tout , a future mayor of Guisborough , who fight in north Africa and up the spine of Italy . and we remember the airmen , the mariner , the Green Howards and all the other who lay down their life for freedom . we also pay tribute to those who play their part on the home front , from the land girl in our North Yorkshire countryside to the woman and man of steel , the shipbuilder and steelworker who keep the country afloat . this make Teesside a target and it be one of the first place in Britain to suffer casualty in the blitz , but the industrial haze also cloud enemy target , with the smog protect the Smoggies . that generation ' s courage make peace possible . their service shape the world we inherit and their patriotism be unwavering . we honour they today not only in word but in the way that , as a society , we stand together for each other and stand up to fear and hatred wherever it rear its head . as we remember they , we rededicate ourselves to the value they fight for : democracy , peace and fairness . on Thursday 6 March this year , I attend a poignant evening of commemoration in the Bathgate Regal theatre . I believe it be the first 80th anniversary of VE Day event in the UK , and it be a fitting tribute to our local hero . it be an emotional evening right from the get - go , when the Whitburn Band kick off with Glenn Miller , because my papa , John Sullivan , be a pianist in a big band . he be also a plumber from a small village north of Glasgow , who be pluck from that village and send to serve with the RAF in Burma , thousand of mile from his home . he have probably never leave the UK before — he might not even have leave Scotland before — and he do not know when or if he would return home . but he do return home , and I be here today . my mind also turn to my other grandfather , Jimmy Campbell , who serve as a miner all his day , again make an essential contribution to the war in a dangerous role like so many other in those day . for example , the Linlithgow Munitionettes , the woman who work in the Nobel munition factory , be expose to hazardous toxin day in , day out . on 5 February 1943 , four of those woman go to work and never return home due to an explosion . thank to the work of a local historian , Kathryn Welch , a light have be show on the Linlithgow woman once again , and effort be under way to remember their service . these example speak to the service of a generation — ordinary people who do extraordinary thing in the name of service and democracy . we owe they a debt of gratitude that we can not repay , but we must honour their legacy by standing united and resolute in the defence of democracy today . with the co - operation of colleague , we get everybody in . we now come to the Front - Bench speaker , start with the shadow Secretary of State . it be a pleasure and privilege to wind up such an excellent debate . I pay tribute to all the contribution we have hear as we in Parliament follow the public yesterday in take our turn to mark the 80th anniversary of VE day — one of the most momentous day in our country ' s history . VE Day be the triumph of freedom over tyranny in Europe . we must be forever grateful to all those who serve to deliver that victory , not least as the great poignancy of this year ' s anniversary have come from the fading of our living link to those who be there at the time . but that link still remain ; there be a particularly powerful moment yesterday at the start of VE Day proceeding in Parliament Square when world war two RAF veteran Alan Kennett , turn 101 later this month , formally give the military procession its send - off , hold the torch of peace . that living link , often through family , really matter . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) can not be here today , but I know how much his lifelong passion for the armed force stem from his father ' s service with the Royal Navy on D - day . throughout most of my life , I have a reminder of the war every single day because my late mother be call Faith precisely because she be bear in 1941 when our eventual victory be far from certain . although my mother regard herself as English , she be bear in Haverfordwest in Wales because her dad , my late grandfather , be a civil engineer who in wartime switch from build railway to run a naval munition factory at Trecwn in Wales ; maybe defence procurement be in my blood — who know ? as many have stress , it be important to remember that the war do not finish on VE Day and that 80 year ago some of the most bitter fighting would still come in the Pacific theatre . I therefore join my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) in look forward to celebrate VJ Day in August . there be many fine speech . a particular theme be the contribution of so many nation fight alongside we under our command . the hon . member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) stress the role of every part of the Union , particularly strong from Northern Ireland . the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) and for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) stress the role of the Commonwealth , and the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) specifically mention the role of the indian armed force , which be ironic give what be happen as we speak in term of India and Pakistan . of course , those force fight so bravely in world war two , at Monte Cassino in particular . the hon . member for Coatbridge and Bellshill ( Frank McNally ) and for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) stress the presence of polish force in their constituency , include those involve at Market Garden , in that epic battle . the hon . member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) stress the involvement of canadian troop . my hon . friend the Member for Bridlington and the Wolds ( Charlie Dewhirst ) mention the Free French host in his constituency , and the hon . member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) remind we of the historical contribution of the nepalese community , which continue to this day with the incredible contribution of the Gurkha regiment . it be a particular privilege to hear from those colleague who serve in the armed force . the hon . and gallant Member for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) speak about the importance of his experience visit a ukrainian defence company . I also have that experience recently ; it be a real lesson and incredibly inspiring . my hon . friend the Member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) speak movingly of his grandfather , whose incredible contribution include D - day , Operation Varsity and of course the traumatic experience of liberate concentration camp . I hope that inspire he to his own distinguished career in the marine . my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , in an excellent speech , stress the crucial role of RAF Molesworth and RAF Wyton . we have all the pomp and ceremony on the Mall , but the real story of VE Day celebration be in community up and down the country . a number of colleague speak about community celebration , include the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) , for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) , for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) and for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) . the hon . member for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) make a fascinating speech , remind we of the important role of RAF Hawkinge in intercept the fly bomb , as they be call then . it be ironic because of course we now talk about the menace of drone fly over Ukraine . a number of colleague speak about the important role of woman , especially in wartime industry , include the hon . member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) and the hon . member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy , who speak of the role of her grandmother in the defence industry . a number of colleague also speak of the contribution of woman work on our farm to ensure that we have food security during the war , include my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) ; my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , in a fantastic speech ; and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who remind we in particular of the contribution of the Women ' s Land Army . the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) remind we of what he call the long tail of war — its lasting psychological impact . the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) stress the important role of RAF Valley , which be one of the most enjoyable visit of my time as a Defence Minister . the Chair of the Defence Committee , the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , make an excellent intervention when he say that surely the most important lesson of world war two be to always stand up to aggressor . that be why it have be so important to support Ukraine as it face another european war inflict without a shred of justification by another aggressive , bully dictator . I be incredibly proud of what we do in government to support Ukraine , and like the hon . member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) , I be move to see the ukrainian soldier join our VE Day procession yesterday . I hope that one day , we will get to attend their VE Day celebration . it be wonderful that our nation have once again have the chance to pay a glorious tribute to that incredible generation who secure victory over tyranny 80 year ago . we must never forget the lesson from that terrible war : to always stand up for democracy and freedom , and to do so by back our armed force and stand strong with our ally against the bullying dictator who threaten we once again . it be a great personal privilege to close this debate . I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , for her inspire opening speech and every member who have contribute so thoroughly to a memorable and important debate . after the gun fall silent in Europe , during those historic day in May 1945 , a period of endure peace begin between the major global power . that peace be secure by a courageous and undaunted generation of british man and woman , and have last almost 80 year . those man and woman who serve on the frontline , in the factory , down the mine , on the farm or embed with our ally demonstrate the very good of Britain ' s character . their grit and fierce resolve carry Britain through the bleakest of time to victory . the commemoration we have see this week be a fitting way to pay tribute to their generation and to thank they for what they do for our country — indeed , for the whole world . as Minister for Veterans and People , I particularly want to express my profound gratitude to all the serve personnel and veteran who be take part this week from Britain and across the Commonwealth , and of course our ukrainian ally who take part in the parade yesterday . whether they be join the many event here in London and across the nation in person or watch and listen from home , the nation be eternally grateful for their service and the unflagge sacrifice of not just they but their family , who serve as well . I have witness the cost of conflict at first hand . I stand before this House as not only a Minister but a military veteran . during multiple tour in all corner of the world , I have see the very good of humanity , in the form of remarkable courage and comradeship under pressure . I have also see its darkest aspect . never be those two extreme more apparent than during the second world war . this week , we commemorate 80 year since the liberation of Europe and the west from a period of dark and violent tyranny . we remember all who suffer and fight against the unimaginable horror of war . we also remember the remarkable british and ally soldier who liberate Europe , who witness the catastrophic consequence of unchecked authoritarianism that attempt to redraw international boundary through the use of force — a wise person once say , " history doesn ' t repeat itself , but it sure do rhyme " — and who rise to the immense challenge of bring hope to a place where hopelessness have take root . remember these story and event be an honour and an obligation . they remind we of the importance of stand up to dictator and aggressor . as with many thing , Churchill say it well . it be " a victory of the great british nation as a whole … to draw the sword against tyranny . " no duty be more vital to the Government than protect the security of the british people . even after eight decade without a major world conflict , the illegal invasion of Ukraine and the ensue war for its right to self - determination have remind we that we have no inalienable right to peace . to win a last peace , we must deter the use of force through deft diplomacy and strength . that be why this Government be work flat out to build a strong , more robust armed force , which value and reward service personnel for their courage , their outsize contribution to society and their unwavering commitment to defend our nation . it be why we be make the big increase in defence spending since 2010 , and it be why we be modernise defence through a comprehensive strategic defence review , defence reform and defence industrial strategy . I would like to respond to some of the point raise during the debate . my hon . friend the Member for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) highlight the important point that war be not win by army , navy or air force ; they be win by economy , industry and society . that be never more tell than in Ukraine , where we see a scale of conflict that be incomprehensible in some case . in world war two the UK have just under 400 , 000 kill in action . in Ukraine , the Russians have already take 950 , 000 casualty . that mean that by the end of this debate , the Russians will have take over 2 , 000 to 3 , 000 casualty — in one single day . there be thousand of drone strike a day , 16 , 000 artillery round use a day , and thousand of tank destroy . Woe betide any democracy or individual that take our peace and democratic system for grant . I thank the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) , who pay tribute to the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit . I believe that the national monument be proceed through the planning procedure as we speak . we be also almost there with the monument to Dame Vera Lynn , and member have my full support with that as we move forward . as this debate draw to a close , I again thank all member for their contribution . it be a simple fact that it be society that win war . we have hear amazing story from across all our constituency about those integral part , whether that be industry , farmer , or the miner who contribute to the war effort . that be truly remarkable , and it be right to recognise they . it be also right that we pause from the regular cadence of our political work to recognise the immense scale of sacrifice that lead Europe to freedom , out of the darkness of violence and tyranny . that generation of our countryman and woman give their life so that we might live freely . they leave we and the next generation a reminder that freedom be not free , that we must be resilient during difficult time , and that we must always remember , because " the nation that forget its defender will itself be forget " . in my search for inspiration on how good to close this debate , I stumble across a quote that perhaps capture the essence of the british spirit to fight and defend . it be by an unknown american soldier , and it go along these line : " those Brits be a strange old race . they show affection by abuse each other , and will think nothing of casually stop in the middle of a firefight for a ' brewup ' " — to make a drink — " but I would rather have one british squaddie on side than an entire battalion of Spetsnaz ! why ? because the British be the only people in this world who when the chip be down and it seem like there be no hope leave , instead of get sentimental will strap on their pack , charge their rifle , and calmly and wryly grin , ' well , let ' s get after it . ' " question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe and victory over Japan . Petition - Petrol price in Dunfermline I rise to present a petition regard high fuel price for people and business in Dunfermline . price in Dunfermline , Scotland ' s historical capital city , be often as much as 6p per litre high than in town as close as 10 mile away . this cartel of pricing in and around Dunfermline be damage small business , and unnecessarily increase the cost to people get to work , family on the school run or the child taxi service , as well as young people get to college or training place . it be also increase carbon emission as a result of driver travel outside the city for cheap fuel . the petition be sign by my constituent and back by more than 600 people who have sign an online petition relate to the same issue . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar , declare that resident in Dunfermline be be unfairly charge high fuel price compare to nearby area ; state that fuel be an essential commodity require by the majority of people within Dunfermline for their daily life and essential for the local and regional economy ; understand unfair petrol pricing put a significant strain on family income particularly young people , those on low income and small business ; and note that over 600 people have sign an online petition relate to this issue . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to instruct the Competition and Markets Authority ( CMA ) to investigate high petrol price in Dunfermline compare to the immediate area and take immediate action to address this that will ensure petrol price be fair and competitive in Scotland ' s historic capital and new city . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003066 ] Neon Signage Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a few comment and observation on the debate we have just have . it be a profound debate , in which colleague speak about their personal experience and their family member . it be fitting that we have it as a way of recognise the sacrifice that million and million of people in our armed force make . I think of the expression : " they shall grow not old , as we that be leave grow old : age shall not weary they , nor the year condemn . at the going down of the sun and in the morning we will remember they . " the celebration and the debate today be a way of remember they . I will talk about a couple of thing , one of which the Minister in the previous debate speak about — stand up for what be right . my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) talk about the fact that thing do not happen in isolation . she talk about how in the second world war there be a demonisation and othering of community , which lead to the catastrophe that occur . she also say that those thing be still happen . I will mention that I be a very proud british and Pakistani Muslim — I be bear in Pakistan . at this moment , Pakistanis and Muslims be be demonise by many people — not just the mainstream medium , but senior politician who should know well than to cause division . I remind the House of the contribution of the Commonwealth to the fighting in the second world war , which be allude to early . my uncle have a King ' s commission in the British Army at the time , and other member of my family fight for the british Army . in addition , 5 . 5 million Muslims across the world take part in the war , and many of they die . there be 2 . 5 million people in the indian army , and 1 million of they be Muslims ; many of they would have be in what be now call Pakistan . it be important that those thing be remember when we look at history and the contribution make by many people . I will be honest : at this moment in time , with the discourse that be happen in our country and the demonisation of people on boat , migrant and other , I be actually scared . I see the rise of fascism happen , which be exactly what happen in the second world war . I know that the majority of people in this country be brilliant , wise and sensible and will not let those thing happen , but it be timely that we have a discussion such as today ' s debate so that we can remind everybody of the pitfall that exist . like you , Madam Deputy Speaker , I have be on the armed force parliamentary scheme ; I have be with the Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force . I have meet some of our current Army and Air Force personnel , and I pay a big tribute to they for the wonderful work that they do to protect our country . I respect , cherish and admire they , and we should do as much as we can to help our armed service and veteran . that be the least we can do for the sacrifice that they have make for our country . I return to the Adjournment debate . I know that its topic might have cause people some confusion — what on earth do the protection of neon signage as a creative industry mean ? today be an opportunity for I to speak on an issue that may seem niche at first glance , but that speak to a broad truth about the way that we value heritage , craftsmanship and the lifeblood of our creative economy . I rise to speak in support of the campaign to protect the heritage craft of neon sign making — a uniquely british tradition that be now at risk . Neon be discover here in the United Kingdom in 1898 . after its discovery , Sir William Ramsay and Morris Travers demonstrate that by pass electricity through the gas , they could make it glow , pave the way for iconic neon sign the world over , from Piccadilly Circus to Times Square . my constituency of Bolton South and Walkden be proud to be home to Neon Creations , a small but dedicated business lead by Catherine and Tony Spink . since 2005 , they have be handcraft authentic neon sign use technique that date back over a century . they do not mass produce or cut corner — they be artisan in the true sense of the word . I support everything that my hon . Friend say . I commission a piece of neon artwork from a local artist , Stuart Langley , in Teesside a number of year ago . do she agree that neon be as valid a medium of expression as any other artistic endeavour ? absolutely , and I will go on to talk about the amount of work and experience that artist need to work with neon . I recently visit Tony and Catherine at their studio and I be transport to a magical world of amazing colour . I see the stunning artwork that they have produce and be give a demonstration of how they bend the glass to create their sign , which I manage to do as well . to watch they be truly fascinating , but this proud craft be under threat , not because we no long appreciate its beauty , but because it be be quietly and insidiously erode by mislead marketing and unfair competition from mass - produce light - emit diode imitation product , often deliberately and incorrectly label as neon sign . let I be clear : if it be not make of glass and fill with gas , it be not a neon sign . the hon . Lady be put forward an argument for the creative industry , but what the neon sign market have create can not be ignore . I always do my study before I come to the Chamber to take part in the Adjournment debate . MarketWatch predict that the neon sign market will grow by 7 . 5 % annually between 2024 and 2031 , make some $ 3 . 3 billion by 2031 . be there not a way for the neon sign market and the creative sector to work together to the advantage of all ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . I will touch on a few more thing . authentic neon sign be handcraft from glass tube that be heated , bent and shape by hand , then fill with inert gas , like neon or argon . it be a meticulous and time - consume process require year of training , dexterity and experience . there be only 27 full - time neon glass bender leave in the United Kingdom , down from hundred in previous decade . it be a red - list , endanger craft and , without action , it will be lose . the problem we face be not just commercial , but cultural : it be about the loss of a craft that be as british as Harris tweed or Sheffield cutlery . in fact , like Harris tweed , we believe that neon sign deserve formal legal protection through a certification mark , a define british standard or , ideally , the introduction of a neon sign protection Act . this be not an anti - technology argument . lead signage have its place — it be cheap , mass - produce and useful in many application — but to allow business to market led sign as " neon " be mislead consumer , harm artisan and erase our heritage . let I illustrate how this be affect real business . Neon Creations have see a sharp drop in demand because customer be be tell by large retailer that £ 30 led sign be neon sign . the product may look superficially similar , but they be entirely different in construction , quality and artistry . when customer receive they and discover that they be not authentic , they contact business like Neon Creations not to buy but to ask for repair on something that be not actually neon . Catherine and Tony have face online harassment and threat of legal action , and have have their comment block on social medium for merely correct the record . that be what come to people when they tell truth to power . let we consider the fact . Neon be safe . despite common misconception , neon sign be power by low amperage and do not get dangerously hot . the gas use — neon and argon — be inert and naturally occur in our atmosphere . Neon be efficient . a typical neon sign for business use cost around 21p per day to run , barely more than an led and far less than people assume . Neon be sustainable — unlike plastic - heavy led product , neon sign be make of glass and be fully recyclable . perhaps most importantly , neon sign last much long . they have a lifespan of at least 10 year , outpace led alternative , so why be we allow this confusion to persist ? why be we allow mislead label ? the british Sign and Graphics Association , the Heritage Crafts Association , the Federation of Small Businesses and the Greater Manchester chamber of commerce all support strong protection for neon craftsmanship . this be not just about one constituency or one business ; it be about defend the principle that authenticity matter , and that heritage craft should be recognise , not undermine by the march of mass production . we must also address the issue of consumer transparency . it should not be acceptable for retailer , large or small , to market a product as neon when it contain no glass , no gas and no craftsmanship . we have rightly challenge fake olive oil and falsely label meat ; we must apply the same standard in this case . Harris tweed be protect by law , ensure that only fabric hand - weave in the Outer Hebrides can bear that name . we propose a similar model for neon sign , which could take the form of a certification mark that can only be apply to genuine glass neon product ; a formal british standard for neon sign , develop with input from the British Standards Institution and the BSGA ; and maybe a private Member ' s Bill , a neon sign protection Act , that would enshrine a legal definition of the term " neon " . these measure would not be burdensome , and they would not create red tape . they would simply be a way of tell the truth in advertising and provide a very important protection to a very small but significant industry . let we not forget the cultural value of neon . it be signage , but it be also art ; it evoke memory of cinema , diner , music venue and city skyline . it be a symbol of expression and identity , and to lose it would be to dim the vibrant glow of Britain ' s creative past . Neon Creations and other similar business be try to pass on their skill to the next generation , but they can not , because there be not enough work to justify train new glass bender . as of now , there be no full - time neon trainee in the whole of the United Kingdom . if we do not act , the pipeline of skill will close forever . that be why I be in the Chamber today to advocate for that pipeline and the small business that refuse to give up on this craft . I have write to the Secretary of State , urge the Government to support clear definition and protection for neon sign . I know that the all - party parliamentary group for craft be supportive of that campaign and be look into the next step , but more need to be do . will we stand by and watch the light go out on one of Britain ' s most unique and visually iconic craft , or will we act to ensure that when someone buy a neon sign in this country , they be buy the real thing ? this campaign be not just about glow tube of gas ; it be about truth , heritage and the people behind the glass — people such as Tony and Catherine Spink in Bolton . they be people whose livelihood depend on honesty in our market and fairness in our law . let we give they that protection . let we light the way for the future of british neon , and let we ensure that the word " neon " once again stand for authenticity , artistry and excellence . that be an absolutely fascinating speech . I look forward to the response from the Minister . I be sure that you look forward to every response from a Government Minister , Madam Deputy Speaker . I note that my hon . friend the Member for Bolton South and Walkden ( Yasmin Qureshi ) end her speech by say , " let we light the way for the future of british neon " . I be grateful to she for secure this important debate and , consistent with her approach , I be also grateful for her thoughtful and rather illuminate speech — if you will forgive the pun , Madam Deputy Speaker . I do not actually write that pun ; somebody in my Department , to whom I be enormously grateful , write it . sack they . no , I be not sack they . you can not call for civil servant to be sack from the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , otherwise people will call for you to be sack . as the jamaican reggae artist Tenor Saw and Bob Marley have lyricise , " life be one big road with lot of sign " . this debate have shine a light on not just neon signage itself , but the wide question of how we protect , support and promote the often overlook corner of our creative economy . let we be absolutely clear : as my hon . Friend say , neon be not simply about advertising , and it be not just a relic of a bygone era . it be artistry and craftsmanship ; it be a part of our live heritage and of the live texture of our urban and rural landscape . I remember for a while there be a neon sign on enter the Rhondda that use to say , " two can dine for £ 1 . 99 . fine dining . " [ Laughter . ] I think it be slightly out of date . from Glasgow to Blackpool and from the corner pub to the west end theatre marquee , there be neon . behind each flicker of neon gas be a maker , a designer , a glass - bender and an engineer of light . these be not just tradespeople , but creative professional sustain a skillset pass down through generation . many artist in the UK and across the world have take advantage of what be , as my hon . Friend say , great british invention . it be only in about 1912 that it pass to the United States of America and become part of its advertising hoarding . we think about neon advert , but it be an essential art form , too . we have only to think of many of Tracey Emin ' s neon work , such as " fantastic to feel beautiful Again " , which be a beautiful piece , or — apology for this , Madam Deputy Speaker ; do not get overexcite — " kiss I , kiss I , Cover my body in Love " , which be another great work . the Liverpool artist Chila Kumari Singh Burman ' s work often use neon . I go to an extraordinarily wonderful exhibition of hers at the Imperial War Museum North , which have large amount of neon , draw on her family ' s tradition of run a shop . member may recall that a few year ago she cover Tate Britain during the winter period with lot of different neon sign . for that matter , people can go online — this be my advertising for the Tate — and buy one of her tiger or ice cream neon work for £ 950 . for that matter , at Tate Modern there be Martin Creed ' s work , " DON ' t WORRY " . it be difficult not to sing , " Don ' t worry " , be it not ? a few year ago at Tate Britain , the Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans do an extraordinary piece , which I really remember , because it be such a contrast with the gallery it be in . it be 2 km of neon light . that be back in 2017 . the creative industry as a whole , as my hon . friend will know , contribute £ 124 billion a year to the UK economy , and neon , as a niche but important part of that ecosystem , have a dual role in commerce and in our culture . advertising be one of our key export in the UK and an important part of our creative industry , too . we need just think of the Piccadilly Circus sign , God ' s Own Junkyard , or the glow of a fish and chip shop on a rainy Tuesday night . these be not just sign , but signifier of place , of character and of british eccentricity . they be thing that imprint themselves in our memory as part of what we think of as our own home town . I hear the call today for consumer transparency and great support — the point be well make — whether through plan protection , trademarking or cultural preservation funding . under exist legislation and guidance , there be provision in place to protect unique aspect of our historic environment , include street furniture and signage . indeed , the entrance range of the Walthamstow Stadium , with its fabulous neon sign , be grade II list . anyone can recommend a building , site , monument , designate landscape , battlefield or , indeed , sign for inclusion on the national heritage list for England , so long as they meet the eligibility requirement . I encourage people to do that . I hope the House will allow I — apology again for this — to cast a light on my Department ' s work on live heritage . I encourage neon crafter to make a submission to the inventory of live heritage in the UK when we open the call for submission later this year , follow our incorporation of the convention last year . that be a fantastic opportunity for the neon craft community to advocate for their craft , raise awareness and be part of a wide conversation on live heritage . let I also address another point that my hon . Friend make , which be about sustainability . she be right that some people have incorrectly express concern about energy use by neon , when modern neon be far more efficient than its reputation suggest . when maintain , it outlast led , be recyclable and in some case be even repairable . on consumer transparency and the use of the term neon , I fully understand the concern that clear definition and protection could help prevent confusion for consumer and help preserve the value of handcrafted neon signage . we have only to go online for two or three minute to find lot of different supposedly neon sign be advertise relatively cheaply , which be no more neon than they fly in the air . they be sometimes describe as " lead neon sign " , which be a contradiction in term . I fully take on board the point that my hon . friend have make , and I thank she for bring this matter to our attention as we engage with department across Whitehall on their trademark policy development . this be not solely a matter for the Department for Culture , Media and Sport . as I say early , protect neon be not about nostalgia . it be about support livelihood , unlock tourism , and give our public space character at a time when homogenisation threaten to reduce the character and unique identity of everything from our skyline to our high street . the Government hear the case be make for neon signage , not as a gimmick or an indulgence but as an essential , flicker thread in the tapestry of british creativity . we hear the concern from artist , from heritage body and from community who want to see colour , identity and local pride preserve . we be commit to work with industry , local government and the wide public to explore how good to secure the future of this unique form of creative expression . on this , we will not let the light go out . as the Greek - bear american neon artist Chryssa once say , " I see Times Square with its light and letter and I realize it be as beautiful and difficult to do as japanese calligraphy . " we should never let go of such artistry in our british tradition . illuminate ! question put and agree to . House adjourn .