business before Questions David Fuller Inquiry : phase 2 Interim Report Resolved , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction that there be lay before this House a Return of a report , date 15 October 2024 , entitle Independent Inquiry into the issue raise by the David Fuller case — phase 2 Interim Report — Funeral Sector . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — Health outcome : east midland what step his Department plan to take to improve health outcome in the east midland . Lord Darzi ' s report conclude that the health service be in a critical condition across the country , include in the east midland , where healthy life expectancy have decline in the past decade . waiting list in the region stand at slightly below the national average for 18 - week wait , at 57 % compare to the national average of 58 % . with two third of people have to wait more than four hour at Lincoln County hospital ' s A & E department and with horror story from my constituent of people wait up to 24 hour , do the Minister understand that if we be to save the NHS and give people the timely appointment they need , we must unleash the full power of the private sector ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for help to underline the shocking inheritance from the previous Government . he be absolutely right . we be committed to cut waiting time and serve constituent , like mine , by deliver the long - term reform the NHS desperately need . the Government be commit to the funding model . we be not go to change it . he try this every time , but we be commit to the funding model as it exist . a really important part of improve health outcome in the east midland , and across the country , be the use of diagnostic . the Rosalind Franklin laboratory , which be set up in my constituency , be close down just a few month ago at a cost of £ 0 . 6 billion . do my hon . friend agree that one of the most important thing we could do be to restore good quality diagnostic to our NHS ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be committed to improve diagnostic as part of our reform of the health sector . analysis of waiting list show that 20 % of people will end up with a hospital admission , most as a day case . to improve waiting time , the focus must be on early prevention , diagnostic and consultant review at an early stage . NHS Urgent and Emergency Care what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of NHS urgent and emergency care service . the recent independent report by Lord Darzi make it absolutely clear that urgent and emergency care service be also struggle , with the late datum publish last week show that one in 10 patient spend over 12 hour in A & E . we be committed to return to service standard that patient rightly expect through our ambitious 10 - year plan to reform the health service . in September 2021 , Victoria hospital in Deal lose provision for blood testing . after a long campaign by resident , it be agree that it would return . however , that have stall in the tendering process . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can move this forward ? I commend my hon . friend for champion this issue on behalf of his constituent . I understand that he have raise it with the chief executive officer of his local trust . he will appreciate that commission decision be a matter for the local integrate care board , in this case Kent and Medway ICB , but I be , of course , very happy to meet he to discuss it far . I wish the Minister well in her effort to address this issue , because it be extremely serious . there be very often more than 20 ambulance queue outside Treliske hospital , which have a serious impact on expectation for patient . will the Minister please look at the potential for urgent treatment centre to take pressure away from emergency department , such as the urgent treatment centre at West Cornwall hospital in Penzance , which really need to be re - establish on a 24 / 7 basis ? that would make a real impact . I thank the hon . gentleman for his good wish . it be , indeed , a huge task we have before we . we will maintain ambulance capacity throughout this winter . he make a valuable point about alternative model to hospital admission and treatment in the community . that be a matter for the local ICB , as I know he know . it need to look at which model be the good fit , particularly in rural area , to reduce the pressure on frontline A & E service . intermediate care for people face homelessness , which be recommend by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence , can reduce rough sleeping by around 70 % . that be life - change for people who have be sleep rough and it play a significant role in relieve pressure on hospital . a recent evaluation of intermediate care for people face homelessness in one county in England find a 56 % reduction in A & e visit and a 67 % reduction in emergency admission . what exist currently be a postcode lottery . how can we embed the nice approach in every integrate care system across England ? my hon . friend have highlight an issue that be often overlook . Homelessness have rise to shocking level in the last 14 year . when it be address under the last Labour Government , people be move off the street , and there be decent care at the front end of the hospital system and support in the community . my hon . friend be right : there be good example across the country , and we would like to see they embed as part of our overall goal , across Government , of reduce the scourge of homelessness in society and once again support the front end of the health service . I recently meet representative of the Royal College of Emergency Medicine , who tell I that the inadequate state of social care be result in the deterioration of people ' s physical health , lead to more presentation at emergency department . do the Minister agree that if social care be properly fund , pressure on our hospital would be reduce ? what we see at the front end of the system be a result of the deterioration throughout the system , and the flow of patient from the community , through discharge and , indeed , through social care . our ambitious 10 - year plan will involve examine the entire patient pathway to ensure that care be provide in the community , close to home . prevention be a key part of that , as be the look that we be take at social care . Adult Social Care what step he plan to take to reform adult social care . after 14 year of Tory neglect and incompetence , adult social care be on its knee . the number of people receive long - term care decrease between 2015 and 2023 , and there be a staggering 130 , 000 staff vacancy in the system . last Thursday , recognise the central role of our amazing care workforce , we take a critical first step by introduce the groundbreaking legislation that will establish the first ever fair pay agreement for care professional . I think it fair to say that this Government have do more for our adult social care worker in 14 week than the last lot do in 14 year . give unfunded scheme such as the propose national care service , give the new negotiating body ' s aim of establish a minimum pay floor , and give what clearly amount to an expensive top - down reorganisation of the care system , can the Minister explain how he will maintain and enhance the role of local authority , include Buckinghamshire Council , in target and deliver care , and how he plan to maintain day - to - day spending alongside this grand plan for reform , without raise taxis ? it beggar belief that Opposition Members should lecture we on fiscal discipline when there be a £ 22 billion in - year black hole . we be commit to consult widely on the design of a fair pay agreement , and we will engage with all who may be affect . we be keen to ensure that all voice be hear so that the financial impact on the adult social care market , local government and self - funder can be consider , but in a week in which this Government have attract £ 63 billion of investment and just day after the publication of the Employment Rights Bill , we be see a Government who be pro - business , pro - worker and pro - growth . adult social care be under extreme pressure . one in four hospital bed be occupy by patient with dementia . will the Minister commit himself to the delivery of a dementia strategy in the current Parliament ? that be an extremely important question . I recognise that dementia be a huge issue that impact on the entire country and , indeed , many member on both side of the House . we be absolutely committed to the research that be fundamental to address the problem , and our fair pay agreement be about not just pay but training and term and condition . we will be ramp up dementia training for our adult social care workforce . I call the shadow Minister . the labour manifesto speak of the need for a consensus on social care , and the Secretary of State have say that he want to reach out across the political divide — although the message do not seem quite to have reach the Minister yet . during Health and Social Care question in July , the Minister say that there would be announcement in the near future , but since then we have hear nothing . we be ready to talk ; when will the Government be ready ? I be not sure if the right hon . Gentleman be listen to my previous answer . we have just set out a groundbreaking piece of legislation to settle the issue of adult social care pay , which be more than the last lot do in 14 year . we be absolutely committed to build cross - party consensus . we know that we need a process that will be sustainable and fix adult social care for the long term . that absolutely include engagement and dialogue across this House , because we want to build a consensus that work . we recognise that successive government have fail to get a grip on this issue , but we recognise the vital role that adult social care will play . it be go to be a hugely important part of our 10 - year plan for the future of the NHS , and I look forward to engage with all hon . member on this issue . post - sepsis Syndrome what assessment he have make of the adequacy of treatment for post - sepsis syndrome . I thank the hon . member for raise awareness of this important issue . he have speak powerfully about the experience of patient in his constituency and his wife ' s personal battle with sepsis . the long - term complication of sepsis can have a devastating impact long after discharge from hospital . through the National Institute for Health and Care Research , the Department be fund research to improve outcome for sepsis survivor . last year , Abbi Hickson from Ashfield lose both her hand and her low leg to sepsis . the local hospital be very slow to diagnosis her condition , and since then she have be suffer from shortness of breath , fatigue and a lack of sleep . this could be post - sepsis syndrome , yet nobody at the hospital have speak to she about it . do the Minister agree that every single sepsis patient and survivor should be advise about this condition ? I absolutely do , and I pay tribute to Abbi , a beautiful woman whom I be privileged to meet after the Westminster Hall debate last week . although care after sepsis will vary hugely on a case - by - case basis , we need to make sure that the need of each individual be meet . in this case , it sound like they have not be meet . if the hon . Gentleman want to meet I to discuss this issue far , I be more than happy to do so . give that last month be Sepsis Awareness Month , will the Minister join I in pay tribute to the courage of John Snow and his family in my Dartford constituency ? tragically , he have just experience a quadruple amputation due to sepsis . he have receive amazing support from the Dartford community , who have rally around to help fund support for his family . will the Minister use that as a spur to improve treatment for sepsis more generally across the country ? I pay tribute to John Snow and , indeed , my hon . friend ' s constituent , who have rally around he at his time of need . this matter highlight the need to have well join - up care to ensure that people who have sepsis receive the good care possible , that those who tragically lose limb as a consequence of sepsis be able to have good - quality aftercare , and that we continue to raise awareness of sepsis and the risk it pose . we think that about 48 , 000 people a year lose their life to sepsis , but the truth be that we do not know , because the data be inconsistent . will the Minister look at establish a national registry to track sepsis case , so that performance can be measure , publish and improve ? give the national standard and framework that have be put in place in this regard , I hope very much that the NHS will be able to do precisely what the hon . Gentleman want it to do . yesterday be Allied Health Professions Day , which raise awareness of 14 profession , include physio , speech and language therapist , and radiographer . do the Minister agree that all the hard work of those professional be really important for patient care ? my hon . friend make a really important point . the wonderful staff we have work across health and care ensure that our constituent receive , within a very tightly constrained health service , the good possible care that we can give they . the NHS be break . we have to fix our break health service , and have good - quality staff at the heart of it be how we be go to achieve that aim . Patient Waiting Times what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of patient waiting time . wait time be wholly inadequate in our country . that be because the previous Conservative Government take a golden inheritance of the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history and leave behind the bad crisis in the NHS ' s history . what be more , they accept no responsibility and can not even bring themselves to say sorry . I pay tribute to my own family GP , Dr Islam at the East Hull family practice , who go above and beyond for his patient . however , I know that GPs be trouble by the amount of time patient have to wait to see they . the disparity between GP number in different area be utterly shocking . in Kingston upon Thames , for example , a GP look after 1 , 800 patient , but in Kingston upon Hull it be more than double that number . what be my right hon . friend do to sort out the Tory mess of the last 14 year ? may I first , through my hon . friend , say thank you to Dr Islam and to gps right across the country who , against the backdrop of the extraordinary challenge they be work through , have none the less manage to deliver more appointment now than when there be thousand more gps ? my hon . friend be right to point out that we do not have enough GPs in this country . that be why , within week of take office , this Government find just shy of £ 100 million to put into the frontline to employ 1 , 000 more gps who will be see patient before the end of this financial year . that will make a real difference , and the shadow Secretary of State should have the humility and to grace accept that . Patient waiting time be reduce dramatically through the recruitment and retention of more gps , so will the Secretary of State welcome the work of the Anglia Ruskin medical school in Essex , and perhaps have a conversation with myself and neighbouring mp about how that medical school could be expand to do much more to support the recruitment and training of more mp — more gps in Essex ? I be sure that the right hon . Lady do want more conservative mp in Essex . she have raise an entirely constructive point , which I strongly welcome . this Government be commit , as we be in opposition , to double the number of medical school place , and that mean real opportunity for local medical school such as hers . as ever , I would of course be delighted to meet she to talk about what more can do with her local university . the news that we be recruit more GPs be very welcome . I spend an afternoon shadow a local gp and see just how stretch the service be . will the Secretary of State give a commitment that we be move towards investment in primary care service and move from a national health service to a focus on neighbourhood health service ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that question . when in opposition , I be delighted to spend time with a whole group of GPs from across Sheffield who show we what primary care reform could look like . we be committed to increase primary care as a proportion of the NHS ' s budget , which will be important , and also to build exactly the kind of neighbourhood health service she describe , with more care close to people ' s home . general practice have a key role to play in that . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . what we measure be often what we end up improve , and one of the great asset of Lord Darzi ' s report be the technical annex with its 330 analysis . it be incredibly useful ; it be a baseline . will the Secretary of State make sure that it be update yearly ? that be a great constructive challenge . I be absolutely committed to transparency and to keep that dataset update in the way that the hon . Lady request . we be not go to get everything right and sometimes we be not go to make progress as fast as we would like , but where that be the case we be never go to duck it or pretend that thing be well than they be . the reason that we will succeed where the previous Government fail be that we be willing to face up to the challenge in the NHS rather than pretend that they do not exist . I call the shadow Minister . the Prime Minister have repeatedly stress the importance of prevent people from take up smoking , as one of his priority to improve the nation ' s health , reduce waiting list and lessen demand on the NHS , and we agree . the Government like to talk about the record of their first 100 day in office but , accord to datum from Action on Smoking and Health , 280 child under the age of 16 take up smoking in England each day . that is 28 , 000 child in England during the Secretary of State ' s first 100 day . why have he not yet reintroduce our Tobacco and Vapes Bill ? how many child need to take up smoking before he make this a priority ? perhaps the shadow Minister would like to give we the figure for the entire 14 year that his party be in government . by the way , just to set the record straight , not only do I propose the measure in that Bill during an interview with the Times early last year , but if it be such a priority for the Opposition , why do they leave the Bill unfinished ? why have it only have its second reading ? and why do we go into the general election with that Bill unpasse ? I will tell he why : because his party be divide on the issue , and the then Prime Minister be too weak to stand up to his own right - winger who be now call the shot in his party . the smoking Bill will be back , it will be strong and , unlike the previous Government , we will deliver it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . my constituent Mel Lycett have terminal cancer . after repeat visit to her gp , she be refer to a two - week urgent pathway in May . she be not diagnose until the end of July , and she still have not start treatment . every single target for her diagnosis and treatment be miss . that be not uncommon in Shropshire , and it be not uncommon in the rest of the country . can the Secretary of State reassure I of what he be do to deal with this terrible legacy leave behind by the Conservative Government ? how will he ensure that cancer patient be treat in a timely manner ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her role . I be afraid that this case be just one of countless story of people whose life might have be save have the NHS be there for they when they need it . it be bad enough when people receive a late diagnosis that equate to a death sentence ; it be bad still when people in that position be not give the fighting chance of urgent , life - extend treatment . the inheritance we have receive be truly shameful . I assure the hon . Lady , as a cancer survivor myself — because the NHS be there for I when I need it — that we will work tirelessly through a national cancer plan to make sure that we deliver the cancer waiting time standard that the last Labour Government meet , and that be sorely need today . Primary Care Services for Men : England and Scotland if he will make a comparative assessment of the adequacy of access to primary care service for man in ( a ) England and ( b ) Scotland . as Lord Darzi identify in his NHS review , primary care be break , with 1 , 600 few fully qualified GPs than in 2017 . we recognise that man can face particular challenge in access service , which be why we be commit to fix the front door to the NHS , bring back the family doctor and shift the focus of care away from hospital and into the community . Health be devolve in Scotland , but I welcome opportunity to share learn across our two nation . in my Paisley and Renfrewshire South constituency , the rate of premature death in man be 47 . 9 % high than the UK average . accord to National Records of Scotland , the number of people who have die by suicide in Renfrewshire as a whole have increase to the high level in 10 year . do my hon . friend agree that this be a damn indictment of the SNP Government ' s record on health ? will he commit today to hold a summit in November , with Movember , to raise man ' s health up the agenda ? those statistic be both damn and shocking . health inequality in any part of our United Kingdom need to be tackle , and the SNP Government have real question to answer on these shocking statistic for man in my hon . friend ' s constituency and across Scotland . I will take up her challenge . a summit with Movember , and with she and other interested member , to talk about man ' s health issue be a crack idea , and I will get straight on to it when I get back to the Department . I appreciate that the Secretary of State be unlikely to comment on the Chancellor ' s forthcoming statement , but he and his Front - Bench colleague have already mention funding issue a number of time this morning , so will he confirm that it be the policy of his government to take step to increase the UK ' s health spending to the average of other country in north - west Europe ? that would lead to an increase of around £ 17 billion for the national health service and would help address some of the issue refer to by the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) . order . question ought to be link to the subject be deal with , which be access to primary care . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman mean to ask , " will there also be fund to improve access to primary care ? " , which I be sure the Minister can answer . this Labour Government be elect to tackle health inequality , fix our nhs and ensure that more people live long , healthy life . that will require a concerted Government effort , which be why we have the health mission board in place . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be make the case for investment and reform at every opportunity , but let we be clear : every single Labour Government have leave the country with a well nhs than they inherit , and this Labour Government will fix our NHS once more . Whipps Cross Hospital : Redevelopment what his Department ' s timetable be for announce the outcome of its review of the new hospital programme in relation to the propose redevelopment of Whipps Cross hospital . I must declare an interest , because Whipps Cross hospital serve my constituent , as well as those of the right hon . Gentleman . on that basis , I be well aware that we desperately need the propose redevelopment of the hospital . that be why , in common with so many member across the House , I be furious that the previous Government ' s new hospital programme have a timetable that be a work of fiction and money that will run out in March . the assurance I can give to the right hon . Gentleman , his constituent , my constituent , and the constituent of every right hon . and hon . member across the House whose constituent be wait for news on the new hospital programme , be that we will deliver on a timetable that be credible and a programme that be fund , give our constituent the clarity and consistency they deserve , and rebuild by place the Government among our construction industry supply chain . the Secretary of State know that we have campaign together for the redevelopment of Whipps Cross hospital , and whether that be deliver by a Labour or Conservative Government make no difference to I . I want to drag he to the reality of a specific point about the hospital : it be grant £ 1 . 2 million towards undertake a business case , which it receive in August , but that money have run out . a total of £ 5 million be require to be ready when the decision be make ; if it be not available , the hospital will lose the architect and builder . will he go back to the Department and ensure that the hospital receive that money , so that manager can be ready with the full , detailed business case the moment the decision be make ? otherwise , it will cost £ 50 million extra over the next year to get the architect and builder back . I beg the Secretary of State — I literally beg he — to look at that carefully . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question . those practical consideration be very much part of the review . I say to the poor project manager across the country who have have to deal with the previous Government ' s stop - start approach that we be not go to make that mistake . we be go to come forward with a credible plan that be also fund , not the work of fiction or the £ 22 billion black hole that the shadow Secretary of State leave in her wake . Whipps Cross hospital be in my constituency and it be my constituent who have have to endure five year of the previous Government organise photo opportunity after photo opportunity , not put the contract in place for the project to be up and run and ready to go . do my right hon . friend agree that only a fully cost , long - term approach from this Labour Government can deliver the modern healthcare that my constituent need ? my hon . friend , my constituency neighbour , be absolutely right . he have be do an outstanding job of represent the people of Leyton and Wanstead since his arrival . what our constituent , and indeed constituent right across the country , deserve be honesty , clarity and consistency . that be how we will turn the new hospital programme from a press release into reality and how , in do so , we will restore trust in politic and , for business , the construction industry and the supply chain , restore confidence in public sector procurement . many Leicestershire resident be concerned about the Government ' s review of the new hospital programme , which would have see two new hospital , a midwifery - lead unit and a multi - storey car park in the city . what representation have the Minister make to the Chancellor to retain this vital investment for the NHS in Leicestershire ? the hon . Gentleman ask what representation I be make to retain the funding . if only that be the case . the funding be not there . the conservative party go into the general election with a programme timetable that be a work of fiction and a claim to have a fund programme that be simply not true . what we arrive to find be a timetable that be a load of rubbish and a £ 22 billion hole in the public finance that the party hide from the country because it do not want to confront the hard truth . this government be face the fact and answer the challenge . I be probably the only MP in this current Chamber who have recently use Whipps Cross hospital , which also serve my community in Walthamstow , because I have both my child there , so I know at first hand how desperately it need redevelopment and how poor the facility be that the amazing staff be have to use . do my right hon . friend agree that finally get this project move under a Labour Government will also deliver thousand of much - need home in our local community ? it be a win - win situation , which be why it be such a travesty that , for year , Conservative Ministers come and take photo , but we never see any digger or spade in the ground . do he agree that Labour can change that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this be about not just the necessary hospital project , but the growth that will come through construction , get these project up and run and , of course , the role that the NHS play as an economic anchor institution in community , as some of these project will necessarily unlock new housing site and a local transport infrastructure . we be mindful of all of that . the most important thing be that we come forward with a timetable that be credible and a programme that be fund , and that be exactly what we will do . we look forward to get the land in Chorley on that basis . District Hospitals what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of district hospital in provide service that meet the need of local community . Lord Darzi ' s report conclude that the health service be in a critical condition across the country . district hospital have a vital role to play in meet the need of their community , and this Government will support they to reduce waiting time , to improve urgent care and to play their part in build a neighbourhood health service . critical care at Furness general hospital in Barrow have be temporarily downgrade , mean that those in most need of the high level of care be now expose to potentially life - threaten delay during a 50 - mile transfer on difficult road . will the Minister please look at this worrying decision by the University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS foundation trust and do everything to enable the reopening of this service as soon as possible ? my hon . friend be a doughty fighter for her constituent . I be aware that the decision she mention be an interim measure make by the critical care network , the Lancashire and South Cumbria integrate care board and the NHS trust . the decision will be keep under review and patient impact will receive the appropriate support . the Government recognise that more must be do to improve the sustainability of the NHS both nationally and in rural and coastal area . service at Chase community hospital in my constituency , in Whitehill and Bordon , be be run down by the ICB . this be base on a promise that a brand - new health hub will be build in place , which be much welcome . it have the support of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation , which own the land , East Hampshire district council and the community , but the ICB be suffer from inertia . can the Minister speak to the ICB and suggest that it either build this new health hub or refurbishe and renovate the Chase community hospital ? I have every sympathy with the case that the hon . Gentleman have put forward . this Government want to see a shift of health service from hospital to community , from analogue to digital , and from sickness to prevention , but these decision be not take through inertia ; they be take because of the Government ' s inheritance from the conservative party . we have have 14 year of run down our health service , with needless reorganisation that have destroy and set back the progress that the last Labour Government make on the NHS . this government will fix the NHS , include in the hon . Gentleman ' s local area , but he have to recognise that the root cause of many of the problem face by member across the Chamber lie at the foot of the former Secretary of State and the last government . we have hear about the challenge face Whipps Cross hospital . the Secretary of State ' s decision to pause capital project across the country and put they under review have cause worry and uncertainty for staff in hospital nationwide . can he say when the review will be complete , so that we have certainty about when thing will go ahead ? the review will be complete when all the information have be analyse . the hon . Lady should not just be a little more patient ; she should be a little more apologetic for the fact that the Government find a hospital rebuild programme that be not worth the paper it be write on , because the ultimate paper we need — the cash — be not there . NHS dental contracting Framework what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of the NHS dental contracting framework . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the excellent work he do for the people of Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme . the scale of the problem that he point out be massive . one of the most shocking statistic I have discover since take up this position be that the most common reason for child age five to nine be admit to hospital be tooth decay . that be completely and utterly shocking — truly dickensian . we can not fix the matter overnight , but we be committed to reform the dental contract and work with the British Dental Association to focus on prevention and on the retention of NHS dentist . we be also work at pace to ensure that patient can access an additional 700 , 000 urgent dental appointment . the horror story I hear in my constituency be just awful : from the mum on the Isle of Axholme who could not find an NHS dentist after five year and who carry out her own treatment on her son , to a gentleman in Doncaster East whose tooth be crumble due to illness , cause he horrendous pain , and who can not get an appointment . the Government ' s pledge to provide more emergency appointment be great , but I know that it will take time to rebuild dentistry . can the Minister reassure I that people in my constituency will be give the priority they deserve ? my hon . friend be right . South Yorkshire have the high level of hospital tooth extraction in England , and I want to assure he that we will target intervention at the area of great need . for example , integrate care board have start to advertise role through our " golden hello " scheme , which will drive recruitment of graduate dentist to area of great need for three year . we have inherit a mess and we be work at pace to clear it up . the Minister be right to underline the issue for child , but can I remind he of the issue for those above the state pension age — which be increase to 67 , include for lady — in particular when it come to certain benefit , such as attendance allowance ? will he look at the contract for those who be elderly and in receipt of such benefit ? we be in a situation where a staggering 28 % of the country — 13 million people — have a need that be unmet by NHS dentistry . there be so many issue that we need to resolve . we be look at the contract with the BDA and I be more than happy to look into the issue raise by the hon . Gentleman . last month , the Secretary of State for Wales tell the Labour party conference that this Labour Government will " take inspiration " from Labour - run Wales on dentistry . that be the same health system in which less than 60 % of dentistry course be be complete in comparison with pre - pandemic figure — a rate that be far low than in England . do the Minister agree that the Secretary of State for Wales be right and that Wales be a blueprint for what a Labour Government will do in England , or will they drop the bluster , get serious and commit to the dental reform set out in the dental recovery plan , include a tie - in to NHS dentistry for graduate dentist ? I find it extraordinary that yet again we see a total lack of humility and contrition from the opposition . the key difference that we will see in how our United Kingdom work be that we now have some grow - up in charge in Westminster , who will work with colleague in Cardiff Bay to ensure that a rise tide lift all boat and we improve the state of NHS dentistry across the United Kingdom . access to NHS Mental Health Services what assessment he have make of the adequacy of access to NHS mental health service . what assessment he have make of the adequacy of access to NHS mental health service . our mental health service be on its knee , thank to 14 year of Tory neglect and mismanagement . a staggering 1 million people be wait to access mental health service , and vacancy rate be around 10 % , the high across the NHS . this Government be commit to fix our break nhs so that people can be confident of access high - quality mental health support when need . that include recruit 8 , 500 more mental health worker , introduce specialist mental health professional in every school , roll out Young Futures hub in every community and modernise the Mental Health Act . patient tell I they can not get access to community mental health nurse , put huge pressure on GP practice and lead to people go to A & e in desperation . can the Minister confirm whether the 8 , 500 extra mental health staff pledge in Labour ' s manifesto will include much - need nurse in the community ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who be do excellent work for the people of North Durham . I would also like to take the opportunity to thank our mental health nurse , who do such vital and valuable work . the Government be commit to shift from hospital to community , and that of course include the mental health sector . I can assure my hon . friend that we be work with NHS England on how good to deploy those additional 8 , 500 mental health worker . I wish to pay my respect to the family of Jamie Pearson , the 27 - year - old Blackpool man who sadly take his own life in a local hospital in August after wait nearly 24 hour to see a mental health worker in A & E . Jamie be in a mental health crisis , but get himself to what should have be a place of safety . what step be the Minister ' s Department take to ensure that no one be leave to suffer in A & E because they can not access mental health treatment in their community , and will he meet I to discuss that tragic issue , so that we can make sure that it never happen again ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that deeply tragic case . word can not express the heartbreak cause to Jamie Pearson ' s friend and family . I hope it might be some small comfort to they to know that all acute hospital should now have a 24 / 7 mental health liaison service in A & E , and we be look at how good to take forward the Government ' s suicide prevention strategy for England . we will do everything in our power to ensure that the tragic circumstance of Jamie ' s untimely death be address , and that lesson be learn . I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that far . those provide child and adolescent mental health service in south Cumbria do an outstanding job , but they be without a dedicated crisis team , unlike the rest of Lancashire and South Cumbria NHS Foundation Trust . that be devastating and dangerous for my constituent . will the Minister use his power to intervene with the integrate care board and Lancashire and South Cumbria to make sure that young people in our community have access to a crisis team ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question and the passion with which he put it . we be commit to roll out Young Futures hub across the country and , of course , we need to prioritise area of particular need . I would be happy to meet he to discuss that far . a recent review of child ' s mental health service in my local authority , the London borough of Richmond , find that , staggeringly , child with mild to moderate need in tier 2 wait on average 15 month before receive treatment , and those with more severe need wait on average nine month . the Minister do not need I to tell he that during that time , child ' s condition get bad ; they need great treatment and , sadly , too many present at A & E self - harm and attempt to take their own life . as well as commit to mental health professional in every school , will he put some money into acute provision , so that child do not end up in A & E ? we be absolutely committed to the three shift : from hospital to community , from sickness to prevention and from analogue to digital . the sickness to prevention aspect be important in the question that the hon . member raise . treatable mental health condition such as anxiety and depression should be identify early to prevent they from develop into something more serious and into a crisis , so I absolutely share the sentiment behind her question . they will be at the heart of our 10 - year strategy for the future of our health . access to Primary Care what step his Department be take to improve access to GP appointment . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of patient access to primary care service . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of patient access to primary care service . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of patient access to primary care service . as identify in Lord Darzi ' s review , primary care be break . satisfaction with GP service have fall from a peak of 80 % in 2009 to just 35 % last year — a truly damn indictment of 14 year of Tory failure . we will rebuild general practice . we have invest £ 82 million to recruit 1 , 000 new GPs , we have launch our red tape challenge , and we be commit to improve continuity of care and end the 8 am scramble . on primary care more broadly , we be commit to boost the role of community pharmacy , enable patient to be treat for certain condition by their local pharmacist , without the need to see a gp . the Arborfield Green community in my Wokingham constituency have around 10 , 000 resident in new home , with many more to come , but there be no local primary care provision . to see a gp , resident must travel to neighbouring village , which be often inaccessible because of a lack of public transport . what step will the Minister take to guarantee that there will be enough GPs in any major new development that come down the line ? the hon . member be absolutely right : there be seriously under - doctored area of the country . give the finite resource that we have , we must focus on area with the great need . I would be more than happy to meet he to discuss how that might well be reflect in his constituency . access to GP appointment be consistently raise with I in Cumbernauld . a number of constituent have inform I that , have make complaint , they have be remove from the list of the general practice at which they have be patient for many year . will the Minister raise the matter with the Scottish Government ' s Cabinet Secretary for Health and Social Care , so that we can get some resolution for my constituent ? patient have an absolute right to complain about NHS service , and they should not be remove from a practice ' s list because of a complaint they have make . health be of course devolve , but I have ask official in the Department to engage with their Scottish Government counterpart on that matter to ensure that patient in my hon . friend ' s constituency be treat with the respect and compassion that they deserve . resident in Mickleover have be queue from 7 be to get an appointment with their gp , and Healthwatch say that seven in 10 people in Derby find it very difficult to book appointment . that be the legacy of the previous Government . with new home be build in and around Mickleover , we need even more additional capacity . do the Minister agree that GP capacity must be a priority ? we be absolutely committed to the challenge of cut red tape and reduce the administrative burden for staff to help patient get the care that they need . an important element of our plan will be streamline access to registration in order to move it online , and we be work at pace to make online registration available in all practice . I be very happy to come back to my hon . friend on the constituency issue that she raise . Lord Darzi ' s report on the NHS state that people be struggle to see their gps . prevention be well than cure , and intervention to protect health tend to be far less costly than deal with the consequence of illness , both financially and in term of outcome . early and quick access to primary care be therefore crucial . I accept that it be not always necessary to see a gp — an appointment with a nurse may suffice — but what step be be take to ensure that patient in my Wolverhampton West constituency have quick , easy and direct access to GP surgery ? I note that Wolverhampton West have see a decrease of 28 full - time equivalent GPs since 2018 , which of course massively exacerbate the issue to which my hon . friend refer . we will introduce a modern booking system to end the 8 am scramble and make it easy for patient to contact their gp . in particular , we be committed to increase the use of the NHS app to view patient record and order repeat prescription . all of that will take pressure off the booking system . last week , NHS Suffolk and North East Essex integrate care board announce plan to scrap the super - surgery in north Essex . to say that my constituent be incandescent would be an understatement ; many of they have wait since 2021 for a replacement to close surgery in Bramford , Claydon and Great Blakenham . many have to use Needham Market surgery , which be also await plan to move to large premise with increase capacity . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can expedite plan to expand primary care in north Ipswich and the surround village ? I thank the hon . gentleman for set out a list of all the failure of the past 14 year . he be deal with that mess thank to member on the Benches he sit on . I strongly encourage his constituent to get actively involve in the 10 - year plan that we will launch . there will be an important national engagement exercise on shift from hospital to community , from sickness to prevention and from analogue to digital , because give the total and utter chaos that we inherit , we need systemic reform . I recently meet representative of Martins Oak and Oldwood surgery in my constituency . both surgery have ambitious plan to move to big premise so that they can see more patient , but they face numerous challenge , include the gap between the lease length that the integrate care board will support and those that GP practice can get developer to sign up to . there be other challenge that I be sure the Minister can help unpick , so will he meet I to see whether we can help bring those ambitious plan for new surgery to fruition ? the hon . Gentleman have considerable expertise in this area , give his background . I would be happy to discuss that issue with he , but I remind he that although there may well be specific issue , there be a generic problem : the total and utter failure to ensure investment , reform and strategic thinking about our system . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . today , I be publish the full finding of Dr Penny Dash ' s review of the Care Quality Commission . her interim report make it clear that the CQC be not fit for purpose , with few inspection be carry out , urgent follow - up be neglect and patient safety be put at risk . today , she make seven recommendation for improvement , and I have make sure that the CQC have begin urgently put they into practice . we be also publish a review of the CQC ' s deeply flawed single assessment framework today . Sir Julian Hartley will shortly begin as its new chief executive , with my full support . my constituent Mark have be unable to find an NHS dentist for his 19 - month - old child , even at the seventh time of try . my right hon . friend well understand the crisis he have inherit . will he meet I to discuss the shortage of dentistry in Stockton North and across Teesside ? I be sorry for my hon . friend ' s constituent , and so many other who be deal with the consequence of the Conservatives ' failure on dentistry . I would be delighted to meet he to discuss the challenge in his area . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I congratulate all nominee and winner in the NHS parliamentary award yesterday . their success be richly deserve , and the award be a very good example of the House come together to celebrate those who work so hard in our health service and social care service . in the past five week , I have ask the Secretary of State 29 question at this Dispatch Box , yet he have manage to answer only one . for the rest , he have try to bluster his way out of his policy decision , as we have see this morning . let we try again . when will be the first week in which we see delivery of his promise 40 , 000 more appointment ? after the performance I have to put up with when the right hon . Lady be at the Government Dispatch Box , she have some brass neck complain at the Opposition Dispatch Box that I be not answer her question . she will know that we be work at pace to stand up 40 , 000 more appointment every week as our first step , as promise in our manifesto , and we will deliver . More than that , we will go into the next election with a record of which the right hon . Lady can only dream . after 14 year of opposition — two and a half of which the Secretary of State spend on the Front Bench and travel around the world , fund by other government , to look at their healthcare system — and more than 100 day in government , the right hon . Gentleman do not even know the start date of his own flagship policy . he be no Action Man ; he be Anchorman . let we deal with Labour ' s cruel decision to slash winter fuel payment , which will add pressure not only to patient , but to the NHS . the NHS ' s deputy chief operating officer — order . I have get a lot of people to get in . member on both Front Benches must be quick . after Labour ' s cruel decision to slash winter fuel payment , which will add pressure to the NHS , its deputy chief operating officer warn that this winter our health service will not have the extra capacity or funding that it need , which the Conservatives have previously provide . why have the Secretary of State — Order . I give the right hon . Lady a hint to come to an end and not to carry on fully . it be unfair to Back Benchers , who I be try to represent . I want a short answer . the shadow Secretary of State question the budget for this winter , but it be set by her Government . be that finally an admission of failure on her part ? something else that we will have this winter , which we do not have last winter or the previous winter be no — I call Lola McEvoy . will the Secretaryof State meet I to discuss a cross - departmental pilot in my constituency , bring together the Department for Work and Pensions , the Department for Education and the Department of Health and Social Care , to tackle some of the immediate pressure that face child and adolescent mental health service in my area , and the impact on schooling , the local work force and family outcome ? by cut mental health waiting list and intervene early , we can get this country back to health and back to work . there be 2 . 9 million people who be economically inactive , a large proportion owe to mental health issue . many people can be help back into work through talk therapy . we will put a mental health professional in every school and roll out 8 , 500 specialist . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the matter far . I call the Liberal Democrat Health spokesperson . in England , 4 . 4 million child have not see a dentist for at least a year . meanwhile , in Shropshire , Telford and Wrekin integrate health board , £ 1 million of dental funding go unspent in 2022 - 23 . the system be clearly break . when can we expect the Secretary of State to fix it ? it be precisely because of the situation the hon . member describe — the poor service and , ironically , the underspend in the dentistry budget — that we will work not only to stand up the 700 , 000 urgent and emergency dental appointment we promise , but to do the prevention work for child in our school . many people in my constituency be grateful that Slough will soon be home to a £ 25 million community diagnostic centre , which will help to reduce waiting list , but many be also concerned that the local trust may be contract out service for MRI scan . do the Minister agree that , instead of just outsourcing , local trust should , whenever possible , try to increase expertise and capacity in - house ? we be committed to expand community diagnostic capacity to build an nhs that be fit for the future . however , we be clear that independent sector provider have a role to play in support the NHS as trust partner to recover elective service . I welcome all effort to increase the number of GPs throughout England . resident in new and grow town such as Wixams in Mid Bedfordshire need a gp surgery . my local council have be tell that they need to put up the capital to deliver one , cause concern about cash flow and borrowing cost . will the Minister meet I to discuss a new capital investment programme to ensure that resident in new town such as Wixams do not have to wait for developer contribution to get the service they need ? as Lord Darzi outline , capital development in the NHS be shocking , with a backlog of £ 11 billion in maintenance . I would be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss his problem . Alan Petersen be a senior pharmacist in my constituency . he tell I that pharmacy have experience high volatility in drug pricing and big increase in bill in recent year . at the same time , they be expect to do far more in direct consultation with the public . give the UK Government ' s jurisdiction over fund dispense service in England and Wales , when do they plan to review pharmacy funding ? obviously , health be a devolved matter and fund for pharmacy in Wales be the responsibility of the Welsh Government . nevertheless , I pay tribute to the Welsh Government for secure a deal with pharmacy in Wales in line with DDRB — the review body on doctor ' and dentist ' remuneration — pay recommendation . I know that arrangement in England affect matter in Wales and I be work as a matter of urgency to conclude the consultation on the community pharmacy contractual framework . to correct the Secretary of State , the Tobacco and Vapes Bill go through its Committee stage in the previous Parliament , with several amendment propose across the Chamber , which the then Minister , Andrea Leadsom , agree to take away and bring back . will he incorporate those amendment so that we strengthen the Bill ? whatever stage the Bill get to , it be not complete , be it ? we will bring back a tobacco and vape Bill that be strong than the Conservatives ' and I look forward to see if they support it . Ingleside , the only birth centre in the city of Salford , be temporarily close in 2022 amid an acute midwifery staffing deficit across Greater Manchester . will the Minister be kind enough to meet I to discuss what he can do to ensure that that unit reopen safely as soon as possible ? my hon . friend be right to raise the crisis of midwifery service . we have already have debate in Westminster Hall about this , and the issue affect the entire country . it be a priority for this Government , and I be of course happy to meet she to discuss her constituency issue . Lord Darzi ' s report highlight the importance of local focus and alignment to co - ordinating local service and improve health , contribute to reduce hospital admission . in Oxfordshire , the integrated care board be propose to remove Oxfordshire ' s dedicated place director . will the Secretary of State give his support to place - base role to maintain local authority alignment , as recommend in Lord Darzi ' s report ? I absolutely take the point the hon . Gentleman be make about the importance of place - base leadership . that be why one thing we will be look to do , as part of the 10 - year plan process , be to clarify role and responsibility in different part of the system to ensure that we have well strategic place - base leadership . the Royal Stoke hospital be lead the way when it come to treatment for stroke patient , but as with so many illness , prevention be well than cure . can the Minister set out what this government be do to minimise the number of people affect by these life - alter event ? I agree with my hon . friend , which be why we have set a goal for few life be lose to cardiovascular disease . we will make it easy for people to have check in the comfort of their own home through , for example , the digital NHS health check and the new workplace trial . labour ' s cut to the winter fuel payment will cause 262 , 000 cold pensioner to seek nhs treatment , accord to the end Fuel Poverty Coalition . do the Government agree with those figure , and if not , what be their own estimate ? the decision on the winter fuel allowance be not one that the Government take lightly , but we inherit a £ 22 billion hole in the nation ' s finance . we continue to stand behind vulnerable household by increase the state pension with the triple lock , deliver the warm home discount and extend the household support fund to support the most vulnerable pensioner . prevention be the most important intervention to improve health outcome , yet since 2015 the public health grant have fall in value by 25 % , and by 30 % in York . will the Minister say what he be do to restore the value of the public health grant ? my hon . friend be incredibly knowledgeable about public health matter both at national and local level . Lord Darzi ' s investigation into the NHS set out the impact of past reduction in local government public health funding . we will confirm public health grant allocation for the next financial year as part of the forthcoming spending review , but the point she make have be make loudly and clearly . can the Secretary of State update the House on the status of Alan Milburn ? do he still attend meeting in the Department and have access to confidential information ? do he now have an official role in the Department ? do he still have private sector interest in the healthcare sector ? the right hon . Alan Milburn be alive , he be safe and we be treat he well . October be Breast Cancer Awareness Month , and I stand here today as someone who be diagnose , treat and cure of breast cancer this year by the amazing staff in the north - east , but not enough woman be take up their breast screening appointment . will the Minister do more to raise awareness of , and access to , breast screening appointment , and may I urge all woman to check themselves regularly ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her work in this area and for set out eloquently her own personal experience . of course this Government will do more to raise awareness and enable more woman to access breast screening service . a significant impediment to improve adult social care be the split of budget and responsibility and policy between the Secretary of State ' s Department and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . will he and colleague work to remove that hurdle , to have well outcome more cost - effectively deliver to improve the life of all our constituent ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise that risk . I assure he and the House that I and the Deputy Prime Minister , herself a former care worker , be work in lockstep to align strategy , policy and delivery . Gaza and Lebanon 12 . 40 pm ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Foreign Secretary to make a statement on the situation in Gaza and Lebanon . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) for raise this important question . we be deeply concerned about the continue violence ; we must avoid this conflict spiral far out of control and into a wide regional war , which be in no one ' s interest . the UK be the first G7 nation to call for an immediate ceasefire between lebanese Hezbollah and Israel and for the implementation of a political plan that will enable civilian on both side to return to their home . the Prime Minister have speak with international leader include Prime Minister Netanyahu , King Abdullah of Jordan , President Macron and Chancellor Scholz to press the case for a ceasefire . this build on extensive discussion by the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister at the United Nations with regional leader . we be gravely concern to hear that five UN peacekeeper have be injure by the Israel Defence Forces . we reiterate that attack on UN peacekeeper and UN member of staff be unacceptable . all party must take all necessary measure to protect all UN personnel and premise and allow the UN to fulfil its mandate . the UK co - sign a joint statement by 34 United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon - contribute country condemn recent attack , call for such action to stop immediately and be adequately investigate . the situation in Lebanon be worsen by the day . civilian casualty be mount and more than 25 % of the lebanese population have be displace . on humanitarian need in Lebanon , I announce £ 10 million of support to Lebanon to respond to the widespread lack of shelter and reduce access to water , hygiene and healthcare . this be in addition to the £ 5 million that we have already provide to unicef . it be clear that a political solution consistent with resolution 1701 be the only way to restore the sovereignty , territorial integrity and stability of Lebanon . this require an immediate ceasefire between lebanese Hezbollah and Israel now and immediate negotiation to re - establish security and stability for the people live on either side of the israeli - Lebanon border . while the world turn its attention to Lebanon , we must not forget the situation for the people of Gaza : they be in a truly intolerable situation currently and winter will make they increasingly vulnerable include to communicable disease . all of Gaza ' s population now face the risk of famine . access to basic service , safe drinking water , shelter and healthcare be become hard by the day . we be gravely concern by the situation in northern Gaza in particular . very little aid have enter northern Gaza since 1 October . evacuation order continue to be issue across northern Gaza but civilian be struggle to move to safety and we be worried that the IDF - designate humanitarian zone be overcrowded and unsafe . Israel must comply with international humanitarian law and allow unfettered aid access . the message from this Government be clear : Israel could and must do more to ensure that aid reach civilian in Gaza . it be unacceptable to restrict aid . we have not lose sight of the destabilising role of Iran across the middle east through its support to militia include Hezbollah , Hamas and the Houthis . Iran must halt its attack on Israel . to that end , we have place a number of sanction designation , and I welcome the question . order . the response should be for three minute . please can we try to stick to that ? I call Andy McDonald , who will give we a fine example of a two - minute speech . I thank the Minister . as Israel cut off northern Gaza from essential supply , it continue to strike palestinian civilian while demand their displacement . the attack , such as those on the al - Aqsa hospital in central Gaza on Sunday night , show that there be nowhere safe to go . the sight of a patient on an iv drip burn to death in the flame of an airstrike on the tent of refugee will be the abide image of this genocide . the 400 , 000 or so civilian leave without food or supply in northern Gaza be increasingly subject to airstrike , artillery and small arm fire from israeli force . some 11 , 500 child have be kill in Gaza in a year : that be one classroom full of child every day for a single year . in Lebanon , we see israeli strike kill civilian , and now we hear that , in addition to invasion of UNIFIL post — United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon position — there be report of attack on UNIFIL force of a chemical nature . on UNIFIL , I acknowledge the Foreign Secretary ' s call to Israel and all party to uphold their obligation , but repeatedly call on Israel to uphold its obligation have no impact . unless force to change , Israel will continue to commit further outrage and breach of international law in Lebanon and the west bank and continue its starvation and target of civilian in Gaza . even Lord Cameron have today talk about individual sanction for far - right israeli Ministers . will the Foreign Secretary consider those and other measure ? a partial arm embargo have not stop the attack on civilian either . surely that have to be extend . the Government tell I in a write answer : " the US Government manage the sale of F - 35 aircraft to Israel and the F - 35 Global Supply Chain . " in the interest of protect civilian in Gaza , I ask the Government to open discussion with the US to remove Israel from the end - use destination of the F - 35 global supply chain . there be many partner for peace in the region whose effort be reject by Israel , but the UK have an important role to play . give that recognition of Palestine be a prerequisite for peace , and not a by - product of it , be it not now time to join the global majority in do so ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the number of important point that he make . first , he refer to footage that have be circulate widely . it be one of many instance of very disturbing footage that many of we and many of our constituent will have see . of course , the Government look very closely at all those report , and we be concern by all report . we will continue to take very seriously our responsibility when it come to conduct international humanitarian law assessment in that case or any other such case . my hon . Friend also mention the UK Government ' s position on UNIFIL . the UK Government could not have be clear on that . we be appal to hear that UN peacekeeper have be injure by israeli fire . alongside international ally and partner , we condemn the attack on UN peacekeeper . I think that be crystal clear . my hon . Friend also refer to palestinian statehood and recognition . the UK be work with partner to support a path to long - term peace and stability with a two - state solution at its heart . that mean a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state . we want to be clear : palestinian statehood be the right of the palestinian people ; it be not in the gift of any neighbour , and it be essential to the long - term security of Israel . I call the shadow Minister . Palestinians face a devastating humanitarian crisis . the UK must continue to play a lead role in alleviate that suffering . there be still hostage in Gaza , include the british citizen Emily Damari . can the Minister update the House on effort to secure her release and the release of other hostage who be in such awful jeopardy ? the previous Government treble our Gaza aid commitment and facilitated aid flow by land , sea , and air . will the Minister confirm that those effort continue ? can the Minister give we an update on the implementation of the Colonna recommendation on the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ? turn to Lebanon , british national be urge to follow the UK travel advice . clearly , resolution 1701 have not be implement . Hezbollah have mobilise south of the Litani river and fire thousand of rocket into northern Israel . what step be the Government take with the UN to secure implementation of UN Security Council resolution 1701 and get Hezbollah to pull back ? just as aid worker be not a target , UN peacekeeper can not be a target . do the Minister agree with Israel ' s assessment that Hezbollah have build thousand of tunnel shafts next to the chapter 6 UNIFIL peacekeeper ? have that put their mission in such grave danger that the UN must now review its mandate ? this be a grave situation . there be no equivalence between Iran ' s terrorist proxy , Hezbollah and Hamas , and the state of Israel . Israel have a right to defend itself against an existential threat . but too many innocent civilian be lose their life or see their life irreparably change . the UK must continue to support they with humanitarian aid . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the many important point she make . first , she comment on the humanitarian situation in Gaza . clearly , we currently see a truly desperate and appalling situation for many people in Gaza . More than 90 % of the population have now be displace , and many people have be displace numerous time , with some even have be force to move 10 time . as I mention in my response to the urgent question , all of Gaza ' s population now face the risk of famine , as well as many other challenge around water , sanitation and the spread of communicable disease , and of course , as I say , winter be approach . this really be a very concern time . the hon . Lady talk about the situation in relation to hostage . I can confirm that the Foreign Secretary have meet or speak to all the family of UK and UK - link hostage who have be cruelly detain by Hamas , and he have hear at first hand the suffering that those family have endure . the Prime Minister also meet the family of UK hostage in London on 11 and 14 September , and he have host they at no . 10 . we continue to raise the case of UK and UK - link hostage at every single opportunity . the hon . Lady talk about the need to ensure that aid be reach Gaza and that the UK play its part . this Government take that responsibility very seriously indeed . as the new Development Minister , I be concern to ensure that I see the delivery of the aid that the new UK Government have commit to , and that include visit Jordan so that I could see the situation on the ground for myself . clearly , however , it have get more challenging since then . none the less , we will continue to work to ensure that much - need aid be receive . that work have include , for example , an announcement of additional support to UK - Med , as well as to UNICEF , and a joint UK - Kuwait approach to funding to help unicef to deliver lifesave aid to almost 2 . 5 million people in Gaza and in Yemen . the hon . Lady talk about the situation in Lebanon . the UK Government ' s position on this be clear : any UK citizen must leave Lebanon immediately . clear advice about that be now available , and have be for some time , on the fcdo website . finally , the hon . Lady talk about resolution 1701 on Lebanon . we be clear that a political solution consistent with resolution 1701 be the only way to restore the sovereignty , territorial integrity and stability of Lebanon , and to restore security and stability for the people live on either side of the Israel - Lebanon border . we will continue to support it and to advocate for it . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . my right hon . friend speak with great eloquence about how completely wrong it be for UN peacekeeper to be attack in the way that they have be . they put their body on the line , keep war party apart , and they be able to maintain peace — a rough peace — on the blue line for nearly 18 year before the conflict begin . be it possible for we to go far than just condemn it ? give that there be 10 , 000 unifil peacekeeper from 50 country and that the full complement ought to be 15 , 000 — Italy provide 1 , 000 , France and Spain provide over 600 , Ireland provide nearly 400 and Germany provide more than 100 , while we provide one — might it be possible for the Government to reconsider the number of peacekeeper who be send to UNIFIL , and whether Britain could make a big contribution ? I welcome my right hon . friend to her rightful place as Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . she be right that unifil ' s role be absolutely crucial . it be already incredibly important in southern Lebanon , of course , but it be now even more important give the escalate situation in the region . the UK fully support unifil ' s work . we of course keep our support for all UN agency continuously under review , and that apply to UNIFIL as well . I have realise that I fail to respond to the question from the shadow Minister about the Colonna report in relation to another UN agency , UNRWA . to be clear , the UK have engage substantively on the recommendation from the Colonna report — I have do so myself with both Commissioner - General Lazzarini and his deputy — and we continue to work on they , include by provide financial support towards implement the report . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . no one can be leave unmove by the level of human suffering we have see recently on our screen . we need immediate ceasefire in Gaza and Lebanon more than ever . liberal Democrats be appal to learn of the unjustifiable attack on UN peacekeeper in Lebanon by the Israel Defence Forces . Israel must stop these attack and comply with international humanitarian law . the mass displacement order issue by the IDF to 400 , 000 Palestinians in northern Gaza , and the ongoing bombing , place the population at grave risk . the international community must press for their protection . will the Minister commit to increase the supply of aid to the region ? UK aid to Lebanon have be cut by 90 % since 2019 . do the Minister agree that now be the time to use our sanction regime against the extremist Ministers , Ben - Gvir and Smotrich ? follow the Government ' s new sanction on Iran announce yesterday , will they go far and now proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise those very important matter . we be obviously of the same mind when it come to the condemnation of attack on UNIFIL , as I set out a few moment ago , and also in term of concern about the humanitarian situation in both Gaza and Lebanon . I discuss in detail with the lebanese ambassador to the UK the need to ensure that there be not only pre - positioned aid but support for child in particular . I be sure that many member will be aware that the public school of a number of the child who have be displace in Lebanon have be , understandably , turn into shelter , which of course mean that the child be unable to learn . that be alongside the impact on those displace . hence , we have ensure that as a new Government we have provide additional support , as I set out in my remark early . we believe it be important to provide that additional support . the hon . Gentleman also talk about those who have express view that be inflammatory or even bad than that — remark that be appallingly discriminatory . the UK Government have be wholehearte in their condemnation of those remark . the hon . Gentleman ask specifically about sanction . of course , the UK will always keep our sanction regime closely under review , as he would expect , and we will announce any change to the House . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . it feel a pathetic understatement to say that the situation in Gaza , particularly northern Gaza , grow ever more desperate and urgent — particularly as I have be say that for a year . the UN say that it have not be allow to deliver essential supply , include food , since October . last week , 15 UK and irish humanitarian organisation warn that the UK be fail to uphold international law and that , without bold and immediate action from the UK , Palestinians in northern Gaza be face an imminent existential threat . please , Minister , give we more detail on exactly what this Government be do to make sure that the retired general ' " surrender or starve " strategy be not be implement . we need to do more than just debate in this Chamber . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her remark , and congratulate she on her leadership of the International Development Committee . this Government have show that we be absolutely determined to play our part with UK leadership on these issue , which be of such desperate concern to our constituent and , of course , to the whole world . that have mean there have be serious engagement at every level , include in the first day of the new Government come into office . there have be engagement at the high level from the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and I — right across Government — with our counterpart , whether they be the Palestinian Authority , the lebanese Government , the israeli Government , other regional actor or the US . more broadly , we be determined to ensure that the cease - fire that be so desperately need be put into place and that we play our part in face up to the humanitarian crisis that we see unfold . even if you care little for the ten of thousand of dead Arabs and the million displace ; even if you could not give a damn for the child shoot in the head or the burn hospital inmate in northern Gaza ; if your only concern be the security of Israel , can the Minister see any argument why yet another massacre of Gazans will enhance that security in the future ? if she can not , when will the Government stop wring their hand at this conflict and take positive , active step to enforce international law and bring about a ceasefire ? I could not disagree more with the right hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of the UK Government ' s approach . I mention a few moment ago the engagement that have take place , but I want to be crystal clear that the new UK Government have always support international humanitarian law . that be why we have be clear from the first moment of enter office that we support the mandate of the International Criminal Court and the International Court of Justice . we review arm export licence — something that the previous Government have not do — because we believe that be a legal imperative . we will continue to take action to show that UK leadership , which the UK population and those globally be look to our country to deliver . rise — order . load of Members be stand , and this urgent question will run until around 1 . 50 pm . with short question and short answer , we will hopefully get everyone in . as a good example , I call Naz Shah . the UN Independent International Commission of Inquiry on the occupied palestinian Territory , include East Jerusalem and Israel , have say : " Israel have perpetrate a concerted policy to destroy Gaza ' s healthcare system as part of a broad assault on Gaza , commit war crime and the crime against humanity of extermination with relentless and deliberate attack on medical personnel and facility " . the United Nations do not make those claim lightly . have those assessment also be make by our Government ' s legal team ? in the light of that , what further action be be take to protect international law , life itself in Gaza , and human right ? that be not quite the example . my hon . Friend mention the critical issue of healthcare in Gaza , which have be of considerable concern to the UK Government . that be why we announce £ 5 . 5 million of new medical aid to UK - Med to operate its field hospital in Gaza . I meet UK - Med representative to understand more about its response and to ensure that we be play our part . it be also why we have help unicef to support vulnerable family in Gaza with water , healthcare and specialist treatment . we take our responsibility to international humanitarian law very seriously , ensure that we conduct the assessment that be need legally . Mohamed be a consultant NHS surgeon — in fact , he be mine when I be in hospital with sepsis just a few month ago . his parent be in the Jabalia refugee camp . they be elderly . his father have no colon , and his mother have diabete . they can not move , and there be nowhere safe for they to move . if they try to move , he tell I that everything be be shoot by drone and body be strew in the street . will the Minister impress upon the israeli Government that Mohamed ' s parent , the sick , the elderly and those who have stay to care for they be not legitimate target of war , no matter how many time they might have be tell to move ? furthermore , if arrest warrant be issue for Netanyahu , as have be trail , will this Government support it ? order . this be a very important issue and I really want to get everybody in , but you be go to have to help each other . I do not want people to miss out . we be very much aware that more than 85 % of Gaza be under evacuation order . that be cause chronic overcrowding , with people desperately seek shelter . last month , the number of humanitarian truck that enter Gaza be the low since the start of the year . the hon . Lady ask about our message to Israel and the representation that we have make : we call on Israel to take all possible step to avoid civilian casualty , to allow unfettered aid into Gaza through all land route , to respect the UN ' s mandate and to allow the UN and its humanitarian partner to operate effectively — particularly in relation to the most vulnerable , as she rightly mention . in the past few day alone , Israel have burn people alive by bomb a tent camp at a hospital , kill child by bomb a school and fire on UN peacekeeper . we have have a year of this . as a palestinian lawyer tell I , Britain know exactly what to do , because it rightly do it against Russia after its illegal invasion of Ukraine : impose sanction on arm , trade and official . that be how to get Israel to stop do what it be do . when will Israel be hold to the same standard for its war crime and violation of international law ? it be very important that the UK take its responsibility seriously . the hon . member talk about some of the report that we have see — the UK Government be look very closely at they and we be determined to ensure that we play our part in ensure that international law be uphold . he talk about sanction policy ; as I mention before , we will always keep that under review , but he should be aware that the UK have already sanction eight people responsible for perpetrate and incite human right abuse against palestinian community in the west bank . we will continue to keep these issue under review . do bomb a hospital and have patient on IV drip burn to death in their bed constitute a war crime ? as I mention , the UK Government be look carefully at all report . there have be considerable footage that be extremely disturbing — not just the footage that many of we have see , to which the hon . Gentleman refer , but other type as well . it be very important that the UK Government look at they carefully and make proper assessment . there be a legal regime for do that , and this UK Government take those legal responsibility seriously because we know the impact that they can have . do the Minister agree that we urgently need a ceasefire in both Lebanon and Gaza , but also , with the grotesque level of civilian death , we need international law to be observe and breach of it investigate properly ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that point . let I underline again that the UK Government want an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage still cruelly detain by Hamas and much more aid to enter Gaza . the death and destruction in Gaza be intolerable , and the UK Government be the first Government in the G7 to call for a ceasefire in Lebanon . it be critical that international humanitarian law be uphold , and we take that responsibility very seriously . some 60 , 000 people be displace in northern Israel , which lead to the attack in Lebanon target Hezbollah . when Israel respond to Iran ' s attack , will we say that Israel should cease fire ? if so , why be we not talk to further regional partner to de - escalate from Iran ' s provocation in Gaza , Lebanon and directly ? the new Government be undertake that engagement continuously with country in the region and beyond . we have a responsibility to be a voice for de - escalation and an active partner push seriously for that de - escalation . as the Minister outline , the humanitarian situation in northern Gaza be so dire that unconventional mean of get aid into it might need to be consider . what conversation be she be have with colleague about airdrop aid into northern Gaza to ease the humanitarian situation there ? my hon . friend raise an important issue . I discuss these matter in detail when I be in Jordan , as well as with a number of humanitarian organisation that be active on the ground and in my meeting with UNRWA . there be challenge to deliver aid through airdrop — they be not as well targeted and can cause additional problem . it be important that land route — the most effective way of get aid into Gaza — be enable . we need more truck to get into Gaza and more access for people to get that aid . it be unacceptable where there be restriction on aid . we all recognise the horrendous scale of the civilian casualty in the region . do the Minister agree that the Government need to try and unite international opinion to get the remain hostage release and deal with the terrorist threat from those who want to annihilate all Israelis ? the Government have be seek precisely to work globally and with country in the region to de - escalate to ensure that civilian be protect . the UK Government recognise that Israel have the right to defend itself , but we must see a future where , ultimately , we have a two - state solution . most immediately , we must see a ceasefire in both Gaza and Lebanon . while the situation in Gaza be beyond devastating , there have be over 1 , 400 settler attack in the west bank . the Minister say she be keep sanction under review . what will it take to impose sanction on settler and on the settler organisation fund settler to carry out these atrocious attack ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that issue . the UK Government ' s position could not be clear : settlement be illegal under international law . they present an obstacle to peace and threaten the physical viability of a two - state solution . during his visit in July , the Foreign Secretary meet Palestinians displace in the west bank . he be horrified to hear of the act of violence that have be carry out by settler . the UK Government have strongly condemn settler violence and inciteful remark , as we talk about before , and we urge Israel to take great action to hold violent settler to account and clamp down on those who seek to inflame tension . the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon have fail to prevent Hezbollah ' s rearmament in southern Lebanon since 2006 , sit idly by while they amass 150 , 000 missile with support from Iran . those missile be now be use on israeli community , with UNIFIL and lebanese civilian be use as human shield by the terror group . what discussion have the Minister have with her israeli counterpart to counter that threat ? we talk about Hezbollah ' s approach . the United Kingdom Government have be absolutely resolute in condemn Hezbollah ' s attack on Israel over the past 11 month , which have drive more than 60 , 000 people from their home . those unjustified attack have bring misery to ordinary people in Lebanon and Israel . we have repeatedly urge lebanese Hezbollah to engage with the US - lead discussion to resolve their disagreement diplomatically . we have make those point to every country in the region that the hon . Gentleman would expect . let we be absolutely clear in this House : the seriousness of Israel ' s violation of international law , as evidence by countless international organisation , could not be more obvious , but the total lack of accountability have lead to the international rule - base order collapse around we as we watch child starve and teenager burn to death in israeli airstrike on hospital compound . the international community must now end the empty word . we need concrete step , Minister . will she today immediately announce an end to the arm sale , and immediately announce apply sanction for the war crime and breach of international law ? the UK Government have be absolutely clear . Israel must act in accordance with international humanitarian law and must take all possible step to avoid civilian casualty . we continue to urge Israel to fulfil its promise to flood Gaza with aid , and we urge Israel to permit immediate and unfettered access for the International Committee of the Red Cross to detention centre . the Foreign Secretary and other Ministers will continue to raise these issue with the israeli Government . my hon . friend must surely be aware that , follow a review of Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law in respect of its activity in Gaza , the Government suspend around 30 export licence to Israel . we all want the killing to stop , we abhor the death , and we all want a ceasefire as soon as possible , but clearly the fast way to a ceasefire be for Hamas to return the hostage , and for Hamas and Hezbollah to stop attack Israel with missile . that be the fast way to a ceasefire . the western nation have fail to convince those proscribe terror organisation — this House appear to have forget about that — to stop make these attack . Israel have conclude , therefore , that the fast way to defend itself and ensure the safety of the region be to destroy Hamas and destroy Hezbollah . I have to say that I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation , certainly of the UK Government ' s leadership on these issue . the UK Government have be absolutely clear that we must see an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage , a flood of aid into Gaza , and , ultimately , the two - state solution that the people of Israel and Palestinians so rightly deserve . the situation in Gaza go way beyond Israel ' s right to defend itself . the restriction on aid go into Gaza be unacceptable and word have not shift Israel ' s position one iota . be it not time for the Government to recognise that we need to go beyond word and start talk to our international ally about how we can force Israel to allow aid into Gaza and get both side to call a ceasefire ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . we have go well beyond word . clearly , diplomacy around the humanitarian situation be very important , but we have also be determined to ensure that the UK play its part in get that much - need aid in as quickly as possible . the UK continue to provide core relief item . it have already provide 78 , 000 shelter item , 76 , 000 wound care kit and 1 . 3 million item of medicine that have be desperately need . I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . Tehran will not let Hamas and Hezbollah stop , and the lunatic right who be prop up Netanyahu will not let he sue for peace either . the western power and everybody else can have as many conversation and urging as they wish — those have be go on for month — but they be deliver precious little benefit , apart from more blood , heartache and tear on all side . I know it be a difficult thing for a Minister to deal with at the Dispatch Box , but at some point , Washington , London and other surely have to realise that their current diplomatic strategy be not work and that something else need to be try . otherwise , we will be stand here for month to come wring our hand continually and express support , condemnation , solidarity or whatever , and all we will see be the body of the dead pile up on both side . in actual fact , the UK Government have be very clear in our condemnation of Iran ' s role in this situation . we have condemn in the strong term Iran ' s attack against Israel . we have be clear that it escalate an incredibly dangerous situation . it have push the region even close to the brink and that can not be tolerate . the Foreign Secretary have take this up directly with the iranian First Minister . he have condemn Iran ' s attack on Israel and be clear that Iran must take immediate step to de - escalate the situation to prevent further death in the middle east . do the Minister agree that the rejection of a two - state solution be against the interest of both the Israelis and Palestinians , and that we need a path towards a sustainable and long - term , last peace ? I absolutely do , and that have be the long - stand position of this Government , both in opposition and now in office . we really need to see that two - state solution — it can no long be just word ; it must become a reality . we will do all we can to get to a situation where that right of Palestinians and of Israelis be realise . Deliberate target of UN peacekeeper be always unacceptable , but give the evident failure of UN Security Council resolution 1701 and UNIFIL in intent and mission , what do the Minister suggest Israel be to do when it be face incessant attack on its population by a terrorist organisation back by a state ? be it to tolerate the building of tunnel and attack position in territory south of the Litani river indefinitely ? the Government ' s view be that UNIFIL ' s role in southern Lebanon be absolutely critical , give the escalate situation in the region , but it be incredibly important in protect people in southern Lebanon before that as well . the UK fully support unifil ' s work , as mandate in UN Security Council resolution 1701 . that be a very firm basis for its operation , and we back that basis wholeheartedly . the Minister mention international law many time in her statement . my constituent be appal at the inconsistency in the way in which international law and human right be apply , depend on who be commit the atrocity and who make up the targeted civilian population . will this Government finally do the right thing and end all arm sale to Israel , and will the Minister express a simple condemnation of Israel ' s action , include the deliberate targeting of civilian and civilian infrastructure ? the UK Government be absolutely clear about the fundamental importance of the international rule of humanitarian law , and about the fact that it must be apply without fear or favour , whoever we be talk about and wherever in the world they be . the UK respect the jurisdiction and independence of the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court , and the hon . Member can see that commitment to the rule of law reflect in many decision that the new Government have make — include , of course , the review of Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law in respect of its activity in Gaza , which lead to the suspension of about 30 arm export licence to Israel . the Minister have rightly acknowledge the abominable situation face by people in Gaza and in southern Lebanon at the present time . the fundamental question ask by the hon . member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) be simply this : if we condemn the act be undertake by the Israel Defence Forces — the killing of civilian , and the killing of people in hospital and school — why be we still supply Israel with the weapon that enable they to undertake these military activity ? in the repeat message that we have convey to israeli counterpart , the UK Government have be absolutely clear about the need to take all possible step to avoid civilian casualty , to allow unfettered aid into Gaza through all land route , and to enable the UN and its humanitarian partner to operate effectively . as I have say many time during these exchange , we have also be very clear on the subject of attack on UNIFIL . the right hon . member be , I believe , well aware of the decision take by the UK Government in respect of the arm export regime , and I will not go over that again , because we have already debate it in the House . last week , a UN commission of inquiry find that " israeli security force have deliberately kill , detain and torture medical personnel and target medical vehicle while tighten their siege on Gaza " , and say that " these action constitute … war crime " . can the Secretary of State tell I how the UK Government will hold Israel to account for such appalling conduct ? the UK Government look very carefully indeed at any report suggest that there have be a breaking of international humanitarian law . we have be particularly concerned about the situation of many healthcare worker . we have see many of they be kill , and that include UK and UK - link personnel . we continue to look carefully at all these representation , include those that have come from the UN . a moment ago , the Minister support the current UN Security Council resolution 1701 , which be establish under chapter VI of the United Nations charter and relate to peacekeeping . the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , say early that we could potentially deploy british troop to supplement unifil . will the Minister ensure that no british troop be deploy into that situation until there be a peace to keep , or , under chapter VII of the charter , peace enforcement ? the UK Government have be very clear that it be through diplomatic channel , and also through our humanitarian effort , that we be seek to do all we can to promote de - escalation . any decision relate to any resolution would of course be take very seriously indeed by our Defence Secretary and by the whole government , but it have be through those humanitarian and diplomatic lever that we have be strain every sinew to de - escalate and improve the situation of the population who be so badly impact at the moment . I think it be fair to say that call on the israeli Government to change their action have not work and will not work . there be currently three Bills in the israeli Knesset to outlaw the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , and the Foreign Secretary have say in this House that no other agency can deliver aid on the scale that be need . will the Minister show political and UK leadership , and demonstrate explicit support for UNRWA ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this matter , because we have a number of time — it have be a personal priority for I . soon after become Minister for Development , I ensure that I meet Commissioner - General Lazzarini , and I also meet his deputy when I be in Jordan . at the UN General Assembly , we be very clear that we support the mandate of UNRWA , whose role be incredibly important . the Colonna review be important for the organisation , and the UK Government have support UNRWA in implement it . we be clear about the fact that it be a critical organisation , not just in Gaza but in the wide region as well . the far - right Netanyahu Government continue to assert that they be comply with international law , when in fact they be act without restraint . that be clear from the atrocity in northern Gaza , the israeli settlement in the west bank , and completely inadequate evacuation order issue to densely populate suburb in Beirut . will the Minister recognise that the UK be complicit in these war crime due to the UK Government ' s continued refusal to stop all arm sale to Israel ? I regret the way in which the hon . Member phrase that question . I believe that the UK Government do exactly what they need to do , legally and constitutionally , in ensure that there be a proper review operate , with the requirement of international humanitarian law be take seriously . that lead to the decision to suspend 30 arm export licence , and it show a Government take those responsibility seriously , which we will continue to do . the UN have confirm that it have not be able to deliver food aid to northern Gaza since 1 October , which mean that for two week , no food , no water and no aid have reach the region . we now hear report that Netanyahu have a " surrender or starve " plan , which , if carry out , will leave hundred of thousand of Palestinians without the essential . international humanitarian law prohibit the starvation of civilian as a method of warfare . do the Minister agree that this be totally inexcusable , and that Israel must stop use starvation as a weapon of war ? will she provide an update on the effort that we will make to ensure that the situation do not continue , and will she assure the House that we will not sit by and watch Palestinians starve to death ? the UK Government have be absolutely clear about our concern for the very large number of people in northern Gaza who be in extreme need . we be concerned about the fact that the entire population of Gaza be now at risk of starvation , but the situation be particularly intense for those in northern Gaza . my hon . friend be right in say that , disturbingly , it appear that there have be no access since 1 October , as there should have be . we have be clear that Israel must stand by its commitment to flood Gaza with aid , and we continue to push for that at every opportunity . I fully appreciate what the Minister say about the engagement of the Government in stand up for international law , but , with respect , it have be a year now , and every time we come here we hear the same thing : that the situation have get bad . the entire region be live in fear , and the death toll be unimaginable . have we not reach the point where we must accept that continually say " this have to change " be not enough ? we need to hear from the Government what action will actually be take to convince both side that we need a ceasefire and we need the humanitarian aid . ninety - seven hostage have be in captivity for a year , and we need more than engagement and reminder of their plight ; so what be the Government go to do ? the new UK Government have make it absolutely clear that when it come to international humanitarian law , the jurisdiction of both the ICC and the ICJ be paramount . it be legitimate , and we have be explicit about that . we have call repeatedly for a ceasefire , and we believe that bilateral and multilateral engagement be very important . the UK should be seek to exercise leadership in a move towards de - escalation in the region , but , on top of that , we have of course seek to fulfil our responsibility in respect of provision of the humanitarian aid that be so desperately need by people there . I have be hearten to hear the Minister ' s call for a ceasefire in Lebanon and Gaza . can she assure I and my constituent that we be evaluate and exhaust every available diplomatic effort not only to secure that ceasefire , but to get much - need aid into those region ? yes , I absolutely can . the UK Government take our responsibility incredibly seriously . we work very hard to ensure that we be the first country in the G7 to call for a ceasefire in Lebanon . we have work very hard to encourage other country to do the same , and we have consistently be call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza as well . that must be follow by the surge of aid need , but before that , we need to make sure that there be no blockage of aid into Gaza and that people in Lebanon be adequately provide for as well . I have be work very hard on that as the Minister for Development . I strongly endorse the word of the hon . member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) . I note that the Minister perpetually use the word " condemn " when she refer to Israel ' s action , yet last week the Prime Minister come to this House and say that he stand with the far - right israeli Government . they be one of the most powerful and sophisticated military power on the planet , yet only week ago we use our military to help defend Israel . where be the equivalent action to defend the innocent people of Gaza and Lebanon ? it simply can not carry on like this . surely the Government must stop pretend that they be bipartisan in this matter . I must admit that I find some of the hon . Gentleman ' s comment rather difficult to understand . the Prime Minister could not have be clear in state that Israel have the right to defend itself ; it absolutely do have that right . Israel be a democratic nation , and it be important that democratic nation have that right . however , it be of course important that international humanitarian law be adhere to , and I believe that this Government have demonstrate our commitment to that principle in the action we have take , include those of the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary , I and other since our election . last night the Attorney General , who be give the 2024 Bingham lecture , make a powerful case for the UK resume its lead role in promote international law after 14 year of back - pedalling . nowhere be that role more need than in Gaza and Lebanon , so what further step will the Government take to stop the barbaric killing of civilian by israeli force operate in the occupied Palestinian Territories and Lebanon , with no pretence of follow humanitarian law ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for those important point . I have the privilege of hear the Attorney General restate the UK ' s commitment to international humanitarian law at an event commemorate the foundation of the Geneva convention , and this be an important time for we to reflect on their importance , give that it be many decade since they be introduce out of the rubble of the second world war . we have a clear commitment , and it must apply without fear or favour . this government have be determine to ensure that that be the case in Gaza and Lebanon , but there be also grave concern about humanitarian law be break in many other area , include Sudan , Yemen and other contexts . the humanitarian crisis in the middle east be another example of how the previous Government ' s cut to the aid budget have leave we respond to crisis with one hand tie behind our back . since 2019 , official development assistance spending in Lebanon have fall from over £ 200 million to just £ 7 million . will the Minister look at replenish that fund ? I share the hon . Lady ' s concern about the impact of the previous Government ' s approach to finance overseas development . during a turbulent period , we see in - donor refugee cost spiral out of control and eat up part of the aid budget , which I have be very concerned about , and the Government be determined to deal with the situation . when it come to support for Lebanon , we be determined to do what we can with other country and international organisation to support those in need . that have lead to the announcement of £ 5 million for UNICEF , which be an early announcement to make sure that we be pre - position the support that , unfortunately , have now become necessary . in addition to that , we have announce £ 10 million for Lebanon to respond to the lack of shelter and reduce access to clean water , hygiene and healthcare . I understand that the Minister be in a very difficult position , and I also understand that a huge amount of work be go on behind the scene to try to make progress in get towards a ceasefire . however , she have hear member of different party say that the current action be not enough . the consistent , egregious breach of international law by a suppose ally can not be allow to continue unfettered . we have to have a more detailed response from the UK and its ally , as we do when there be breach of international law against UNIFIL . will the Minister commit to come back to this House with a statement on what action will be take to send a clear message to Israel that it be engage in unacceptable behaviour ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for make those point . regardless of which Benches Members sit on , I do not think there will be anyone in this House who be not deeply concerned about the situation impact on people in Gaza — particularly northern Gaza — and Lebanon . of course , we be now see the conflict impact on people who flee from Syria to Lebanon , so this be a very dire situation . the UK Government will do all that we can to de - escalate and to secure the ceasefire that be so desperately need , and we would be more than happy to come back to the House to discuss these matter and our activity . we know how important these issue be to many of we and , indeed , many of our constituent . I thank the Minister for her answer , and for the confidence that she clearly show . do she agree that the presence of tunnel within proximity of UN facility be concern ? it be an indication that the type of underground facility prevalent in Gaza be be use in Lebanon , and it be a clear indication of the scale of the Hamas and Hezbollah terrorist ' reach . we need to deal with the reach of terrorism . rather than berate Israel , we should support Israel to eradicate all terrorism in the region . I be grateful to the hon . member for his question , and for his kind word . the UK Government be clear that it be wrong to use civilian in that manner , and it be really important that civilian be protect . we have see an appalling number of civilian be kill . a number of colleague have already state the figure in this debate , and the UK Government will do all that we can to de - escalate and to secure the ceasefire that be need . why do the Government allow to remain in our country israeli diplomat who advocate a " Greater Israel " , and who oppose a palestinian state and therefore the potential for a two - state solution , contrary to United Nations resolution ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman will be well aware that particular rule apply to diplomatic representation . the UK Government ' s position be that diplomacy be incredibly important , give the gravity of the situation affect Gaza and Lebanon . we will do all that we can through diplomatic mean , include diplomatic representation of Israel and other regional actor , to de - escalate and to secure the ceasefire that be need . it be very clear that many in this Chamber believe that our Government be not do enough . will the Minister please acknowledge that sentiment ? give the disproportionate scale of killing , will she please apply consistency to our approach and commit to suspend all arm sale to Israel ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . in the spirit of constructive engagement , I would appreciate any clear suggestion for action . I do not believe that his broad characterisation actually reflect the engagement of the new UK Government , which have be intense since our first day of enter office to ensure that the UK be supply the leadership need . above all , we must ensure that those who be badly affect by this dreadful situation be be support with aid , and that we see the ceasefire that be so desperately need . I have set out the fact that the UK have comply with our legal obligation around assess arm export licence ; we take that responsibility very seriously indeed . we have debate it thoroughly in this House , and rightly so . the author Howard Jacobson recently write that the sustained medium coverage of child be kill in Gaza be function as a new " blood libel " against the jewish people . my right hon . friend will be aware of the horrendous role that that blood libel have play in the violent pogrom and horrendous antisemitism across history . will she clearly state that the accurate reporting of the terrible death of thousand of child and , equally importantly , the humanising of those vibrant life cut short by the action of the Israel Defence Forces be a critical part of the work of a free medium in our country , so that our constituent can see the horrendous suffering that be happen in Gaza and Lebanon right now ? accurate reporting be critical . we be see large number of image and piece of footage circulating that be incredibly disturbing , and perhaps for the first time our constituent be able to access this wherever they be , because they can see it on their smart - phone , not just on their television screen . it be important that we have accuracy , so that there be clarity for our domestic population about what have take place , and so that , for example , assessment around humanitarian law can be take in a fully inform manner . that be how they must be take legally . UN peacekeeper , include 380 irish soldier , be currently be intimidate and threaten by the IDF , with armament point directly at irish troop who have protect innocent lebanese civilian against Hezbollah and the IDF for decade . the IDF have repeatedly violate international law , include around armed conflict , and it treat hospital , school , church and tent as legitimate target . I know that the Minister agree that the UN peacekeeping mandate must be uphold . if Israel continue on its current path , when will the UK use the arm trade and the official sanction at its disposal ? my hon . friend rightly point out the critical role of peacekeeper , and we recognise that that include irish national as well as national from a number of other country . I be grateful to she for underline that . we be clear that unifil ' s role in southern Lebanon be crucial . it have a clear mandate from UN Security Council resolution 1701 , and we will continue to support that mandate . today , we be join in the Gallery by my friend from the excellent health and human right NGO Physicians for Human Rights - Israel , and we pay tribute to their brave work . together with other israeli human right organisation , today they have warn that the international community must act now to stop Israel forcibly transfer the population of northern Gaza . the Government must do more . what concrete new action be the Government take to stop this happening ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and to all those who be engage in promote the health of those in Gaza , which be under so much pressure at the moment . the UK Government be concern in particular about the potential for communicable disease , especially with winter approach . I pay tribute to all those work in that area . the UK Government have be very clear here . already , more than 85 % of Gaza be under evacuation order , cause chronic overcrowding . People be desperately seek shelter . the situation in northern Gaza be appal at the moment , and we will continue to raise our concern about this with all the party , regionally , internationally and multilaterally . I welcome the fact that the Minister have repeat the Government ' s support for a two - state solution and for an independent palestinian state . a simple question to the Minister : when ? what more do the palestinian people have to do to convince the Government to follow in the step of other european Governments and give immediate recognition to that state ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this important issue . the UK Government be crystal clear here . palestinian statehood be the right of the palestinian people , as I say a few moment ago in this Chamber . it be not in the gift of any neighbour , and it be also essential to the long - term security of Israel . my hon . Friend ask about timing . the Government have be clear that we will recognise a palestinian state as a contribution to a peace process at a time that be most conducive to the long - term prospect for peace , and surely peace be what we all need to see . this morning we hear that Lord Cameron have do all the preparatory work to sanction two member of the israeli Government . could my right hon . friend say what she have do with that work over the three month that it have be in the Department , and also whether the Government have commence look at work to sanction the israeli Prime Minister for his contribution to these war crime ? my hon . friend rightly raise the issue of sanction . I have refer previously in this urgent question to the fact that the UK Government have sanction those who have be promote illegal and violent action by settler . we have be clear about the unacceptable nature of that . of course , we will always keep our sanction regime under review and we take that responsibility very seriously . do the Minister agree that secure an urgent ceasefire be a vital first step to secure a last peace in the region ? absolutely , and the UK Government will continue to advocate very strongly indeed for that , in relation to Gaza and Lebanon . will the Minister join I in condemn IDF attack on UNIFIL in Lebanon ? could she also outline what action the Government be take to improve the safety and security of the personnel and premise of the UNIFIL peacekeeping mission , particularly in the light of recent comment from Israel ' s Prime Minister Netanyahu ? I absolutely will join my hon . friend in condemn any inappropriate attack on UN agency of any type . I be clear a few moment ago about the UK Government ' s commitment to UNIFIL . we believe that its role in southern Lebanon be crucial . we be appal to hear that UN peacekeeper have be injure by israeli fire and , alongside international ally and partner , we have very clearly condemn attack on UN peacekeeper . yesterday , the United Nations Secretary - General condemn Israel for once again target civilian . the Minister have state that Israel must comply with international humanitarian law . we have be hear that for over a year in this Chamber now . what action will this Government take to stop Israel abuse human right and commit war crime ? my hon . friend rightly mention the UN ' s role within this . as a new government , we have be ensure that we play that leadership role , include in relation to the UN . when I be at the UN General Assembly I discuss these matter in detail , particularly the mandate of UNWRA and the importance of reject attack on UNRWA ' s mandate . he also ask about action . I believe that I have already set that out , but I will just underline it very speedily . the UK Government be very clear about the jurisdiction of the ICC and the ICJ , and we have conduct the review of arm export licence that be need legally . we be determined to fulfil our legal responsibility . the final question be from Olivia Blake . report describe the complete dismantlement of Gaza ' s healthcare infrastructure be impossible to ignore when the World Health Organisation have report over 1 , 000 attack on healthcare facility and nearly 1 , 000 health worker die so far in this conflict . what will the Government do to protect health worker as this conflict escalate , and will they consider sanction in relation to these flagrant violation of international law ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention the situation of healthcare worker . I refer to this a few moment ago in relation to those present in the Chamber who have help to deliver much - need healthcare . the UK Government be absolutely clear that healthcare worker must be protect . we see a very disturbing situation with healthcare in Gaza currently . in particular , we see water and sanitation in a precarious situation across much of Gaza . winter be approach and we need to ensure that people be protect there . the UK Government will do all we can on that . I know that many other member wish to ask question . if any of they wish to write to I , I or the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , would be happy to respond . House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Sir Oliver Dowden have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . as set out in our manifesto , this Government be commit to reform the House of Lords . as a result , I be proud to be take forward our first commitment : the immediate first step to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . the Bill before the House today , which be introduce in the first 100 day of this government , deliver on that commitment . change begin . it be a change that be long overdue . in the 21st century , there should not be place in our Parliament , make our law , reserve for those who be bear into certain family . in fact , we be one of only two country that still retain a hereditary element in our legislature , which be a clear sign that the time have come to see through this long - overdue change . it be a matter of principle for this Government , who be commit to fairness and equality . it be not personal or a comment on the contribution or service of any individual hereditary peer , past or present . we be grateful to all peer who commit their time to valuable public service . however , what we do not accept be that , in this era , as a matter of principle , anyone should have a position in either House on the basis of their ancestry . the Minister know that I have a great deal of time for he , even though what he have say so far be nonsense , and what he be about to say be bind to be so too . the truth of the matter be that at the apex of our constitution be , of course , his Majesty the King . he be there because , in the Minister ' s word , he belong to a certain family and therefore derive a certain authority from that antecedence . be that wrong too ? no , because the monarchy be a completely different part of our constitution . first , no monarch since Queen Anne have refuse Royal Assent to a law . secondly , our constitutional monarchy enjoy popular support . I return the right hon . Gentleman ' s respect , and the one thing he be be honest . he be actually set out a defence of the hereditary principle , rather than hide behind a smokescreen , which seem to be the position of Conservative Front Benchers , from whom we will hear in due course . I want young people grow up in Blaenavon , Pontypool and Cwmbran in my constituency , and indeed in every part of the country , to feel that they have the same chance as anyone else to play a part in make the law of the land . the continued presence of hereditary peer in our legislature be indefensible in a modern democracy . the trouble with this sort of partial reform be that it open other issue . why do the Church of England have a monopoly on place in the House of Lords ? I be all in favour of the establish Church , and of let it have perhaps 12 bishop , but why can we not share the other place between this country ' s other christian denomination and non - christian faith ? do they not deserve a voice ? I be certainly in favour of the representation of different faith in the upper House , but the Government set out a step - by - step process in our manifesto . will the Minister give way ? I will come back to the right hon . Gentleman after make some progress . our manifesto set out a series of step , which be the key point . this Government have a mandate to reform the House of Lords . will the Minister give way ? one moment . I will come back to the right hon . Gentleman . our manifesto set out that there should be an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the nation and region of the United Kingdom . we have be elect on a manifesto to get there on a step - by - step basis . will the Minister give way ? as this be his third attempt , I will show sympathy . I thank the Minister for be so generous . he make a very interesting argument , and I think many member be excited about the change he propose . I have read his manifesto , which make a number of interesting point about hereditary peer , a retirement age of 80 , strengthen the circumstance in which disgrace member can be remove and an alternative second Chamber . all of this be miss from the Bill , but it be in his manifesto . be he open to accept amendment to include these proposal that be in his manifesto ? I be delighted to hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s support for the other step in our manifesto , which he should have communicate to conservative Front Benchers when they be draft their reason amendment — [ interruption . ] it look like it too . if the right hon . Gentleman read our manifesto with his usual diligence , he will see that it state that this Bill be the immediate first step . that be the mandate we bring before the House today . will the Minister update the House on the wide reform that our Government be seek to introduce to the House of Lords , and why these reform should not be delay by this specific Bill that , as the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) say , be widely support by the electorate ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . as we look to the other reform , from the retirement age to participation , the Government will look to build wide support on the way forward — support that , frankly , have not be find in previous attempt at reform . at its heart be the principle that people be place in the House of Lords to serve the public , and I look forward to debate those wide reform with Conservative Members , but not in this Bill . do the Minister recognise that a recent survey of Church of England clergy show the need to reform the participation of Church of England bishop in our legislature ? will he reflect on that , and on the fact that it look like we be in danger of have bishop who , instead of focus their effort on the cure of soul , be more like mitre politician ? that can not be good for any of we . finally , we be talk about the Church of England in the Parliament of the United Kingdom . in that respect , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) be correct about expand the clergy ' s membership to include other denomination , or remove they entirely if that prove impossible , for reason that be pretty clear . the Church have recognise the need for reform , particularly in term of size , and today ' s debate be further evidence of why it be sensible to reform in stage . there have not be a single reform of the House of Lords over the last 14 year . be my right hon . friend as surprised as I be that Conservative Members now want huge reform of the second Chamber ? after the past 14 year , they now show a new - find enthusiasm for reform and change . will the Minister give way ? I will give way once more , and then I need to make some progress . the Minister be generous in give way . there be a fertile debate on this side of the House , and the Government should reflect on the fact that Opposition member tend to think independently . do he not think that the idea that a step - by - step process will work at all be for the bird ? I can not comment on the coherence of the Opposition in the course of that process . what we have see so far be a pretty incoherent effort , but perhaps it will improve when we hear from the shadow Minister . this Bill be about make immediate , long - overdue progress . the House of Lords exist for century as a nearly entirely hereditary House . there be an attempt to introduce life peer as long ago as 1869 , with a further attempt to introduce life peer and remove the hereditary element in 1888 . despite those effort , it be only with the passage of the Life Peerages Act 1958 that non - judicial life peer begin to join the other place . some 40 year later , a Labour Government introduce a Bill to end the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . the event that smooth the Bill ' s passage lead that Government to accept an amendment on the principle of the removal of hereditary peer . the amendment retain 92 hereditary peer on a temporary basis , until further reform to the other place be bring forward . despite attempt at further reform , that temporary measure be still in place . one of the date the Minister miss be labour ' s pledge , which have stand for over 100 year , to abolish the House of Lords . that pledge be reiterate by the Prime Minister only a couple of year ago . be it still labour ' s intention to abolish the House of Lords ? do he understand the cynicism about further progress , give that the pledge have not be honour in over a century ? I can not comment on the hon . Gentleman ' s cynicism about progress , but our manifesto clearly set out the Government ' s position , which be that we should have an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the nation and region . in recent decade , major corporation that be family business , such as Ford in the United States or Peugeot in France , realise that recruit from within the family and make a family member the chief executive be not necessarily a good idea . be this not just the same thing ? it be great to have my hon . friend ' s support . as the Leader of the House of Lords say when this matter be debate a few week ago in the other place , for the last 25 year , one of the argument have be that nothing should be do until everything can be do . we see that same , tired , stale old argument once again at the heart of the official Opposition ' s amendment . that approach mean that in 2024 we still have hereditary element in our legislature . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I have already give way to the right hon . Gentleman once . will the Minister give way ? in a moment . it be not right that what be see , even in 1999 , as a temporary arrangement should persist any long . this Government be elect on a manifesto that be explicit in its promise that we would bring about immediate reform by remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . the Bill have a tightly define objective , and a clear focus and aim that deliver on that mandate . the Minister talk about piecemeal reform and say the argument be stale , but surely the really stale argument be Labour ' s . the Labour party come into government with an enormous majority and want to reform the House of Lords , so why do it not get on and do it ? why do the Labour Government not set out some cross - party work that we can all get involve with , and introduce proper reform measure , rather than just tinker at the edge , as the Bill do , for pure political advantage ? who exactly speak for the Opposition ? who know . rather than put that point to I , the right hon . Gentleman should take it up with the right hon . member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) , who propose the amendment . do the opposition have any coherent position leave ? do my right hon . friend agree that the legislation give young people , such as the impressive a - level student I meet at Little Heath school in my constituency , an equal chance to make the law of this country from either House ? how will he ensure that the legislation progress quickly ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the situation for young people in her constituency . the Bill have a clear mandate , and I hope that hon . member will back it in big number today . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s assurance that the bishop in the House of Lords will continue to play a role in our national life . we must not bow to call from Conservative Members who resent that , because the bishop shine a bright light on aspect of our national life that require scrutiny . will he confirm that there be nothing to stop the hereditary member of the House of Lords who provide valuable contribution and expertise in that Chamber become life peer ? there be no bar on that happening . when the new Leader of the opposition eventually emerge from their parallel universe leadership contest , I be sure that they will have a quota , as all leader of the opposition do . it be for they to consider that issue . some minute ago , the right hon . Gentleman say that the young people of Torfaen believe in and want equal opportunity , a point reiterate by the hon . member for Reading West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) . I be not quite sure how that equal opportunity square with a Labour party that want to stuff the House of Lords with its crony . I can not see any equal opportunity in that . that aside , this legislation , on which we will be require to vote , be ill thought through . will the right hon . Gentleman accept that the hereditary peer who be member of the House of Lords have make , and continue to make , a considerable contribution to the work of the upper House , and if so , have he give any consideration to , at the very least , ensure that those hereditary peer who be abolish be give life peerage in a future Parliament ? how can member of the conservative party talk about stuff the upper House with people after the event of the last 14 year ? I think irony have die . as for the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about life peer , I have just say that have be a hereditary peer be no bar to become a Member of the Lords . that will be a matter for the new Leader of the Opposition , have look at the contribution individual have make . I have not denigrate the contribution of hereditary peer — far from it . I have thank people for their public service in the upper House , but it be for the new Leader of the Opposition to decide whether to put forward former hereditary peer as life peer . there will be no objection from Labour Members . I have cover why the removal of the hereditary peer from the other place be overdue . let I turn to why it be essential . it be indefensible in this day and age for people to sit in our legislature as a result of an accident of birth . Prime Minister Harold Wilson , put forward a programme for change in this House in October 1968 , say : " the Government believe that reform should achieve the follow objective : first , the hereditary basis for membership should be eliminate " . — [ Official Report , 30 October 1968 ; Vol . 772 , c . 34 . ] all these year later , that first objective still need to be fully achieve . it be time for the hereditary nature of the House of Lords to come to an end . the former Lord Speaker Lord Fowler put it eloquently : " it be not a question of personality ; it be a question of whether appointment of the House base on heredity be the right solution for the 21st century , and I do not believe that it be . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 23 July 2024 ; Vol . 839 , c . 388 . ] as I say in response to the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) , the Bill be not an attack on individual in the other place . as I have say twice already , we recognise individual contribution . we be say that we should reflect on the million of people who be unable to make the same contribution as a result of the family they be bear into . the time have come for change . if we be to maintain trust in our democratic institution , it be important that our second Chamber reflect modern Britain . I hope Members will vote for the Bill this evening , and agree with I that it be indefensible , in this day and age , that over a 10th of our second Chamber be essentially reserve for certain individual due to an accident of birth . I be deeply worried about the Minister ' s argument . if he talk in that way about accident of birth , how can he possibly defend constitutional monarchy ? if he question the hereditary principle in this place , how can he defend the idea of a hereditary monarchy ? if the hon . Gentleman have be here at the start at the debate , he would have hear exactly the same point make to I in the first intervention . I will repeat the two point I make in response . first , that be a completely different part of our constitution , and no monarch have withhold Royal Assent from a Bill since the reign of Queen Anne . secondly , we have a constitutional monarchy that enjoy popular support . I give the same answer to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) at the start of the debate . let I summarise this short five - clause Bill . clause 1 remove the remain hereditary peer from the House of Lords and put an end to the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in that House . clause 2 remove the current role of the House of Lords in consider peerage claim , reflect the removal of the link between hereditary peerage and the House of Lords . Complex or disputed claim will now be refer to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council , under section 4 of the Judicial Committee Act 1833 , instead of the House of Lords . clause 3 make consequential amendment , and clause 4 set out the territorial extent of the Bill and when it will commence . the Bill will remove the remain hereditary peer at the end of the parliamentary Session in which it receive Royal Assent . finally , clause 5 establish the short title of the Bill . to conclude , the Bill fulfil an explicit manifesto commitment to deliver this reform to the House of Lords . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? in my generosity , as the right hon . Member have ask so many time , I will , for the last time , give way to he . the right hon . Gentleman have be truly generous . we know that he be a radical at heart , and that he have be suppress by no . 10 Downing Street and the Whips ' Office , but we want to see the radical come out of he . his manifesto have four paragraph on constitutional reform . the first be a little waffly , but the second be very important , as it mention the abolition of hereditary peer and the 80 - year retirement age . surely a retirement age provision could be a key element of the Bill . it could be add on to it , to help the right hon . Gentleman deliver more of his promise reform . I say to the House that I be willing to defy my whip to deliver the reform that many of we want to see . together , the right hon . Gentleman and I could form the new radical . when we move on to the next stage of reform , I look forward to a similar amount of independent , enthusiastic support — support that he will no doubt demonstrate when we get a new Leader of the Opposition . rise — I will take one more intervention . I thank the Minister and his colleague , the Minister without Portfolio , for have make themselves available to member of the opposition — as well as to those in the Government party , no doubt — to discuss these thing privately in a less dramatic environment than this one . one incidental by - product have be point out to I by that very important group of peer lead by Lord Norton of Louth , whom I know the Minister be go to see , who be in favour of sensible and credible reform . they say that , by remove the hereditarie , he will be remove the only group of peer who be not appoint in a process that be subject to prime ministerial influence . that be not an argument for not do it , but it might be an argument for put the House of Lords Appointments Commission on a statutory basis . what do he think about that ? even with the removal of hereditary peer , the conservative party will remain the large party in the House of Lords . as for reform of the House of Lords Appointments Commission or any other aspect of reform , that discussion be clearly why the Government have choose to take this more consider , measure approach . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for his constructive contribution when the Minister without Portfolio and I hold our drop - in . I be more than happy for that dialogue to continue , both during the passage of this Bill and when we move to the second stage of reform . will my right hon . friend give way ? I keep be persuade to give way . I be delighted to see the Minister pick up from where Harold Wilson leave off . do he not agree that the key part of the Bill be about make our legislature much more relevant to modern Britain and modernise both Parliament and the country ? be it not inexplicable and indefensible to have hereditary peer in the 21st century in modern Britain ? my hon . friend be entirely right . the second Chamber play a vital role in our constitution , but people should not have a role in voting on and scrutinise our law in Parliament by an accident of birth . this government have be elect with a promise to put public service at the heart of politic , and this legislation , introduce in the first 100 day , show that we be intent on drive that commitment forward . on 21 February 1911 , when the then Prime Minister , Herbert Asquith , move the Second reading of what become the landmark Parliament Act of 1911 , he say that " we present it to the House as the first and the most urgent step towards a more perfect attainment . " — [ Official Report , 21 February 1911 ; Vol . 21 , c . 1911 . ] I present this Bill , over a century later , in the same spirit — as the first and most urgent step that we can now take in the 2020s . I hope that I can count on member in all part of the House to support this Bill . in that spirit , I commend it to the House . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House decline to give a second reading to the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill because it be not an acceptable or effective method of enact major constitutional change , because it propose a significant alteration to the composition of the House of Lords which should not be consider in isolation from other change , have regard to the undertaking give by the then Government in 1999 , because it drip - feeds change that hinder proper scrutiny of measure that could change the relationship between the two Houses , because it risk unintended consequence , do not reflect the lack of political consensus on House of Lords reform and do not provide for full consultation and pre - legislative scrutiny which would give the opportunity to consider the case for overall reform , seek cross - party engagement on proposal , and review the implication of all proposal . " the british constitution be not codify . one might not choose to craft such a system if one be establish a new country from scratch , but we be proud to be an old country . the check and balance of the House of Lords — its try and test convention — work . the House of Lords do not claim to be a democratic Chamber . that be the key point : this elect House have primacy . of course , the british constitution do — and should — continue to evolve , but we should fix only what be break and be cautious about rush into change . our evolution should start with question of efficacy , not optic . we should be guide by the wisdom of past generation , and the continuity of history and tradition . as Edmund Burke write : " we have an inheritable crown , an inheritable peerage , and a House of Commons and a people inherit privilege , franchise , and liberty from a long line of ancestor . " the Paymaster General have describe the excepted peer as " out of step " with modern Britain . like the Blair and Brown Governments , this Government seem obsess with change for change ' s sake . we have see it all before . we have see this rebranding spin to give the impression of progress : the Law Lords replace with the Supreme Court ; the Lord Chancellor ' s Department ape the US - style Justice Department ; even her Majesty ' s Stationery Office recast as the Office of Public Sector Information . at well , it be cosmetic ; at worst , it risk irreversible damage . as we see with the change to the House of Lords ' judicial role , rush constitutional change lead to unintended consequence . we should , therefore , proceed with caution . the role of hereditary peer in our democratic system be a bygone relic of a less democratic age . may I ask whether that be why the shadow Minister feel such an affinity for it ? I join the Government in pay tribute to the hereditary peer . the argument that I will elucidate in my speech , as set out in the amendment , be that if this Government be commit to reform of the upper House , they should consider all the consequence of that reform , and this House , and the other place , should have ample opportunity to consider it properly . the right hon . Gentleman have make great play of how our constitution should develop , but do he not accept that almost every Government , apart from the most recent one , have look at the House of Lords and how it could be reform ? many of we believe that the reform should go much far than that put forward by this Government , which we see as just a first step towards a properly elect , fully democratic upper Chamber that serve the people . as we have see in the debate so far , there be a range of view on both side of the House about how we should proceed with reform . the argument that I be make be that this House should have the opportunity to consider all the change together in the round before we rush ahead with constitutional change for the sake of virtue signal and optic rather than what suit the need of the nation . rise — I shall give way one more time . I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend for give way . will he consider that political legitimacy derive from many source but not entirely from democratic election for , if it do , we would not have life peer or a constitutional monarchy ? legitimacy be not wholly and solely a matter of be elect , or the Labour party would be abolish the House of Lords per se . it will not surprise my right hon . friend to hear that I completely agree with he . as ever , he make an erudite point . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress and then I will give way . instead of proceed with caution , the Government have do precisely the opposite . the Bill have have no pre - legislative scrutiny , no Joint Committee and no cross - party engagement . indeed , Labour Ministers have explicitly refuse to consult on the removal of excepted peer . all that form a pattern with Labour ' s past constitutional tinkering . we have the Equality Act 2010 , which both the Equality and Human Rights Commission and his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary have say in recent month be too complicated and need change . there be also the Human Rights Act 1998 , which , in depart from Britain ' s common - law tradition , far expand judicial review , undermine the very law make by this Parliament and drag the court into answer political question that should be a matter for the legislature . the same apply to Tony Blair ' s successive surrender to EU treaty . those act create new problem for an old country , and this Bill risk do exactly the same . the right hon . Gentleman have be on his foot for five minute and I be find it difficult to follow he . can he answer I directly : be he in favour of get rid of hereditary peer and people who be in the House of Lords on birthright — yes or no ? I be strongly of the view that we should consider all these thing in the round . there be merit here — that be why we be propose a reason amendment — but the risk of proceed in a rushed fashion be that we come to regret it , as we have on many previous occasion . rise — rise — I will make some progress and then I will give way . in 1999 , Baroness Jay , the then Leader of the House of Lords , say that a partly reform Lords with only excepted hereditarie remain would be " more legitimate , because its member have earn their place " and would have more authority . that be term the Jay doctrine at the time . if the excepted peer go , what other convention be at risk of change — the Salisbury convention , or the restraint against veto secondary legislation ? the lack of consultation and scrutiny , and the Government ' s piecemeal approach to reform , have mean such question have the potential to be reopen . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way first to the hon . member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) and then to the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) . the compromise of allow the remain hereditary peer to be in the other place be 25 year old . how much long do the right hon . Gentleman need to consider the option and whether he be in favour of they ? I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that the reform be introduce in 1999 . by my calculation , the Labour party be in power for another 11 year and do precisely nothing far . I will come to this point in a moment , but the reason the hereditarie remain in the House of Lords in 1999 be to ensure that all these thing be consider at the same time . the Government be break a principle that they agree to previously . the right hon . Gentleman rightly talk about the Salisbury convention . be that his way of tell we that , as the Bill be a manifesto commitment — as point out by the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) — conservative peer will be vote for it to comply with the convention that he have say be so important ? well — the right hon . Gentleman would not want to break convention , would he ? the Paymaster General know how much I respect convention , but that be ultimately a matter for the other Chamber . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress , but I assure the hon . Gentleman that I will give way . we should not be surprised that the Labour Government have only introduce this short Bill because they have no clear plan for wide Lords reform . in 2022 , the Prime Minister endorse Gordon Brown ' s plan for an assembly of the nation and region , but now that have be kick into the long grass . Labour grandee such as Lord Blunkett have warn it risk mirror " gridlock " too often see in the United States . Lord Mandelson describe the plan as a " multi - layer cake … barely be put in the oven yet , let alone fully bake . " Lord Adonis observe that within Labour , " there be no consensus on reform " and that it will be " difficult and controversial . " even the current leader of the Lords , Baroness Smith , admit this year that an elect Chamber risk " lose the primacy of the Commons . " therein lie the dilemma for the Labour party and its new - find Commons majority . perhaps Labour Ministers be start to realise that Lords reform be challenging and difficult . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some more progress and then I will give way . in 1999 , the reform recognise the challenge . in this July ' s King ' s Speech background brief , the Labour Government assert that the continued presence of excepted peer be " by accident " . that be simply not true . in 1999 , Labour ' s Lord Chancellor , Lord Irvine , tell the other House that the presence of hereditarie be an intentional anomaly ; it would ensure a future Government undertake proper and consider reform of the Lords . his fellow architect , Viscount Cranborne , call that " the sand in the shoe " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 22 June 1999 ; Vol . 602 , c . 791 . ] now , this Labour Government want to declare war on the past without a clear target in sight . as they can not agree on what to do , the Prime Minister have go for this chipolata of a Bill , the mantra of change serve as a tiny fig leaf to cover his embarrassment . the emperor have no clothe — perhaps other than from Lord Alli . the right hon . Member be make a case on shift sand , which seem to boil down to one of people not have have time to consider the issue . first , this reform have be in two labour manifesto , one in 1997 and one this year , and it have overwhelming support from the electorate . secondly , the compromise reach between the Labour party and the conservative party in 1999 be nothing to do with the good work do by many hereditarie ; it be to stop logjam , because the House of Lords be threaten to hold up Labour ' s programme and throw the Salisbury convention aside . the purpose of the 1999 compromise be to ensure that we do not remove hereditary peer without consider the wide consequence . that be precisely my concern with the approach be pursue by the Government . this meagre Bill be not motivate by consider and enlighten principle . labour want to remove the independent and experienced voice of excepted peer so that it can parachute in a wave of new Labour crony . it be change in the name of an Executive power grab , not change to serve the british people . the excepted peer be immune from the need of political patronage . they work in the public interest for the good of the nation . Edmund Burke once describe they as " the great oak that shade a Country " . the same , I be afraid , can not be say of the sapling of the new Labour intake . rise — I will give way in a moment . I shall prove my point . before the election , Labour source admit that " we ' re go to need to appoint a dozen peer on day one to do big junior ministerial job that the mps shadow they aren ' t up to do . " in 1999 , Lord Strathclyde , the then shadow Leader of the Lords , presciently warn of " the return of an almost medieval executive power — a noisome bramble - patch of presidentialism , patronage , private pressure , preferment and place " — past word that speak truth today . one central argument evince by the Paymaster General be that no one should be in Parliament by " an accident of birth " . yet , today ' s Labour party reek of the hereditary principle — the elevation of the nepo baby of north London , the coronation of the red prince : the Goulds , the Falconers , the Kinnocks , the Benns , the Eagles , the Reeves . many of they be distinguish member , but under Labour ' s closed shop , it be hereditary peer out and hereditary mp in . the question this House must address be whether a wholly appoint Chamber and wave of new Labour peer will improve the governance of our nation . will they mean a proper impact assessment of the cut to the winter fuel payment ? will there be well scrutiny of the propose french - style union law ? or , as Michael Foot tell the House in 1969 when oppose Harold Wilson ' s Lords reform Bill , will it become just " a second Chamber select by the Whips . a seraglio of eunuchs " ? — [ Official Report , 3 February 1969 ; Vol . 777 , c . 88 . ] the Labour party apparently want to apply that phrase to this House , give the diktat from the Labour Whips ban their member from table amendment without permission . the Downing Street boy do not want dissent from either House of Parliament . what be it about defend the indefensible ? the right hon . Gentleman talk about rush , but we have be try to reform the other place for over 100 year . it be not about personality ; it be about the principle of ensure that in a modern democracy people do not become legislator by birthright . surely the opposition support that . the Labour party be in power for 11 year after the 1999 change . it completely fail to undertake this reform , and that be for a reason . we have a delicate and complex unwritten constitution of check and balance , of principle and convention , and when one start to pick away at some of they , one realise the consequence of do so . if we be to proceed down this path , it be important that member — many on the Government Benches have be elect member for only four month — have the opportunity to scrutinise the change . this be a new Parliament and we should have the opportunity of proper scrutiny . I be grateful to the former Deputy Prime Minister for give way . he be right : I have not be here as long as he have . I be enjoy his audition for the shadow Cabinet when the new leader arrive , but will he join I in the Aye Lobby this evening , yes or no ? I doubt I have much chance of join the next shadow Cabinet . this be my swansong rather than my audition . I have set out the reason I oppose the Bill — it be rush and we have not consider the wide consequence . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for give way to a sapling . the interesting thing about sapling , as I be sure he know , be that sometimes we become oak — I guess we shall have to see — and the reason there be so many sapling on the Government Benches be that we chop down so many oak from the conservative party . although we have not be in the House for long , many of we have be involve in the interest of our constituent and the conversation of politic for a long time . do he agree that the House do not hold the collective knowledge of the whole country and that sometimes we may have form view about what be necessary for the other place before reach this Chamber ? I very much hope that the hon . Gentleman grow into a sturdy oak , like all the great oak on the Benches behind I . there be a path to be follow to achieve that . many people may well enter the House with pre - exist view , and that be of course the basis on which many of they be elect , but my argument be that we should consider the consequence of one change in relation to hereditarie for the wide composition of the House of Lords and the constitution . my right hon . friend rightly talk about the consequence of the change . have he also consider the effect of the removal of the Earl Marshal and the Lord Great Chamberlain of England , which be protect in the 1999 legislation introduce by the then Labour Government ? will my right hon . friend commit to support their retention in the House of Lords on a constitutional basis ? that be a very important point . I believe that the Government have plan to address that in the legislation . have those people , with their experience of organise coronation — as I see during the coronation two year ago — be another part of how our constitution work . all of the element work together , and if we pick away at one , there be unintended consequence . to be clear , the Lord Great Chamberlain and the Earl Marshal will not continue to sit and vote in the House of Lords under this Bill , but they will continue with their important ceremonial function . the risk be take away something that have form part of the fabric of our constitution . the role of those two officeholder have be essential to the role of the Crown , and prevent they from fully play their part in the House of Lords may have unintended consequence that be deleterious to the interest of the nation . Hereditaries and appointee aside , I would argue that the precise composition of an unelected second Chamber be a second order issue . both the Government and Parliament should be consider how we can well improve the scrutiny power of the revise Chamber . we need a strong government , but we need a muscular Parliament too . all government should be hold to account , particularly one with the big gap in history between their number of mps and their popular vote . we should particularly consider how Parliament can well scrutinise the quango state — unaccountable tier of government that be balloon under this Labour Government . lord reform be challenging . for a century , no one have cut the gordian knot — certainly not Gordon Brown . the system we have inherit from the turn of the millennium still work , prove the strength and adaptability of the british constitution . constitutional change be an area where one should tread lightly . it require proper consultation , engagement and consideration . on that basis , as set out in our reason amendment , the Opposition will oppose the Bill , not to defend the privilege of old , but in defence of a strong and independent Parliament that stand up to an over - mighty executive , and for our nation ' s long - stand liberty and freedom . it be a delight to speak in this debate . I first wish to praise one of my predecessor , Lord Bruce Grocott . since the 1999 compromise , he have try his good to achieve the step - by - step constitutional change that the shadow Minister mention , by abolish the by - election for the hereditary peer . that be the first step Lord Grocott suggest . at least those peer be elect by someone , unlike all the other placeman . if the right hon . Gentleman be patient , I will come on to the farce of the by - election that have take place for the hereditary peer . for I , Lord Grocott epitomise what be great about the House of Lords — somebody with experience , a contribution to make to our national life , and who be appoint by the then Prime Minister , Tony Blair , to the other place . as we have hear from the opposition , hereditary peer do make valuable contribution in the House of Lords , and nothing would stop those people be select by the Leader of the Opposition or the Prime Minister to go back to the House of Lords , should that be their wish . do the hon . Gentleman agree that there may well be an opportunity for all the conservative mp who might need to stand down because of restriction on second job ? they feel so strongly about the contribution that hereditary peer make , and some seat may be open up for they in the near future . I be surprised that conservative mp be able to get second or third job when they do not do their first job very well at all . a second Chamber in the manner that I have describe could be a vital force in deliver effective and consider progressive change , whereas the ancestry and bloodline entitlement be for the bird . it do not stand up to 1924 standard of accountability , let alone 2024 standard . as I say , my noble Friend Lord Grocott have table on a number of occasion a private Member ' s Bill to remove the by - election process for hereditary peerage , and it be support time and again by many peer . that Bill — the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) ( abolition of By - Elections ) Bill — be filibuster by a handful of hereditary peer . indeed , the last time a Labour Government win a landslide majority and try to abolish hereditary peerage , the other place , which be unelecte , threaten to disrupt the Government ' s agenda , and force they to compromise by keep 92 hereditary peer . the Opposition leader in the House of Lords say in 2021 that the tactic be to " make their flesh creep " in order to stop the Government ' s programme . hereditary peer and the obstruction of democracy have consistently go hand in glove . fortunately , the Minister have take the first step towards reform the House of Lords . as many member will be aware , of the 92 hereditary peer in the other place , there be not a single woman . it be perhaps no coincidence that when by - election come around , that all - male electorate keep on elect more man , who then go on to elect more man . that do not sound like progressive change to I ; it sound like an old boy ' club that have change very little in several hundred year . not only do election on the basis of bloodline lead to bad outcome , but it be wrong on principle . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman will catch Madam Deputy Speaker ' s eye in due course . I be proud to play my part in the democratic process , as somebody who be elect by the people of Telford . there be a strong message here for young people in our constituency : " if you want to become a Member of the legislature , either in this Chamber or the one down the corridor , you can do so base on your contribution to public life and your skill , not your bloodline . " in one by - election , there be six candidate but only three voter . that be an absolute embarrassment for democracy . what view must other country take of we ? there be many area in which the United Kingdom be a world leader or aspire to be one — our education system , civil liberty , creative and business sector and many more — but the House should agree to modernise and transform this area . it be right that the House of Lords be reform . no doubt , over the course of the year and decade to come , more reform will come through , but this be a fundamental first step that the people of this country have vote for the Government to deliver . I congratulate the Minister on introduce the Bill so quickly . I look forward to vote for its Second reading tonight . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats have be call for reform of the House of Lords with a democratic mandate for decade . the Bill be a welcome step forward , and one that we support . these measure be long overdue , and we be grateful that they have be introduce so early in this Parliament . fundamentally , we Liberal Democrats do not believe that there be space in a modern democracy for hereditary privilege . the last significant reform of our second Chamber be introduce year ago . although we would ultimately like to see a fully democratically elect upper Chamber , this legislation be a very welcome step to modernise the upper House . in maintain the right of hereditary peer to sit in our legislature , we be one of only two nation in the world in which membership of a second Chamber be decide by virtue of hereditary privilege . the principle of inherit membership of the other place be deeply antiquated , and we welcome the Government ' s move to remove that ludicrous practice . reform of our upper Chamber have be a long - stand Liberal Democrat policy . in fact , our stance on reform of the second House outlive many of the historically significant peerage that the current hereditary peer establishment maintain . forty - nine per cent of the current hereditary peerage be create in the 20th century , while only 29 % of hereditary peerage predate the 19th century , and the most recent be create in 1964 — post - date the Life Peerages Act 1958 — so this legislation do not wash away our history or destroy tradition . the statistic alone should dissuade any argument about uphold of heritage . this reform be simply a move towards a more democratic form of politic . we must do all we can to restore public trust in politic . how can the hon . Lady call it " more democratic " to have a purely nominate Chamber ? regrettably , the right hon . Gentleman have not be listen to what I have be say . liberal Democrat policy be to have an elect second Chamber . we welcome these measure as a step towards a democratically elect Chamber . I have long advocate — with , I think , the support of my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( Sir David Davis ) — the abolition of the House of Commons , the abolition of the House of Lords , and instead four national Parliaments , each with a First Minister , and an upper House deal solely with defence , foreign policy and macro - taxation , which be the original purpose of Parliament . why be the hon . Lady prepare to go half hog rather than the whole hog ? I must say , I regret that the Conservatives do not win a mandate in July for the kind of wholesale reform that the right hon . Gentleman be propose . as I say , the liberal Democrat policy have always be for an elect second Chamber . that be not what the Bill deliver , but we be look for the Government to go far — far far than the Conservatives do in the previous 14 year . [ interruption . ] I find it so extraordinary that Conservative Members be suddenly all convert to the cause of Lords reform when they have do nothing about it for a decade and a half — it be insane . I say to both right hon . gentleman who have intervene on I that Liberal Democrat policy be for an elect upper Chamber , but get rid of the hereditary peer be a welcome first step , and that be why we will support the legislation . we must do all we can to restore public trust in politic after the chaos of the last Conservative Government . by remove this unelected and undemocratic aspect of our Parliament , we will move close to that goal . the hon . Lady ' s argument would hold far more water if the Liberal Democrats adopt the position of not nominate anybody for the upper House until it be wholly elect . however , every single council leader up and down the land who have lead a liberal Democrat - Conservative group — sometimes of only three people — have suddenly find themselves drape in ermine and voting in the upper House . her principle and her party ' s action be very wide apart . I want to be very clear : the Liberal Democrats support the idea of a second Chamber . under the current system , it be an appoint and elect Chamber ; we be here today to support the principle of an elect second Chamber , and we be support the first step in that direction . we support the principle of an upper Chamber , and be very glad that there be Liberal Democrat representation within it , but that do not mean that we do not support the idea of change the way in which people be introduce to the upper House . that be the principle that we be here to support . honestly , I be find it difficult to work out what the conservative argument be here . do they want to abolish the House of Lords , do they want it to be elect , or do they want to keep everything exactly as it be ? we support the Bill because it be a welcome first step towards a broad range of reform that we have support since 1911 — which , as I have say , pre - date many of the hereditary peerage that Conservative Members seem so keen to maintain . not only be the concept of inherit privilege one of fundamental , antiquated inequality , it exacerbate the distinct gender imbalance of the second Chamber , with not a single woman among the current hereditary peer . remove the right of those peer to sit in the other place would make that gender imbalance slightly less severe , move from 70 % of peer be man to 67 % . Parliament should be a body that represent and reflect the diversity and richness of the people and culture that make up our country . this legislation , which would remove the last remain hereditary peer ' membership of the other place , be a significant step towards a more representative Parliament . if successful , the Bill would have a significant impact on the size of the House . in 2017 , we support the finding of the Burns report , which recommend measure to manage the exponentially increase membership of our second Chamber . by remove the right of hereditary peer to sit in the other place , we would see a significant reduction in the size of the House , move it back towards a more sensible size . liberal Democrats be supporter of that change and the move towards a small upper Chamber . while we be grateful to the Government for the introduction of this Bill and intend to support its progress through the House , we also recognise and acknowledge the commitment , wisdom and contribution bring by some hereditary member of the upper Chamber . we thank they for their work , yet hope they can agree that we can no long ignore the entrenched inequality that the continuation of hereditary membership of their House bring . the Liberal Democrats have a long - stand commitment to reform our second Chamber with a proper democratic mandate . I and my liberal Democrat colleague , both in this Chamber and the other place , be work together to push for broad reform as soon as possible . we be glad that the Government ' s manifesto commit to other reform , include change to the appointment process , address the national and regional composition of the second Chamber , the introduction of a mandatory retirement age and a participation requirement , and we ask the Minister to set out a timeline for those reform . the Liberal Democrats have consistently speak out against the current system of prime ministerial appointment , which engrain patronage , reinforce the elitism of british politic and contribute to so many people lose faith in our system . we would like the Government to reassure we that they will not be follow in the footstep of the former Conservative Government , who ignore the finding of the 2017 Burns report and preside over a House of Lords that have balloon in size . there have be suggestion that the Government ' s plan for reform of the other place include a requirement for any nomination for a peerage to be accompany by an explanation of the candidate ' s suitability . will the Minister commit to that requirement , bring the appointment of peer more in line with the process for other honour — such as knighthood — with political party provide an overview of the relevant skill , knowledge and experience of the candidate ? could the hon . Lady tell the House how many life peerage be give out by the California lobbyist Sir Nicholas Clegg ? no , I can not . that happen in a previous Parliament and have no relevance to this current piece of legislation , which be about abolish the hereditary peer . do my hon . friend agree that it be surprising to hear the confusion from Conservative member regard our position on this Bill ? we have figure out how to win under first past the post , cost so many of their colleague their seat , but we come here with the ambition to change the voting system to a much more progressive , fair and proportionate one . in the same sense , the way to deliver a fully reform House of Lords be to engage in the process and change it from within . I thank my colleague for his intervention , which underline that what the Liberal Democrats want be a fully reform House of Lords — an elect second Chamber . we think that that will well serve the people of this country , restore some of the gravita and dignity of the House of Lords , and make it a more effective second Chamber . ultimately , that be what we should all be look to achieve . the Liberal Democrats continue to support the finding of the 2017 Burns report , which claim that the House should be cut to 600 peer and outline way to ensure that happen . while the removal of hereditary Members be an important step in that process , we will continue to push the Government to continue with further reform in the future . in particular , we look to they to uphold their manifesto commitment to introduce a retirement age , a measure that far aid the reduction and subsequent management of the size and membership number of the House of Lords . we also want the second Chamber to have proper democratic legitimacy . I be curious as to whether the Liberal Democrats would be open to amendment that look to take the reform propose by the Government that step far . it be very important that we work together to make sure we get the good form of upper House . we will certainly be participate fully in Committee , scrutinise the legislation to see whether suitable amendment can be table , but that will be a liberal Democrat initiative . it be something we will certainly play our part in . we want the second Chamber to have proper democratic legitimacy , ultimately move towards the replacement of the House of Lords with an elect Chamber . we believe that move to a fully democratic , elect Chamber be essential to strengthen the integrity of Parliament and the authority of our second Chamber . the hon . Lady be be very generous with her time . the Liberal Democrats clearly have a very form view of the reform that they want , so what number of Lords would be in the elect upper Chamber ? [ interruption . ] I have to confess that I miss the hon . Gentleman ' s question , because I be distract by the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) . I will just reiterate that we want to see broad reform of the House of Lords , with a democratically elect second Chamber . rise — I be not give way again . more broadly , we be supportive of wide electoral reform , and look to the Government to support our pledge to modernise our electoral system . we want to strengthen democratic right and participation by scrap the conservative party ' s voter ID scheme , expand political and democratic engagement by extend the right to vote to 16 and 17 - year - old , and take big money out of politic by cap donation to political party . we call on the Government to enshrine the ministerial code in legislation , give Parliament the power to hold Ministers to account and protect politic from corruption and sleaze , and we want this new Labour Government to be bold in transfer great power away from Westminster and Whitehall . we believe that local authority know well what their community and town need , and we want this Government to acknowledge that by boost their authority and power . I hope we can all agree on the inappropriateness of hereditary status as a qualification for membership of a modern parliamentary democracy — that be the son , grandson or great - grandson of a former courtier , colonial administrator or 20th - century businessman be neither reason nor justification for a seat in a democratic Parliament . I and my liberal Democrat colleague therefore welcome the Bill and be grateful to the Government for take swift action to make our political system fairer . through this legislation , we hope to see the most significant modernisation of the upper Chamber in a quarter of a century , and while we will continue to push the Government to introduce bold and broad parliamentary reform , this legislation signal a serious move towards more representative , more democratic and fairer politic . my liberal Democrat colleague and I be proud to support this Bill as it move through the House . rise — Order . I give member a small reminder that this be a very specific Bill , deal with the hereditary Members of the House of Lords , and therefore that speeche need to focus on that topic . I also remind all member — it be sad to be say this to Front - Bench spokespeople — that when you use the word " you " , you be refer to the Chair . that be not how we conduct debate in this House . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your guidance on acceptable conduct in this place . I think it be very important , and I be grateful to be able to make what I hope will be a relatively brief contribution to the debate on this Bill . it will come as no surprise to Conservative Members that I fully support the Bill in front of we , which I think be a sensible , rational and timely first step towards reform of the other place in a way that give we time — as the right hon . member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) have so eloquently argue for — to consider other thing as we go along . there be a time for evolution and a time for revolution , and at the moment , it be time for evolution in how we amend the House of Lords . it be a question of how we take the first step towards remove the most indefensible part of that House and of our constitution , while allow ourselves the time and space to consider the other issue that have be raise and the commitment we make in our manifesto . I gently remind conservative member that that manifesto deliver a majority government — you could say that consultation be have , and therefore we enact our policy . I enjoy the contribution of the right hon . member for Hertsmere . I do not ask he to speak for his party because it be in flux . however , I ask Conservative Members not just to complain about the scope of the Bill , especially the lack of reform — I welcome their support for reform of the upper House ; it have be a long time come , but well late than never — but to consider whether they can defend the right of 92 people to sit in the upper House by virtue of their birth . those 92 peer have be almost exclusively white man . when the House of Lords Act 1999 be pass , five woman be allow to continue as hereditary peer in the House of Lords , the last be the Countess of Mar , who retire in 2020 . as my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) say , whenever the opportunity for a by - election arise for one of the seat hold by woman , the woman be replace by a man . More than 200 candidate be on the roll of eligible peer who could stand in by - election for those seat , have the House of Lords not amend its Standing Orders . I will take an intervention from any Conservative Member who can tell I how many of those on that roll be woman . anyone ? no . the answer be two . few than 1 % of those eligible to fill those hereditary seat be woman . I have no doubt that conservative Members share my concern about the inequality that arise if we say that a white man have a potential privilege when he be one of the 92 or when he be a member of the 200 family who , by 100 - year - old letter patent , have be in a position to secure one of those seat . to I , that be the most indefensible aspect . it be not necessarily about who those people be . I do not doubt that every single member of the hereditary peer group , whether in my party or not , have expertise and a skillset that they can bring to bear . however , if , upon their expulsion , they wish to continue to contribute to public life , all party will have nomination list during this Parliament . they can use they , if they wish , to bring back their good and their bright . of course , when those hereditary peer be no long member of the House of Lords , they be entitle to do what we have all do and present themselves to the public for election to this place , with a mandate . conservative Members be clearly unembarrasse by the total lack of woman among the hereditary peer . do my hon . friend agree that they should be embarrass by the total lack of woman on their Benches right now ? I be not sure that any Labour Member need to quantify conservative Members ' embarrassment ; they do it for themselves . the hon . gentleman seem to be confuse about whether they want more or less reform . I think we know that the answer be that they do not want any reform , but they create a smokescreen of want to act fast and with more zeal than Labour Members simply because they wish to ruin the Bill . they want to press amendment that be not relevant and not in the Bill ' s scope . they want to make argument about retirement age . when the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) argue that there should be a retirement age of 80 , I be sure that he have not speak to his right hon . friend the Member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) , who be 81 , although , to look at he , one would not think he be a day over 60 . I be puzzle . it be clear that the hon . Gentleman do not like the current system , but he do not explain how our legislation would be well for remove those people who have so much wisdom , experience and knowledge . how will our country ' s legislation benefit from the change ? the hon . Gentleman will forgive I for not agree with he . there be a lot of wisdom and experience in this place that can be use to improve our legislation . even with the removal of the 92 hereditary peer , there will still be 650 peer , who have incredible insight and specialism . the Bill remove a group of people whose only entitlement to be in the House of Lords come from , as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson say , a birthright many hundred of year old , and from be select by their friend to sit with they . the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) may not agree with I , but as my hon . friend the Member for Telford point out , the election process in the other place be a farce . there be often more candidate than elector . it be almost akin to the Tory party leadership election . the only other group that seem to reserve a place in the House of Lords be millionaire — party donor . sixty - eight out of 284 political appointee between 2003 and 2013 give £ 58 million to political party . what will the hon . Gentleman do about they ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I to stray outside the scope of the Bill . Madam Deputy Speaker have be clear that the Bill be specifically about hereditary peer . the Government have commit to reform the appointment process for the House of Lords . everything do not have to be do in the same Bill . as the former Deputy Prime Minister point out , the pace need to be consider , so that there be no unintended consequence , about which he be rightly concerned . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) can chunter at I from a sedentary position , but when we be consider hereditary peer , we be look at the 92 . if anyone want to justify reserve seat in the House of Lords for 92 white man , I will take an intervention now . conservative Members do not want to do that because they do not want to defend the indefensible . they want to complain and bellyache that they do not like what we be do . they dress up their complaint as process concern about unintended consequence and make spurious argument about the Earl Marshal and the Lord Great Chamberlain . that all show that the conservative party have simply run out of steam and idea . all Conservative Members can do be chunter and complain about what we want to do . set aside the hon . Gentleman ' s ageist remark , which I find deeply offensive , let I consider the point that the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) make . why be it okay for the Labour party to maintain the Prime Minister ' s patronage to appoint party crony to the House of Lords while abolish the hereditary peer , who do a good job ? I apologise to the right hon . Gentleman if my suggestion that he do not look a day over 60 be ageist — perhaps I should have say " over 50 " . I find it difficult to take an argument from Conservative Members about crony patronage and the House of Lords when the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson put hundred of people in there . he do so against the advice of the House of Lords Appointments Commission , yet Conservative Members say nothing at the time and be happy about it . now , all of a sudden , it be an absolute problem that need to be resolve . I welcome the fact that my right hon . friend the Paymaster General have make it clear that , after we have complete the process of remove the excepted hereditary peer , the Government will move on to other part of House of Lords reform , which will make the appointment process more transparent . that will allow we to have a consider debate about the way in which that process can happen . while we have prime ministerial patronage , it must be transparent . frankly , Conservative Members can give no lesson to any of we about transparency in prime ministerial patronage . Boris Johnson pack the House of Lords with his friend and crony against the advice of official , and Conservative Members have nothing to say about it . I be interested in the hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion that further reform will be come down the line . that will entail further legislation , and we know how precious legislative time be . can he — or perhaps the Paymaster General — tell we when the subsequent Lords reform Bills will be introduce in this Parliament ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his support . there will be more legislation . I be not a Front Bencher , but I know , because our manifesto say that we be committed to further reform , that that time will come . I be sure that there will be legislative time and that he will have an opportunity later in the debate to put the question to Labour Front Benchers directly , or perhaps to table a business question for a Thursday morning . to draw my comment to a conclusion — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I would rather not , if that be okay — anyone else but the right hon . Gentleman . he be only 10 vote away from potentially get a peerage himself , so perhaps for that reason he may not want to comment on the appointment process . the hon . Gentleman have have a nice laugh at my expense , but he know what it be like to lose an election and to move seat . he make a good point about the labour manifesto include the removal of hereditary peer , but as my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) make clear , the same paragraph include the introduction of a retirement age at 80 . will the hon . Gentleman welcome any amendment to introduce that in this legislation ? again , I be surprised I have to explain to the right hon . Gentleman how legislation work . a government do not legislate on their whole manifesto in one Bill at the beginning of a Parliament . those on my party ' s Front Bench have say , and I fully accept that this be the right way to do it , that there will be a sequence of reform over time , start with the expulsion of the hereditary peer . that be the simple way to start this process , allow time and space for consider debate about the other propose reform that be in our manifesto and be support by the british people . in conclusion , all this Bill do be seek to end a 27 - year anomaly that first come about when the conservative party object to previous reform . by vote for it tonight , we can start to right that wrong , and we can start ourselves on a process of reform of the House of Lords . I look forward to welcome all my new reform friend to join we in the Aye Lobby this evening . before I begin my remark , I apologise to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I have a meeting with a Minister at the Department of Health a little later , so I will have to slip out for part of the debate . I slightly hesitate to say this in the presence of my right hon . friend the Member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , because I would love to describe myself as a romantic old tory who believe in the Peel dictum that we should keep the good of what we have and reform only where necessary . however , I be afraid that that ship have probably sail and we be now full steam ahead into the 21st century , and there be much in what the Paymaster General say to support the principle that he seek to advance . in a modern legislature , can we justify — beyond its be an attractive traditional anachronism — have 92 or whatever hereditary peer ? it be frankly nigh on impossible to make that argument , apart from as a romantic attachment , although my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) give it his good shot . he make some very important point , particularly in quote Burke . I have to say that I be distressed to hear that , when our leadership issue have be settle , he will be leave the Front Bench — he be just start to show such promise , and I be sure great thing beckon . he be a great mate , and he will be much miss . I be afraid that the argument the Minister deploy be not the good one or what I be expect to hear he say . he be an accomplished author : he have write a book on Nye Bevan , an award - win book on Harold Wilson and a book about Attlee . he may possibly be able to hear those hero of his spinning in their grave , because his approach to Lords reform would translate as Wilson have a " lukewarm heat of technology " , Attlee say , " well , I ' ve create a little bit of a welfare state , and I think we ' ll just pause there for 30 year and see how that go , because some people may not like it " , or Nye Bevan say , " do you know , I ' ve open a cottage hospital in Cwmbran , and that ' s quite enough : let ' s just pause for a moment and see how that work . " if you be go to do it , do it ! I make this point with the great respect and politeness , because I admire the right hon . Gentleman enormously . after 14 year in opposition , decade since Harold Wilson and over a century since Lloyd George ' s price list of viscountcy — and heaven know what else when he be sell peerage to try to keep the old liberal party in power — the right hon . Gentleman say , in a tantalising Lords reform version of the dance of the seven veil , " I want to show you this little bit of what we ' re go to do , and there ' s more to come after the interval , but we don ' t how long the interval will be . " my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) be a former Chief Whip , so he know full well the pressure on legislative time , and the Cabinet Office have do well to secure a legislative slot so early in the Parliament to deliver some constitutional change and reform . what a miss open goal to deliver the thing that most of we — include , I think , the right hon . Gentleman — would like to see . the right hon . Gentleman — I say this as a fellow boy from south Wales — tell we that there be nothing well than when we see man and woman of good will who wish to take part in our national life have the opportunity to do so . that be what we all want to see — a socially mobile , inclusive , engage democracy — if for no other reason than that it mean that , through that mechanism , we can destroy and put away those on the extreme , who only ever fill the vacuum when those woman and man of good will do not step up to the plate . remove the 92 hereditary peer will still leave appointment to the Lords up to patronage — be a great mate of a party leader . across the House we should be absolutely frank about how all party leader all of the time have use the House of Lords as a way of get rid of the awkward , the bed blocker or whoever . I have to say to Labour Members that , while we should all beware of Greeks bear gift — I can say that as somebody who be a quarter greek — they should beware of a Labour Chief Whip offer they a peerage , because the Government will change the age qualification . it be the unkind retirement present for Margaret Beckett , John Spellar and other . they say , " please go to the House of Lords and make way for a new , young , able thruster , " and then , " oh , we ' re frightfully sorry , but you ' re now too old to take your seat . " to damage the street cre of we both , I be very fond of the hon . member , as he know — we go back a long way — but do he agree with I that perfection should not be the enemy of the good , and he should vote for this measure as a down payment on future reform ? I say to the hon . Gentleman , whom I nearly call my hon . friend because he be a friend , that I be more than likely to vote for this Bill on Second Reading . I possibly should have tell my Whip about that beforehand — there be my peerage go . notwithstanding the fact that my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) be one of my old and dear friend , I must say that his reason amendment seem to have be write more because of the need to write something , rather than actually to make a case to persuade , which be entirely atypical of the way he usually work . my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge make the important point — I do hope that those on the Treasury Bench and the Government Whips have listen — that this be an opportunity to consider proper amendment to make this a more material exercise . we live , thank God — I say this as a roman Catholic — in a multicultural , multi - religious society . we have an establish church , and I do not think anybody would advocate for its disestablishment at this stage . however , it be surely an anachronism , just because of the see to which they have be appoint , for the Archbishop of Canterbury and other to sit as part of the legislature . the only other country that have cleric in such a position by dint of office be Iran , which I suggest be not a country that we should seek to emulate very much . let we have a faith Bench or faith Benches , but let those Benches be of mixed faith and truly representative of the faith group do so much good in our country . a number of the hereditary peer have be do sterling work . I think , in particular , of my noble Friend the Earl Howe and his Grace the Duke of Wellington , whom Labour Members be pray in aid just a few month ago , of course , when his grace be lead the campaign against the then Government to improve water quality and sewerage . I suggest that his expertise in and knowledge of water quality in chalk stream and so forth should not be lose . I do take on board the sincerity that the Minister claim — this be not a personal thing or a class war ; it be a matter of principle . I think the House get he on that . I do not think he need to make that point any more . but I do hope that there may be an opportunity for a supernumerary list outside the normal leader ’ nomination — birthday or new year honour — so that those hereditarie who wish to continue their service , and not all will , can have confer upon they a life peerage . that would make good much of what the Minister have say with regard to his principal motivation and that this be not a personal thing . will my hon . friend agree that if this legislation be to go through , there should be a provision to ensure that all the hereditary peer be offer a life peerage as part of the package ? one can make a perfectly reasonable argument to say it should be offer to all . one can make an equally good argument that it should be offer only to hereditary peer who be fulfil a House of Lords duty — chair a Committee perhaps , or if they be active on their party ' s Front Bench . my right hon . friend have make an important point and I be sure that the Minister will consider it . it would certainly be an act of good grace and it would be an act of charm , both of which I know be characteristic with which the Minister be fully imbued . I do not wish to detain the House , but when I raise this point during the Minister ' s remark he indicate that it would be perfectly proper and possible for a leader of a party to put forward hereditary peer for life peerage , but that be not the point . the point be that there should be a separate list in this legislation to accommodate all of they . I be go to stay mute on the " all " point , but my right hon . friend echo the point I be endeavour to make , which be that a list of conversion , as it be , from hereditary to life should be consider by his Majesty ' s Government , outwith leave it to leader of any party to nominate for a new year ' s honour or a birthday honour , because that would clog up the system for those who be new to public life — echo the point the Minister raise — where people want to make a contribution and may have catch the eye of the power that be in order to secure a nomination . I think there be a job of work that need to be do . there be a number of way in which one can land on the right solution , but it should not just be a case of , " thank you so very much indeed for your service . please return the ermine to the Lord Great Chamberlain . your retirement party have be postpone because we could not find a room to have it in " , or whatever it may happen to be . I think there be a way which be elegant , which be kind , which be graceful and which have some democratic underpinning , because at least it will have go through the appointment . I close by say that this be a miss opportunity , and the Labour Front Bench need to consider that . I appreciate that they have the distort effect of the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , who do take up a little labour bandwidth . we all get constrain by deliver Brexit , or try not to deliver Brexit . and then we all have the big national distortion of the pandemic . but to offer this dance of the seven veil , after 14 year of opposition , and on an issue that people in this place and outside have be talk about for over a century , suggest to I a lack of detailed preparedness by the Government in some policy area . it can not have be a shock to Labour that they win the election ; it may have come as a pleasant surprise that they win so comprehensively , but it really can not have come as a shock that they be likely to win the general election whenever it come , irrespective of how hard my colleague and I be work to ensure that do not happen : " there be a tide in the affair of man which , take at the flood , lead on to fortune " , or misfortune in my party ' s case , but we be where we be . I hope that amendment be forthcoming — I do not think it be too late to work cross - party on this — to buttress this proposal and deliver some of that democratisation of the House of Lords , and to make sure it be more regionally reflective . I listen to the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) talk about the number of white man . I will be careful as he be help I on a constituency issue , for which I be grateful and I want to put my thank on the record , but my party have give the country three female Prime Ministers , the first Prime Minister of jewish heritage and the first Prime Minister of the Hindu faith , so I be not entirely certain that we need to take lesson from the Labour party on how to bring people who be not necessarily use to public life into public life . the hon . Gentleman make my point quite succinctly for I . yes , there be three female leader of his party , but they be elect ; none of they have the opportunity to take up one of the 92 seat in the House of Lords . that be the anomaly that need to be resolve . Labour be very keen to stop the Member for Stoke Newington be elect , and doubtless she would have be don ermine at some point , so again I think the hon . Gentleman be on slightly thin ice . I say to the hon . member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , who be look confuse , that I be talk about the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) . I say to he , " keep up , 007 ! " I do not know whether he notice it during the election campaign , but there be quite a lot in the medium about it . he should look it up — the House of Commons Library be frightfully helpful on these sort of thing . so I say to my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere , with huge reluctance and sadness , that I be more than likely to sit this one out , as the Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee — and I be sure that the Committee will want to look at this in more detail when we be up and run . but the underlying principle that the Minister have set forward be a compelling one . it be a sadness , a disappointment and a surprise that he be not take this opportunity , after 14 year prepare in opposition , and after a century of make the case from the centre - leave of british politic , and with a massive Commons majority , and that this timid little church mouse of a Bill be the good that he can offer we this afternoon . I call Claire Hazelgrove to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be the privilege of my life to give my first speech in the House of Commons as the first Labour Member of Parliament for the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency . have be a candidate since 2022 , it still feel rather surreal to be on this side of the election and to say those word , and in truth I hope that stand here in this awe - inspire place will always feel at least a little surreal . I could not be more grateful to fellow resident for the time that thousand of they have give in speak with I and my volunteer team on their doorstep over the year already , and for put their faith in I to serve they well . but no matter how people vote , I will work hard every day to serve all resident as an active , impactful and approachable MP that they can be proud of . I come from a family of teacher , NHS worker and RAF service member , and their sense of public service run deep in I . I have spend my life work with and for those who too often do not have enough of a voice on issue that matter to they — on global poverty , on opportunity , on the environment and on the housing crisis . I be at my core a campaigner and advocate . I whole - heartedly believe in the power of community , and that live experience be as valid in shape policy and public service as hold multiple degree in that same subject . I see this role , which I be honour to hold for a time , as be a vital jigsaw piece , join together with other to make life fair for people across our community and our country . the NHS worker , the charity worker , the teacher , the carer , the innovator and the volunteer — I could go on — be the one who bind we . that be certainly the case across our rich tapestry of town and village just north of the city of Bristol in glorious South Gloucestershire . I be determined to put the whole of the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency — name after the old and young town at the time of its creation , and include many distinct and vibrant community — on the map . it be the home of Concorde and the future of flight , with our aerospace company set the standard nationally and internationally . it be the home of the lifesaving NHS blood and Transplant , the innovative University of the West of England and the vital MOD Abbey Wood . it be also home to Wallace and Gromit , more place call Stoke than one could count after a few great local cider , and a palpable belief that well day still lie ahead . People in my constituency do not ask for too much . we want security , stability and fairness , and to know that if we work hard , we have the same chance as anyone else to fulfil our potential . we want to know that we will be able to provide for our family through good wage earn from decent job , and to enjoy life and give back in our own way . I be incredibly grateful for the fact that even though they have be up against so much in recent year , people in my community choose to keep their faith in well . I will work hard every day to repay that trust . with that in mind , while it be almost impossible for any two people , let alone 75 , 000 of we across a constituency , to agree on everything all the time , I will always be up front with fellow resident , will listen , and will share what decision I be make and why . I believe that how we do thing in politic matter almost as much as what we do . I appreciate my part — my responsibility — in do politic differently and have well conversation . on that note , I give thank to my predecessor . Jack Lopresti champion defence , and I know that he will be glad of this Government ' s continued support for Ukraine . before recent boundary change , some local resident be serve by Luke Hall , and briefly by my hon . friend the Member for Bristol North East ( Damien Egan ) , when he be the last member for Kingswood . my true thank to they and their predecessor for their service . I also want to give my personal thank to two other former member of this House who have be important in my journey to this place . Sally Keeble be the near Labour MP to I when I be grow up in a village that still do not have a Labour MP . she take I under her wing and first encourage I to think about stand to serve in this place . I also thank Tony Blair , whom I have the privilege of work closely with for a few year at his Institute for Global Change . his approach to consider and considerate leadership have teach I a great deal . it be the last Labour Government ' s response to the Make Poverty history campaign that show I that politic at its good can be an unparalleled force for good , and that significant change can happen when people power meet political power . that be when I first find the Labour party . I get into politic , like many , to make a difference , but I be drive every day by the simple belief that someone ' s background should not determine their life chance and life choice . that be why it feel fitting to give this speech today , in a debate that be fundamentally about how we make our Parliament well and fair . while I be a great supporter of british institution and tradition , there be clearly no place in a modern Parliament for people — largely man — who can vote on legislation as a birthright , because their father do . as a new officer of the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people , and as a soon - to - be member of the upcoming group focus on political and media literacy , I will work hard and across the divide to help other to feel as confident , capable and comfortable as anyone else in these space . I hope to show that if I can stand here today — a girl from a village who have , and still have , a simple belief in make life fair — so can anyone . I be fully commit to serve local people well , put our priority at the heart of the agenda and break down barrier to opportunity , so that everybody have their chance to thrive . I end by thank my family , friend , campaign team and community , who inspire I every day . what a pleasure it be to follow the hon . Lady ' s immensely accomplish speech . she be absolutely right that politic and Parliament can be a force for good — particularly , to go into the detail of what she say , when people be drive by a share sense of fairness . I shall speak today about legitimacy , efficacy , dignity and continuity . first , I will deal with legitimacy . authority be legitimately exercise by those of we here who be elect , but not all those who exercise authority be elect , and not all legitimacy depend on direct reference to the people . the right hon . member for Torfaen ( Nick Thomas - Symonds ) serve as a Government Minister who be appoint by his Majesty , and be choose to serve by his Government and his party . he be elect to this place as a Member of Parliament , but he be not elect as a Minister ; he be appoint , and exercise all kind of power on that basis . I do not challenge his legitimacy ; I accept it as part of our democratic settlement . under our separation of power , many people exercise authority who be not elect at all . judge be not elect , but be appoint on the basis of their competence , knowledge and experience , and they exercise power use their wisdom . all of we in this Chamber know of authority derive not from election or from the people . a lot of people here will be parent . mother and father exercise all kind of authority , but they be not choose to do so by those over whom they have that authority . we might call that authority by accident of birth , or at least of someone else ' s birth . authority and legitimacy need to be debate in a much more measured way than they have be in the debate so far . I have hear many wise speech from all part of the Chamber over the time I have spend here , and I have hear many daft speech , too . there be nothing dafter than someone say that they will vote for a provision that they do not believe in because it make the House of Lords more democratic , as the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) do , when it do not in fact make the House of Lords more democratic at all . it be not more democratic to be appoint by a party leader or nominate by one ' s peer than it be to be bear to sit in the House of Lords . let we have a sensible and mature debate about this and consider legitimacy in the round . let we also talk about efficacy . the House of Lords play a vital role in our constitution by ensure that the Government be hold to account , and by provide a creative and , by and large , helpful tension with this House . that have not be convenient for government of any colour . when I be a Minister in previous government , many time I have to negotiate with member of the upper House — from all party , by the way — in the same way that I engage with colleague from across this House to get legislation through . that tension be critical , because it allow scrutiny of what be bring before this House and agree here , and by and large the system work . it be awkward and difficult — it be probably not what we would contrive if we be to design a system from scratch , as my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) say — but it have prove generally effective over time . rise — I see that my right hon . friend be itch to intervene . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his excellent speech . I want to make a simple point , which be that we be naturally respectful of evolution in nature because we see that it lead to progressive improvement , in general , in specie , and diversification , but we be extraordinarily foolish when we consider the evolution of our institution . the House of Lords have become , over time , a remarkably effective scrutineer of legislation , in its diverse way of selection . he make an argument on legitimacy ; do he share my view that the House of Lords ' legitimacy come not only from the exercise of authority effectively , but from a certain expectation as to expertise and the degree of care and attention with which people be bring into that House ? of course my right hon . friend be right that change be inevitable and change be constant , in the word of Disraeli , but that change need to be build on an understanding of what have go before , exactly as my right hon . Friend say . evolution in our thinking build on what we know and add to it incrementally . for the most part , constitutional change be well when it be incremental and when it be found on consistent and measured dialogue between people across the House — the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) . rise — I give way to the hon . Gentleman , who be an admirer of mine in his previous life . I wonder whether that admiration be constant , too . I be indeed . I be go to share with the House the secret that I use one of my reference in a report to endorse the right hon . Gentleman as a candidate . he make the point , in agreement with the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , that incrementalism be a good thing ; surely this be an incremental Bill that take the first step towards a big reform . this be why I do not agree with the radical on the Opposition Benches . this will come as a surprise , but I be not , by temperament or politic , a radical . one of my great political hero , Joe Chamberlain , begin life as a radical , but like most sensible people , he move to the right over his life , and in the end become a Tory , or at least a supporter and member of a Tory Government . I do not share the view that we can conjure some kind of ideal system by throw all the ball up in the air and see where they land . as the hon . Gentleman imply , incremental change be bear of an understanding that gradual alteration to our constitutional settlement be , by and large , well . that be what most government have do over time ; indeed , the Blair Government , to which the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) refer , take exactly that view when they reform the House of Lords , retain the hereditarie on the basis of the very sort of incrementalism for which I argue . I apologise for go back to a point the right hon . Gentleman make early , but he make the argument that ministerial appointment and appointment to the House of Lords be decision that we take on behalf of our constituent as part of our representative democracy . do he agree that we politician be then hold to account by the electorate in the election that follow ? former prime Minister Liz Truss be hold to account for her decision on appointment to the House of Lords , and her decision to appoint to the Cabinet people like Kwasi Kwarteng , who immediately crash our economy . do that not show that there be democratic accountability for the appointment we make , either to the Cabinet or to the House of Lords ? the unusual nature of the hereditary peer mark they out as the odd appointment out in the House of Lords ; they face no accountability , and they can not be take into account in the democratic process . I try to follow the hon . Gentleman ' s argument . as far as I can work out , he say that elect people be accountable , but they do daft thing sometimes . there be not much evidence to suggest that Members of the House of Lords have be less wise than member of the House of Commons . there have be wise people here and wise people there . there have be good decision there and good decision here — and bad one , too . the hon . Gentleman be right , of course , that we be directly accountable to our elector , and I treasure and honour that . the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke say that she revere her connection with not just her voter , but her constituent , and so do I . I will make some progress because I know that you of all people , Madam Deputy Speaker — note my use of " you " in this context — will not want I to truncate my remark . have say that , I know that other , include my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , be very keen to contribute , and he will not forgive I if I use up all this time . let we talk a bit about efficacy . the average hereditary peer be young than the average peer . a high proportion of hereditary peer be active member of the House of Lords , serve on Committees , on the front Benches of both party or as whip . a much high proportion of hereditary peer contribute to speech and amendment than life peer . purely on the ground of whether they be do their job well , there be no real argument for get rid of this small number of people . there may be a well argument — notwithstanding my resistance to radicalism — for look again at those member of the House of Lords who , once appoint , never go . that be the reform that I think I could vote for . the Labour party have that in its manifesto , and say that it would introduce it as part of its reform of the House of Lords . do my right hon . friend think that it would be good if it support such an amendment ? I would be interested to see what amendment come forward , give my right hon . friend ' s remark . there be a strong argument for have an expectation that if someone be appoint to the Lords , they do their job . that be the kind of amendment that even I , with my deep - root conservatism , could be persuade to support . on the basis of the efficacy argument , the Bill do not do the job . let we speak of dignity . Bagehot describe the House of Lords as one of the " dignified " aspect of our parliamentary democracy . let we translate that into what we know about it in our age : debate in the House of Lords tend to be measure ; its amendment , though sometimes forceful , by and large be withdraw in the end in deference to the elect House ; and the expertise in the House of Lords be undoubted , as peer be draw from many part of our community . that include the hereditarie . the parody of hereditary peer , which I suppose be root in the old day of backwoodsman , that they be somehow a privileged elite who take no great interest in the affair of our nation and bring no great skill to the consideration of those affair , be just that — a prejudiced parody . my right hon . friend be absolutely right , and it be always good to have a mention of Bagehot in any constitutional debate . Bagehot draw the distinction between the dignified and the efficient part of the constitution , but I think that my right hon . friend be make an argument that the House of Lords be no less an efficient part of the constitution , because of the effective way in which it scrutinise legislation and , in particular , in which the hereditarie play their role within the House . in a sense , would he not improve on Bagehot ' s distinction by blend the two a little in the case of the House of Lords , which he be so ably defend ? do he share my view that , if the Labour party be prepare to nominate vast number of its own life peer , it might consider the question of whether they should make a commitment to attend the House for any period of time , rather than just take the honour and abscond ? dignity and efficiency be not necessarily incompatible — my right hon . friend personify their marriage . he be right to say that there be something ugly about the idea of a Government of either party simply stuff the House of Lords with their friend or donor . let we be honest : that be not something one can accuse the other side of this Chamber of without acknowledge that it have become a habit in Parliament over time . let I qualify that for a moment . there be not a power or policy in the history of man that have not understand the importance of patronage . patronage be a part of the exercise of power , but the way it be handle — how measure the application of favour be — be a matter of dignity . there be something fundamentally undignified about replace the relatively small number of hereditary peer who , as I have say , be prove to do a good job . I notice that when some of they be cite , the Minister , with his usual candour and decency , nod in approval . those peer be replace by placeman seem to I to be fundamentally undignified . let we now talk a little about continuity . the House of Lords represent a link to our past . that may trouble some people in this House , but it do not trouble I . I be a Tory , so I believe that society need to marry a respect for the past , consider the present and meet the need of " future generation " , in the word of Burke . that connection to what have be be an important part of our constitutional settlement , as my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere set out . Lord Roberts rightly describe the measure before we as " cut the link with our collective past that go back to the period of Magna Carta " . the Duke of Wellington , who have be refer to favourably already in this debate and whose great - great - great grandfather defeat Napoleon at Waterloo , now sit in the other place . be we not right to recognise that that legitimise our connection with the past , to use legitimacy in another way ? it make that link real , powerful and , I think , desirable for that reason . to conclude — notwithstanding beg your favour , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I do not want to test your tolerance to its limit — let I say , without acrimony , because I have already make clear that I respect the Minister and his record in this House , that I suspect what drive the Bill be not a desire to maintain dignity , or for great efficacy , or even the rather narrow - minded view that the only legitimacy that matter be democratic legitimacy , although that do of course matter , but a preoccupation with modernity . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I be go to finish now . a vapid fascination with now — imagine that . of course , those philosopher on the Labour Benches will know that " now " be an illusion , as now become then in an instant , do it not ? yet the politic of now have an extraordinary appeal for faint heart and weak mind . I know there be not too many of those in the Chamber , although rather more than one might ideally wish . that fascination with modernity leave I only able to finish by quote Marcel Proust . oh , please not ! [ laughter . ] I know there be student of Proust litter among the sapling on the Labour Benches . if they be truly to become oak and leave their acorn in the soil , they need to read Proust more . Proust say that " the most deplorable prejudice have have their moment of novelty when fashion lend they its fragile grace . " it be a prejudice that drive the Bill . it be a prejudice that do the House no credit — or at least , I should say , do the party opposite no credit . I call Anneliese Midgley to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) for such a passionate maiden speech . she will be an excellent representative for her constituency . it be a privilege to stand here to give my own as the first woman to represent Knowsley in Parliament . my predecessor , Sir George Howarth , serve Knowsley with dedication for over three decade . in his maiden speech , he promise to " shout and make a fuss " — [ Official Report , 26 November 1986 ; Vol . 106 , c . 289 . ] for his constituent . he certainly keep that promise , serve not only as a loyal constituency MP but as a Northern Ireland Minister under a Labour Government . I have another illustrious predecessor : the MP for Huyton from 1950 to 1983 , Harold Wilson , who serve as a Labour Prime Minister . Harold transform our economy and industry , found the Open University , and start we on the long road to equality that we be still travel . he leave a more equal society than he inherit , one in which far few get by on too little . I be so honoured to follow in his footstep . Knowsley make I who I be . I be bear and raise in Cantril Farm , a so - call slum clearance estate . my nan live in the flat there , and I go to Brookside school , where my auntie Jean be a clean . my dad work at Ford , on the production line , and with his secure , well - pay , unionised job , my mum and dad could give I a well life than they have have . then , as a teenager , I get job in Liverpool , in Brian ' s diner on Stanley Street , and at the Beatles shop , where I meet Paul McCartney a few time . I start club night where I dj ' d , and one of they — liquidation — be still go . however , I be here today as a proud trade unionist . it be the trade union that build the Labour party . I be proud to be a member of Unite and the GMB , and I be proud to be a former political director of Unite and adviser to the general secretary of the TUC . the union be my second family , and it be because of they that I have come from the council estate to the parliamentary estate . I know why I be here : to speak for my class , the work class . I will not forget who I be or where I come from . it be my duty to stand up for the people of Knowsley and to champion our strength — our dignity , our resilience and our sense of community . I will never talk down my part of the world or its people . our street be soundtracke by the La ' s and China Crisis . our park and estate have nurture footballe legend such as Peter Reid and Steven Gerrard . we have produce the fine writer and actor of my class : Alan Bleasdale , Phil Redmond , Sue Johnston , and Stephen Graham . they all showcase Knowsley ' s creative talent . last Friday I meet Lord Derby at Knowsley Hall , the place that give my constituency its name . the so - call local toff and the former council estate kid speak about how we can work together for the betterment of Knowsley . Knowsley Hall , where Shakespeare perform for Queen Elizabeth I , still represent our rich heritage , now revive by the Shakespeare North playhouse . nowadays , alongside the people of Knowsley , I count as constituent two tiger , six lion , 11 rhinos , and a horde of cheeky monkey who will take the wiper off your car at the safari park . in modern manufacturing , the Jaguar Land Rover car plant in Halewood not only provide job across my constituency , but be currently at the forefront of electrification . we have 100 - year - old family firm with solid apprenticeship that lead to skilled job , such as JJ Smith and Hemsec , pioneer in net zero construction . I will fight for investment in firm like these and job to take pride in , which can provide a good life . I be proud of Knowsley , but I will always be honest about what stand in our way . Knowsley be the second most deprived constituency in the country . when government have walk away from we and leave we to manage decline , we have pick ourselves up and help one another through sheer force of will , determination , resilience and solidarity . we now have a Government who will not walk away , a Labour Government who be on our side . in Knowsley , we have great woman who lead community institution that take care of our people every day , such as Racheal Jones at one Knowsley , Marie Stuart at Southdene community centre , Jackie Croft at Centre 63 , Pam Richards at the Safari Kids Club , Caroline Grant at the First Step , and Margaret Roche at SHARe . in 1986 , when my predecessor take his place , only 6 % of school leaver in Knowsley get a job . that kind of unemployment scar family for generation . we have never recover from the devastation of deindustrialisation under Thatcher and 14 year of austerity . we still face low wage , high poverty and few opportunity , and we need secure , unionised job on decent wage so that people can get by and their kid can get on . it be not much to ask , but it be everything . that be why Labour ' s plan — the new deal for work people — be so close to my heart . it will be the great transformation in right at work in a generation . in Knowsley we dream big , but the opportunity be not always there . teacher and school staff in Knowsley work incredibly hard , but the fact be that there be no a - level provision in my constituency . no child should grow up under a Labour Government thinking that they be not good enough to do an a - level , and I will do everything I can to change that , alongside deliver more and well apprenticeship . my politic be the politic of people and of the shop floor , the bus stop , the school gate and the supermarket . from Huyton and Kirkby to Prescot , from Stockbridge village to Knowsley village , and from the Johns estate to the Tower Hill estate , I say to my constituent : " you be my priority . I will not take you for grant . it be the honour of my life to serve you , and I will do my very good for you . " it be a great privilege to follow such a moving and strong maiden speech by the hon . member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) . I could tell by how she speak with such passion about Knowsley that she will always be a fierce advocate for her constituent , and make sure that their priority be properly hear in this House and that the Government do everything they can in order to address they . there be a connection between the constituency I represent for 14 year and her , as I have the great privilege of represent many of the Jaguar Land Rover worker at the engine plant , which fall within my former constituency prior to the boundary change . it go to show how important it be that we always work across party in pursuit of our common interest , because the success of so many great engineering firm , such as Jaguar Land Rover and BAE Systems , have an impact on all our constituency . I look forward to work with the hon . Lady on many share issue in the future . this debate be an interesting one , because it offer the Government and this House the opportunity for real change — maybe I be like some of the people who read the labour manifesto and believe that it be actually go to deliver change . the manifesto have an enormous number of picture of the Prime Minister with a fine range of clothing provide by Lord Alli — 32 picture , I believe . certain aspect of it give I real enthusiasm , and one be about constitutional reform . I appreciate that constitutional reform be probably not the thing that drive many people to vote one way or another , but it be a very important part of what the manifesto say . it set out some important area of change and reform . however , when we look at what the Government have bring before the House , we see that this Bill be not about radical change . it be not about try to take the opportunity that have be talk about many time in the past , include by the coalition Government and the previous Labour Government . we have already hear about the history over many decade or even a century . reform and change have be promise but not deliver , and I can not help but feel that this be such a moment . the Paymaster General will know that parliamentary time be always scarce . we love to think that it can be manufacture , but he will know that he will not get many opportunity to bring forward legislation on the House of Lords . indeed , I would expect this to be the one and only time he get to bring forward such legislation . on the composition of the House of Lords , the scope of the Bill be very wide , and I would argue that that open the opportunity to take a slightly more radical step forward in this legislation . I have rarely be refer to as a Tory radical — I put this down to my socialist root and my socialist family — but I feel that more can be do here . I want to speak on a number of area . the first , which be particularly important to I , be the injustice of the fact that there be 26 bishop in the House of Lords . an Anglican could say , " well , they be represent I well " , but I think it be fundamentally wrong that my child , who be Catholics , have no form of representation in that Chamber . yet the Government will not eradicate this injustice . how can it be right that legislation that be pass in the 19th century be not look at afresh ? why be english bishop allow to sit in the House of Lords but not Scottish , Welsh or Northern irish bishop ? my right hon . friend be make a fantastic point . he will know that it be in the Tudor era that reform of the House of Lords start , when the majority of bishop be remove , leave these 26 . the Paymaster General make a point about reform not have be properly continue since 1999 , but actually , when we be look back to the 16th century , we can see that some of these reform really need to catch up with modern time . indeed , and I want to encourage the Paymaster General . he have the potential to be know as a great reformer of the Labour party — he will write book about himself in the future — but he need to be brave . he need to be bold . I know that he can persuade his friend in the Whips Office to be bold . fundamentally , we have a big opportunity . there be an unfairness . there be an injustice . so many people of so many faith , and so many people of no faith at all , see that there be 26 bishop in the House of Lords . they do not reflect what the United Kingdom look like today , so if the Government be not willing to table an amendment , I will table an amendment to remove those 26 bishop from the House of Lords . rise — I hope that the hon . Gentleman will support I in that mission to make the upper House a fair and more reflective Chamber . I thank my Staffordshire colleague for give way . if he carry on with this strain of radicalism , he might even have a book write about he by the Paymaster General — scant as it might be . be he take his point to the final degree ? be he now advocate for the disestablishment of the Church of England , because that be where that argument end up ? no , they be totally different thing . there will be no disestablishment of the Church of England , but we need to lance the boil of the frankly ridiculous fact that we have clergy automatically sit , as of right , in one of the Houses that make up this Parliament . to I , that be not right . it happen in Iran , but it do not happen elsewhere . I can not see the justification for it , especially when it do not reflect the nation and region of this country . strong argument have be make across this House , include on the Labour Benches , about the fact that hereditary peer do not reflect the make - up of this country . the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) make a persuasive argument about the fact that they be nearly all male , and that only 1 % of they — I think he mention — be female . well , there be a similar challenge with those bishop . of course , nowadays , only 2 % of the british population attend anglican service on a Sunday . More people declare that they have no religion than actually attend a church . Britain be a very different country today from how it be in the past . in an early intervention , my right hon . Friend say that this Bill be an opportunity miss , and that such legislative opportunity do not come by very often . for the moment , the Cabinet Office have this Bill . might I suggest that replace 92 hereditary peer with what my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) call " placeman " be not reform ? would it not be a good idea if Ministers give a clear undertaking this afternoon that they will accept amendment of the kind that my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) propose ? I very much hope so . I know the burn radicalism within the Paymaster General ' s stomach , and I know he want to make a difference , but I seem to be more committed to deliver it than he do . I be very keen to make sure that we deliver what he promise on page 108 of the manifesto . I want to see that deliver . the Paymaster General know that he will not have another opportunity to legislate on this issue , but he have this opportunity to make a difference , because so many of the thing mention in the labour manifesto can be deliver within the scope of this Bill . he have hear that there be Conservative Members with the reform zeal he once have as a young man , which he seem to have forget with the trapping of office . we want to fan the flame of radicalism in he . even I , as a loyal Labour Member , would say that there be more fun thing to do before bedtime that read the manifesto , which I see my near neighbour have consider very seriously indeed . for he to amend the Bill , it have to have have its Second reading . will he vote for the Bill tonight ? I want to make this a proper bill that reflect the hon . Gentleman ' s manifesto . I will give way again to the hon . Gentleman so that he can answer this . if the Bill be amend to reflect the labour manifesto , would he join I in vote for those amendment ? I be grateful to my near neighbour for give way . will he vote for his manifesto ? listen , 20 vote hold , and I will give my answer in a moment . it be not for I to set Government policy , but I look forward to the right hon . Gentleman join I in the Lobby tonight and get this Bill through . what I will be do be the work to make sure that this House have the opportunity to vote on a Bill that will deliver proper reform of the upper House . whether that be in area set out in the labour manifesto , such as a retirement age of 80 year , which be in paragraph 2 on page 108 — Shame ! only in the House of Lords , let I be clear . it be also vital to introduce participation requirement , and I look forward to work with Ministers to make such amendment . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way , if the hon . Gentleman make it clear whether he would vote for an amendment that reflect the manifesto commitment he be elect on , if I be in a position to table it . will the right hon . Gentleman vote for the Bill before the House this evening ? the Minister have be very clear that this be the first step of constitutional reform . I have make it clear . will the hon . Gentleman vote for his manifesto ? he be frightened to deliver his manifesto because of what the whip will do to he . Labour Members have be tell that they be not allow to table amendment . they have be sit on so oppressively . when I be Chief Whip , I always encourage as much debate as possible , across the House and include from my own member , as I know how important it be to have a broad , wide - range debate . it be slightly depressing that there seem to be a more heavy - handed approach . rise — be there no one new to give way to ? rise — I will give way to the hon . Gentleman . I thank my neighbour , the right hon . member for Great Wyrley , Penkridge and Stone — apology , I might have get that the wrong way around — for give way . he have be selectively quote from the Labour party manifesto . he say the manifesto say we will introduce a retirement age for peer , but fail to mention that the sentence start with the word : " at the end of the Parliament . " I know the conservative party have a problem stick to Parliaments last five year and that we have have a lot of election recently , but as far as I be aware , this Government do not intend to have quite so many election . we intend to be here and pass a large amount of legislation . will the right hon . member response to that point ? I hate to correct my neighbour , but as I have the Labour party manifesto in front of I , I will read it to he . " the next Labour government will therefore bring about an immediate modernisation , by introduce legislation to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . labour will also introduce a mandatory retirement age . at the end of the Parliament in which a member reach 80 year of age , they will be require to retire from the House of Lords . " so the manifesto talk about when the Member will retire not when the legislation will be introduce . we know the Paymaster General be an aspire radical , potentially — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be there anything within your power or your gift that can make the right hon . Gentleman stop with this inconsequential rubbish ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order . it be not a matter for the Chair , but I be sure the right hon . Gentleman be come to the end of his remark . I remind hon . member to stick to the motion and that their content could well match the matter before the House . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , the motion be incredibly broad . I have listen to many inconsequential speech make by the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , and I look forward to another inconsequential speech by he later . the Bill present an opportunity to deliver significant and important reform that will have a lasting impact . for I , it be important to recognise the injustice of one faith group be disproportionately represent in the House of Lords in a way that do not reflect today ' s society . however , equally important reform could be undertake , such as bring standard for people take on financial interest in the other place in line with those of this House , ensure we look at participation , as set out in the Labour party manifesto , and look at a retirement age for those in the other House . I appreciate there have be much enthusiasm in this debate , and I be sure there will be much enthusiasm go forward , but legislative time be precious . the Government have a mandate to deliver change , but I encourage they to take more significant step , whether on the removal of bishop , the retirement age or other reform that will make the other place a well place . I call Henry Tufnell to make his maiden speech . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) and for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) who give excellent speech , show real love for their community . I look forward to serve alongside they in the year ahead — country first , party second . I know other may think it be the case for they , but I must admit to the House that I have the immense privilege of represent the most beautiful constituency in Wales , and therefore the entirety of the United Kingdom . from the spire of St Davids cathedral , to the classic car show in Cresswell Quay , Dobby ' s grave in the sand dune of Freshwater West , and the pastel - colour house in Tenby , Pembrokeshire be iconic . even the little - know playwright William Shakespeare pose the question as to " how Wales be make so happy as t ' inherit such a haven . " if that be not enough , Lord Nelson declaim that we have the " fine port in Christendom " . that be praise indeed , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have be discuss constitutional reform extensively in this debate and Pembrokeshire have always be interweave with the story of our individual , but united , four nation : the Welsh monk Asser summon by Alfred the Great to leave the great settlement of St Davids to advise he at court ; the birth of Henry Tudor in Pembroke castle who would later return from exile to land his army near Dale and march to Bosworth Field ; and the siege of Pembroke castle by Oliver Cromwell in almost the final act of the english civil war , begin a period of 12 year of the protectorate reign supreme . since my election on 4 July , some of the more charitable correspondent have take the opportunity to observe that I be a slightly unusual person to be a Labour MP . I come from a farming family and there be not many vote Labour poster around where I grow up , but time have change and , as the son of a fierce , strong and wonderful Welsh woman , who be in the Public Gallery today , I be proud to be part of the red wave that subsume Pembrokeshire , Wales and our United Kingdom . my wife and I choose Pembrokeshire as our home . I choose to join the Labour party , and now , perhaps to my father ' s despair , I choose to vote and do away with hereditary peer . I say sorry to my dad , who be sit in the Public Gallery today , but I be here to serve the many , not the few . talk of family , I wish to acknowledge my wife , Poppy . it be not fun be a political spouse — not that I would know — and she have big fish to fry in the law court . she have be a tower of strength — a real and meaningful support — and I be so grateful that she be on this journey with I . we do not get to this place alone , and I want to thank all those true believer who stand with I and campaign in the rain , the sleet and the snow , on the beach , across farm and across our many rural community to deliver a Labour MP and a Labour Government . I be grateful to they all . as with the history , the experience and the tribulation of the great figure of Pembrokeshire ' s history , our county have see its fortune rise and fall . the fishing industry be once the large in our United Kingdom . the establishment of the Royal Naval Dockyard during the napoleonic war in Pembroke dock cement our county ' s military legacy , which live on to this day in Brawdy barrack and Castlemartin range . the latter part of the 20th century see the rise of the oil industry and the transformation of Pembrokeshire ' s economic fortune , with four oil refinery on stream by the early 1970 . oil have give way to gas , and the Port of Milford now have two liquefy natural gas terminal , one gas - fire power station and one oil refinery . More than 20 % of the UK ' s energy come through the port . with the rise of renewable energy and the potential for float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , we be in a unique position to give true meaning to the term a " just transition " . we have the talent , the skillset , the resource , and I will use my voice in this House at every give opportunity to ensure that Pembrokeshire will not only benefit from but spearhead the industry of the future . on the subject of fortune rise and fall , I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor , Simon Hart and Stephen Crabb . both be dedicated servant of the good people of Pembrokeshire and have long and successful career in this House . they fly high , with both serve as Secretary of State for Wales and hold other Cabinet position . their most notable act be Stephen ' s bid to be Prime Minister and Simon ' s unenviable task of hold together a fragmented Tory party as Chief Whip . I wish they both well , and I hope that Simon , the quintessential countryman , can find time for his alternative pursuit , give that his favoured sport have become something of a b ê te noire for my party . as I bring my maiden speech to a close , I wish to paraphrase the word of a man great than I and one who have already be mention in this debate : the inspirational and history - make Harold Wilson . he say that the party on the Government Benches be drive every day by " a moral crusade " and that , without that mission , that purpose and that cause , we be nothing . in my county , where we have the high child poverty rate in Wales , those word be as true now as they be then . I will use my time in this House to fight for fairness , to deliver real change and to stand up for all the people who live , learn and work in the wonderful community that send I to Parliament . the work be urgent , the time for action be now , and I be here to serve . I call Steff Aquarone to make his maiden speech . hello ! it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) , and I extend my warm regard to all the Members make their maiden speech today . first , I would like to acknowledge my predecessor , Duncan Baker . he be an attentive and hard - work Member , and I wish he well in his future pursuit in industry . before he , Norman Lamb serve in this House for 19 year and leave an extraordinary legacy in the realm of mental health , a cause that he continue to be a dedicated advocate for . it be in no small part Norman ' s commitment to speak the truth to power and give a voice to the voiceless that make he such a hero to the people of North Norfolk , and which attract I to politic fully seven year ago , when I be first elect as a county councillor — and I draw member ' attention to the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in connection with my continue role there . I be immensely grateful for the trust that resident across North Norfolk have show in I : trust to represent they here , but also trust to play a part in the deep transformation we need in our politic if we be go to make positive change for society . this be an extraordinary place , but I can not do what I have promise to do for my constituent — we can not really do what we have be elect to do — without give it the shake - up that be long overdue . when people in the beautiful constituency of North Norfolk can not live well , in good accommodation , with access to transport and employment and healthcare as part of a vibrant society , it be all of we who be fail they . I be think of the former resident I meet on the train just last week who say to I , " I just want to come home , but there aren ' t the job and there isn ' t the transport . " I be also think about Kit , who make I my wonderful liberal Democrat tie , and about the need to protect the precious Norfolk broad that she live near ; about Lisa in North Walsham , who be live in constant anguish because of the supply risk to her life - dependent medication ; and about Don , a 99 - year - old in Sheringham who be pin his hope on a new kind of politic for the sake of his grandchild . the Bill introduce much - need reform of the House of Lords , which we Liberal Democrats of course support , but we know that it do not go far enough . we must establish a fully elect upper House — elect use a fairer voting system — as soon as possible . the House of Lords be only one part of our broken system , which need to see urgent , radical reform . the structure and organisation of government itself must evolve to be fit for the modern age , and that transformation must extend beyond government to the wide public service and administrative system that serve our citizen . continue with the current siloe structure of government be to ignore the technological advance of the past 50 year and fail to embrace the logarithmic advance in the future we be already live in . this evolution be about bring policy and service delivery close to the everyday life and need of people at every stage of their journey through life . the current structure be have a very real impact in rural area like mine , where our public service be in dangerous decline . Benjamin Court , a re - ablement centre in Cromer , have fall into the gap between two silo — social care , manage by the local authority , and health service , oversee by the NHS — lead to its closure . that be not to mention the desperate need for a properly network rural public transport service , which be key to enable access to everything from employment to healthcare , but it be out of those department ' scope and be instead leave languish at the bottom of the pile of priority by a near - bankrupt county council . these problem make the life of my constituent hard every day . we can not go on like this . but there be a solution : we can bring the design and delivery of service close to the need of citizen and there be plenty of precedent to go on here . in the industrial revolution , Thomas Edison make a profound contribution to rewire the way that industry be organise . prior to electricity generation , which he help to develop , there tend to be only one motor in a factory . industry have to be organise around a single source of power , usually a steam engine , with every machine that need power connect directly to the central drive shaft in the ceiling above . component could be make , yes , but they then have to be transport elsewhere and assemble , usually by hand . Energy be the central organise principle of industry , but electricity make it possible to pipe power to anywhere on the factory floor . it mean that machine could be place wherever they be need , become more precise , efficient and specialised , and it lead to mass manufacturing , with the product as the central organise principle of industry . over the past few year , we have go through another revolution that be potentially even big — the communication revolution . it be power not by the invention of electricity , but by datum . since the advent of the consumer web in the 1990 , people have come to expect a high degree of personalisation in their interaction with organisation and service . datum gather from a wide range of source — not just digital — be drive innovation and enable more tailored , proactive experience for user . this ability to be more pre - emptive and personalised do not even need people to be digitally enable . datum have enable the rewiring of industry , not around the production line or the product , but around the citizen , or user experience . that have cause profound change in the overall architecture of many modern organisation , but it have have limit impact on the way that Government and the state be structure . there be great innovation take place to try to integrate service and make they more patient or user centre , but without fundamental change in the underlie structure of power and public service , their effect will be limit . from tackle climate change and prevent sewage spill into the sea , to help people get work and get about — let alone get a dentist appointment — so much of the change this country badly need be not limit to one pillar of the state , but cross - cut different department . perhaps it be time to move away from the traditional silos of Secretaries of State for Education , for Health , and for Transport , and instead adopt a more citizen - focus model . Imagine Secretaries of State for the citizen experience , for wellbeing and prosperity , for child or for datum and privacy . if people in North Norfolk be to get the change they deserve to our rural health and social care provision , to access and prosper in the job of the future and to trust politician as the custodian of our natural environment , we need to be prepared to rewire the structure of politic and public service delivery around the need of the people they — and all of we in this House — serve . I call Maureen Burke to make her maiden speech . I congratulate all hon . member on their excellent maiden speech this afternoon . it be a great honour to stand in this place today to deliver my own maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for the community I be proud to call my home , Glasgow North East . it be also satisfy that my first contribution be as part of a debate about such an important matter close to my heart , as will become clear . as be customary , let I commence by put on record my sincere thank to my immediate predecessor in the constituency before its boundary be redrawn , namely Anne McLaughlin and David Linden , who care deeply about our community and have diligently serve our constituent . I also wish to briefly thank some other predecessor , who in their own way have be a source of inspiration and support over the year , among they the formidable Michael Martin , well know as a former Speaker of the House . it would have be interesting to hear what contribution Lord Martin of Springburn and Port Dundas would have make to today ' s debate on the relevance of hereditary peer in our democratic process , after all be himself a man make good through personal advancement , not by the quirk of birth , but through dedicated service and merit . more recently , the north - east of Glasgow be represent by Willie Bain and thereafter by Paul Sweeney . Willie Bain and I go back a long way . in fact , he be the person who show I the rope at my first door - knock session . Willie ' s sharp legal mind serve he well as a shadow Food Minister and later as a shadow Scotland Office Minister . he be a stalwart for his community , but on a more personal level , he have always be a great mentor and a source of advice , and that be why I be proud to call he my friend . Paul , who continue his public service as a Member of the Scottish Parliament , be a zealous champion of the build environment of our native Glasgow . as Paul allude to in his maiden speech in this place in 2017 , he be another example of how the Labour movement have offer opportunity for the advancement of working - class people through education over the past century . above all , I wish to pay tribute to one former member who not only fight hard for my community and deliver change , but , more than anyone , encourage I into the world of politic : Margaret Curran . I work as a caseworker for Margaret . her commitment , drive and determination to improve the life of those she serve have a large influence on my political awakening . she must have see in I a like - minded spirit who care passionately about those we serve , because it be her guidance and encouragement that lead I on the road to become elect to Glasgow city council in 2012 , and now to this distinguished place . but my political journey start much early . the seed of my political awareness be sow within my community and through my family . I grow up in Easterhouse and have live all my life in the north of Glasgow — an area , like many part of my home city , with an abundance of beauty . it be represent not only by the breathtake splendour of Hogganfield loch , but by the countless community and individual who daily go above and beyond to help those in need and improve the amenity within our community . there be organisation such as the Cranhill Development Trust ; Rosemount Lifelong Learning ; Denmilne Action Group , a collective of Easterhouse resident who have transform their community through tackle litter and neglect green space ; St Paul ' s Youth Forum ; Provan hall house — a medieval building date back to the 1470 and arguably one of Glasgow ' s old building , it have recently be renovate under the stewardship of the partnership task with its full restoration , which I have the honour of chairing — and the Springburn alive and kicking project , which be an excellent support in break down social isolation for many elderly resident . those be but a few of our wonderful organisation . my utmost thank go to those people and community for selflessly care and look out for each other , and for have place their trust in I . without they , I would not be here , and I will work tirelessly for they every single day . in short , the real beauty of my constituency lie in its people . ultimately , to paraphrase the city of Glasgow ' s unofficial motto , it be the people of Glasgow North East that make it such a wonderful place . as I be prepare for this speech , I think a lot about my family — my husband , daughter and grand - child , who be all my personal rock , but also my parent and my sibling , especially my young brother David , who sadly pass away a couple of year ago due to pancreatic cancer . as the illness progress , he be ask to take part in new medical trial . although he know that his diagnosis be too far advanced for he to benefit from the trial , he do not hesitate to participate , as he hope that his contribution would help other face a different outcome in their own cancer journey . David bear his journey with a quiet , resolute dignity to the end . his selfless example and dignity will always remain the benchmark for how I will conduct myself as the voice for my constituent in this place . like many of my constituent , I grow up in a typical working - class Glasgow household — a big family , a small home , but lot of love . that begin with my parent . sadly , both my parent suffer from tuberculosis , force my eld sibling and I to leave school at an early age without qualification in order to seek employment to become the family ' s breadwinner . however , in my late 30 , I have the chance to take an IT course at John Wheatley college that give I the opportunity to change my life . it be only fitting that this significant milestone in my life be make possible at a college name after yet another of my predecessor , who do so much to improve social housing in our country under our first Labour Government . education and further education be a route out of poverty . it give you a sense of achievement , self - belief and the confidence that anything be possible . education , no matter at what age , can be a catalyst that set you off on a journey that you could never have imagine — in my case , a journey from the factory floor to the Palace of Westminster . I be live proof that no matter your social background , with the right opportunity and access to education , encouragement , hard work and determination , together with a vision show by a progressive government — like the current one — who have the very good interest of our people at heart , anyone can succeed and achieve their personal goal . that bring I back to the topic of this debate : the removal of the last of the hereditary peer from our Parliament and from democracy itself . those remain 92 peer stand in direct contrast to I and my constituent . opponent of these change often say that remove those peer will mean lose experience , but to they I would say : I agree that this Parliament need more knowledge and understanding of the world , but that should not come from an elitist class with a biased view of the world . instead , that experience should come from a Parliament that be genuinely representative of modern and diverse Britain , draw from people such as my constituent , who have sincere struggle , hope and aspiration . I hope that my presence in this place and the removal of the hereditary peer from the other place will help to do that . I now wish to address my constituent at home directly . I be forever grateful for the trust you have place in I as your representative in the House of Commons . I will spend every day of the term of this Parliament fight for you , be the voice for those who have feel disenfranchised , and I will always do what I believe be good for our community . I will work across this House , where possible , to raise awareness of injustice and fight for equality , and I will never lose sight of your priority and the duty you have give I to serve you . after a decade and a half of social and economic decline , we must recognise that the challenge that lie ahead for this new Labour Government be vast . however , I be convinced that with their ambitious and exciting programme of change lay out in the recent King ' s Speech , this Government will succeed in deliver economic stability , growth and social cohesion , as well as provide employment and educational opportunity and a sense of renew hope that life will change for the well — not just for the privileged few , but for all . it be a real pleasure to follow the hon . member for Glasgow North East ( Maureen Burke ) . I listen with great interest to her personal journey and her remark about the transformative power of education , and she give a very touching tribute to her brother , which I be sure the whole House appreciate . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) , whose speech be a tour de force around his constituency and all the thing he hope to achieve in this Parliament . I wish he personally all the good for his time in this place . I thank the other member who make maiden speech : the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) , for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) and for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) . I say to the hon . member for Knowsley that if she get the deck out again , we will see if we can get the Deputy Prime Minister to come and join she ; and to the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire that it be maybe not good to tick off your dad in the Chamber — that be a little tip as the hon . member go forward in this parliamentary session . the first thing we have to try not to do when we consider the Bill be laugh . we have to try not to laugh out loud at the sheer ridiculousness of consider in 2024 whether place should be reserve in our legislature for a curious subset of a particular class of person , base on birthright . we have to try to stifle the guffaw that accompany the fact that a modern , complex , industrial , advanced democracy such as the United Kingdom can still have baron , duke , earl and various other aristocrat decide the law of the land because they be their father ' son . they secure that right in medieval time , perhaps because one of their ancestor win a decisive battle . this be parliamentary participation define by the " Game of Thrones " principle , in which the great house of olde England or olde Britannia knock seven shade of whatever out of each other for the right to run the country by breed . in some way , they be our own Baratheons and Targaryens , but without the fun , the dragon and the box office appeal . it be time to break the wheel . for those down the corridor , winter must be come . there be no other legislature in the world that come close to have people there through birthright , save perhaps the Senate in Lesotho , where I believe there be still place reserve for the tribal chief . that be the sort of company we keep . my other initial main thought about the Bill be : be this it ? we have hear about other thing to come , and have be tell that we should be patient because other Bills will be introduce . we have hear that from the Labour party for 100 year . for more than 100 year , Labour have promise to abolish the House of Lords , but there it sit , big and more bizarre than ever , await the arrival of the new Labour Lords . where be the brownian vision of a senate of the region and nation ? where be the " almost federalism " that we in Scotland be promise during the independence referendum ? it be certainly not in the Bill . this meagre rubbish have not even get the credibility to call itself a reform . we will probably have to wait about the same amount of time that have elapse since the baron and earl win those decisive battle for the Labour party to introduce meaningful reform . we be get not abolition of the House of Lords , but the long grass from the Labour party in this Parliament . a consultation be about to be embark upon as Labour prevaricate once again . nobody in this country believe that the Labour party be remotely sincere about abolish the House of Lords . from the contribution we have hear so far , no one can believe that Labour Members be in favour of genuine reform of the House of Lords . even the watering down of the watering down have be water down , as the proposal for a mandatory age limit of 80 for House of Lords Members have be drop . that happen because the Government find that they be disproportionately hit by the proposal ; their cohort in the House of Lords be old than that of the Conservatives . it be no wonder that few people take they seriously . what we have down the corridor be an embarrassment , an unreformable laugh stock , a plaything of Prime Ministers and the personification of a die establishment that represent another age . with all its ridiculous cap - doff deference , it represent almost the exact opposite of the value of my country . I be so proud that my party will never put anybody in that red - leather - upholster , gold - plate Narnia . while we can laugh at the hereditarie , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) and other Conservative Members be quite right to point to the ridiculousness of have 26 place reserve for Church of England bishop . we be the only legislature in the world that have place reserve for cleric other than the Islamic Republic of Iran . we can take comfort from the fact that the Archbishop of Canterbury be not go to embark on some sort of religious jihad , but what strange company to keep . if there be an intra - parliamentary union of serve cleric , it would be exclusively comprise Church of England bishop and ayatollah . it be not even the hereditarie or the Church of England bishop that concern I most . the group that concern I most in the House of Lords be the appointee — the donor , the crony and the placeman who end up with a role in run our country and make the law of this land because of prime ministerial patronage . People have a place in our democracy whose only qualification seem to be an ability to give substantial amount of money to one of the three major establishment political party in this House . we have evolve a legislature that be at least partly design by one person : the Prime Minister decide who have the opportunity to take a role in run this country by appointment , base on list draw up by he and other british party leader . no other party leader or Head of State have this power anywhere in the world . it be a prerogative that would make a tinpot dictator in a banana republic blush , yet we on these Benches lecture the develop world about good politic and democracy . the temptation be to stuff the Chamber full of friend and the politically useful . it be a place to reward the servile , thank the time - server and compensate the downgrade . only this week , we be consider such an example ; there be talk of Sue Gray end up with a place in the Lords as some sort of compensation for her sack . I suppose that when she go down there , she will get an ermine coat to accompany the envoy ' s ostrich feather for when she visit she most northern territory , Scotland , as the british envoy . already , her loyal subject be practise their haka to welcome their new envoy when she make that journey north . to see how bad thing could get , we need only remember Boris Johnson ' s list , which be full of friend , donor and former staff — a list that could not be more gratuitous . notionally , there be a House of Lords Appointments Commission , but it be an utterly toothless body that Boris Johnson simply ignore . it have do nothing to stop the accumulation of crony and donor : 68 out of 284 nomination from political party between 2013 and 2023 be political donor hand over £ 58 million to the political party , and 12 of those appoint give over £ 1 million . that be the price during " cash for honour " in the early 2000 . we might think inflation would at least be factor in when it come to get a place in the House of Lords , but not a bit of it : the go rate be still £ 1 million . " cash for honour " lead to one of the most dramatic police investigation during the 2005 to 2010 Parliament , when a sit Prime Minister be question by the police under caution . some of his staff be actually arrest . we might think that , after all that , the establishment party would be a little more circumspect , but not a bit of it ; the cash keep come in , and the peerage keep get roll out . even as recently as 2021 , I ask the Metropolitan police to investigate the Conservative party when we find that 22 of the Conservatives ' big financial contributor have be make member of the House of Lords in the past 50 year . this government have no plan whatsoever to do anything about the appointee in the House of Lords , save to make more of they . one of the reason we be get this Bill so early in this Parliament — the Conservatives be possibly right about this — be to clear the place out , so that the Labour party can put in more of its donor , crony and place man . it be make sure that there be space available , and that the other place do not look so big . the House of Lords be the most absurd , ridiculous legislature anywhere in the world . famously , it be second in size only to the National People ' s Congress of China . bloated , ermine - coat , never be vote — it be the antithesis of everything we know about democracy . increasingly embarrassing , probably corrupt and certainly rife for all sort of abuse , it be an institution whose time have surely come . we put forward a reason amendment to the Bill , because we want to hold the Labour party to its historical commitment to abolish the House of Lords . unfortunately , that amendment be not select , but there will be opportunity as the Bill go through the House to come back to the issue . I say to the Government , " yes , bring forward your step - by - step incremental change , but what the general public want be meaningful action on the House of Lords . " a YouGov poll out yesterday show that the vast majority of the british people no long want the House of Lords . they specifically and defiantly want it reform . it be not good enough continue to pass the buck for another 100 year ; something have to be do . I say to Labour , " pick up Gordon Brown ' s report , for goodness ' sake , and have a look at what he say . " the Labour Government should try to enact some meaningful reform . who know ? it may even make they popular again . it seem to be what the public want . this could be something that they do that the public would actually genuinely support . we have wait century for action from the Labour party and we have get next to absolutely nothing . now be the time for action . no more prevarication — take real action , and get deal with that place down the corridor . this be a simple Bill with a simple objective , and I commend the Minister for bring it to the House . I thank the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) for her cross - party support for this Bill , as it be vital that measure of significant constitutional impact have support from across the House . I wish to make three main , largely straightforward , point , which will tackle head - on the amendment table by the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) and for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) . first , I will touch on the constitutional aspect of the Bill , then , secondly , the part it play in rebuild trust in our politic , and finally I will address the objection raise by Opposition Members , include the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) . on the constitution , the continued existence of hereditary peer in the upper Chamber be an unsustainable anachronism in the year 2024 and a clear affront to modern democracy . we must remember that we be talk about 92 member in the other place who , for life , be able to legislate , merely by accident of birth . they do not owe their role to their ability , and they be unaccountable . that be not to denigrate the hard work of hereditary peer , but we must be clear : we have a farcical situation whereby the continued existence of the hereditarie lead to by - election in the second Chamber that be possibly the only by - election where the entire electorate can easily fit into the back of a taxi . remove the last remain peer be a clear manifesto commitment from this Government this year . this change will dramatically improve the way that Parliament reflect the country , and it will reform an upper Chamber that have grow out of all proportion to this place . too much of the debate today have be about Burke , Bagehot and romantic Conservatism and not enough about democratic accountability , legitimacy and representation . I hear Tory radical talk about their zealous ambition for reform of the upper Chamber , so it be astounding that there be no mention whatsoever in the conservative party manifesto of House of Lords reform . that take I on to my second point . it be vital that we rebuild trust in our politic by make sure that our parliamentarian be representative and accountable , and that transparency be at the forefront of our dealing . the continued existence of hereditary peer in the other place be in stark contrast to each of these value . on representation , there be 88 hereditary peer : 45 conservative , 33 Cross Benchers , four labour , four Liberal Democrats and two non - affiliated . their political composition in no way reflect the view of the country at large . the average age — I must stress that this be the average — of member of the upper Chamber be 71 . the average age of people in the country be 40 . indeed , 324 member of the second Chamber will be age age 80 or over on 1 June 2029 . let we be clear : there be no female hereditarie ; not one . on their accountability , hereditarie be elect by their peer , which lead to the possibility of a by - election with an electorate of three , as my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) mention . that be three peer decide who else have the opportunity to legislate in this Parliament for life . speak to the objection from those on the Opposition Benches , the amendment from the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) lament that the Bill do not abolish the other place in its entirety . we hear the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) mention that . let I say to they that reform of the other place have always be piecemeal . to that end , I welcome this measure as a swift initial reform , and I take heart from the comment make by Lord Khan of Burnley , parliamentary under - Secretary of State in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , who confirm on 23 July that the Government be commit to other reform , include a mandatory retirement age , a participation requirement and , importantly , reform of the mean by which peer be appoint , as well as an alternative second Chamber that be representative of the region and nation . that be precisely the ambitious agenda for the other place that I wish to see . as a north - west MP , an anti - corruption specialist with more than a decade of experience and a member of the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax , I reassure the House that I firmly believe that all those welcome step will not only modernise the upper Chamber but ensure that the mean by which individual be appoint to the other place be make more transparent . on the amendment table by the right hon . member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) , let I say that this Bill be not about avoid scrutiny of the Government or the work of this House . I and many of my colleague value the work do by our colleague in the other place , and I remind he and conservative Members that when the House of Lords Act 1999 pass through this place 25 year ago , the retention of the 92 hereditarie be " interim … until the second stage of House of Lords reform have take place . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 30 March 1999 ; Vol . 599 , c . 207 . ] indeed , remove the hereditarie would have a minimal impact on the overall political composition of the upper Chamber . we have see those on the conservative Benches blow hot and cold , demand radical reform while at the same time ask for caution . let we be clear : this Bill must be the first in a number of step towards modernise our politic in this place . the Bill be a manifesto commitment for which there should be no unnecessary delay in move it through the legislative process . I be astounded to hear the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) mention that hereditary member in the upper House do not form part of a privileged elite . that simply would not wash on the street of Bolton West . we be talk about earl , viscount , duke and marquess who be there to legislate for life simply by dint of their birth . this vital reform will ensure that working across Parliament be drag kick and scream into the 21st century . I commend the Bill to the House . I start my contribution today by thank our colleague in the House of Lords for their work and public service in their vital role scrutinise and edit the legislation that we put together in this place . prior to my first election in 2019 , I do not know that much in depth and detail about the working of the House of Lords and its value to our parliamentary system . in the past five year , I have see a House of Lords that have be effective , use the expertise that it draw upon , in hold up legislation and ensure that it work and that we make good decision , lead to good law for our country go forward . it be important to recognise the contribution that Members of the House of Lords make and continue to make , and we thank they for that . it be important that we have a strong second Chamber , but that do not mean there be no need for reform . I very much support reform of the House of Lords . the hon . member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) make comment in his speech about unaccountability ; in a sense , the fact that most Lords be appoint as life peer because of their expertise or the work they have do mean that their accountability be what get they there in the first place , and the fact that they be unaccountable give they a degree of freedom in ensure that we make the good law . I support the Government ' s Bill to remove the 92 hereditary peer , all of whom be man and retain a role in legislate because of their birth . this be very much not a criticism of those peer . I have have the pleasure of work with many , and with one , Viscount Craigavon , particularly closely . over the year he have do incredible work with the all - party parliamentary group for Sweden and for Finland , of which I have be chair or vice - chair . although I support the Bill , it take a ham - fiste approach to reform . if it be go to be do , do it properly . the idea that it be go to stay narrow and that this will be a quick fix to move thing forward be , give the scope and depth of the debate , for fantasist . on further reform , I absolutely do not support an elect upper Chamber , which I think would cause all sort of problem , not least in term of parliamentary supremacy . the life appointment add real value , as see in the current and previous Parliament . there be people like Sir Patrick Vallance , who be now a Labour Minister and be previously chief scientific adviser . he be know for his work on covid and I look forward to see his work in the other place . Lord Harrington be bring in as a Minister in response to the ukrainian refugee crisis , and he respond to the difficult challenge in that respect and help to provide support . Lord Cameron be bring in as Foreign Secretary — my , do we not wish we have Lord Cameron as Foreign Secretary now ? most recently , the Labour Government bring in Baroness Poppy Gustafsson as an investment Minister , give their lack of business expertise and experience on the Front Bench . I thank the Baroness for help to support the Labour Government with regard to the need of business . we should consider the number in the House of Lords . we should look at how much people attend and participate . we should look at the funding . we should look at the retirement age , at the composition and at whether there should be a role for religious representation . as be set out in the reason amendment , which I shall support , measure to modernise and reform the House of Lords should be take now . this be a miss opportunity , but I hope it will not turn out to have be , because once we have pass second Reading and the Bill go to Committee , we be go to see amendment table by , interestingly , Opposition Members , by the sound of it , that will uphold the Government ' s manifesto commitment , because they be be so timid in what they be try to achieve . rather than prioritise their need to be see to be do something , the Government need to start learn to do thing right . I welcome the new Government ' s step to reform the other place . nearly 30 year on from the change enact under the previous Labour Government , I be pleased to see this one finish the job when it come to hereditary peer . as colleague have point out , they be a fundamental anachronism in our constitution that undermine the legitimacy of not only that place but this place as well . for that entire time , in vote after vote , individual have be make their impact on legislation not with a democratic mandate but solely because of their ancestry . it be a principle that can not stand . I share the disbelief of some colleague at the suggestion by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) that a focus on or obsession with the democratic principle be narrow - minded . I be afraid that be the sort of talk we would have expect in the victorian era , at the time of the Great Reform Act . it be from another time and place . the Bill take another much - need step towards the democratisation of our Parliament . I appreciate from the amendment table that some would like to have see a repeat of the 1649 English republican Act of Parliament that abolish the other place entirely in one fell swoop , proclaim that " the House of Lords be useless and dangerous to the people of England . " I hasten to add that most of we today have too much respect for the hard work of member of the Lords to share those sentiment . this reform be progress . after 14 year , the Conservatives leave the other place a bloated mess — as have be point out , the second large parliamentary assembly in the world , behind only China ' s National People ' s Congress , and the only second chamber in the world that be large than the first . in 1999 , when the last Labour Government remove the vast majority of hereditary peer , some say that the one remain be the stone in the shoe to encourage further reform and democratisation . I be encourage that the Minister say that , while remove the stone , they be already think about change the shoe . it be high time that the public have a say in who vote on law pass in their name . election give mandate to make law , not birthright or patronage . ordinary people vote for and remove people when they want . I be proud to have stand , as be many colleague , on a manifesto that call for a complete overhaul of the other place , include make it more representative of the nation and region that make up our great country . there be many other thing that our constitution need reform on . I need to put on record my belief that this should be the start of a journey to great electoral reform . although the franchise have be expand , with first past the post it be still too restrictive . voter should be able to change the outcome of election every time they go to the poll but , unfortunately , too many be trap in constituency where their vote for this place still do not count . I have much respect for member of the other place , whatever their background , for the diligence with which they carry out their duty . they act as a bulwark in recent year as conservative government play fast and loose with the constitution , with one hand clutch the prerogative of the sovereign and the other challenge the fundamental independence of the judiciary — that be not long ago . the work of scrutiny and constitutional guardianship can and should be do by a Chamber of the people that the electorate have have a say in choose . the Bill be an important step towards that . it be mature , sensible and overdue , and I commend the Government for bring it forward speedily . I be a big fan of reform , and I detect , with the exception of one or two member , appetite for reform of the House of Lords . but if the Government be go to do a job , they should do it properly . the Government , who often lament have wait 14 year to come back to power , have have plenty of time to get themselves organise and ready for the reform of the House of Lords . some of we of a certain age remember the last reform 25 year ago . the Paymaster General say early that this be just phase 1 ; no , this be phase 2 . I can not wait 25 year for phase 3 . we want to get on with it , and the country want to get on with it . I think that the country will appreciate this phase of reform , but they will say , " hang on , Prime Minister . the Labour party stand on a platform of remove cronyism . " as other member have rightly say , the country be sick and tired of the cronyism of cloth of ermine . it feel like cash for cloth . we be do with it . we have have enough of it . we want this sort . this be an opportunity for the government : if they be not go to do it at this phase , they have a Parliament of four year ahead . will they commit , as a Government , to go from phase 2 to phase 3 ? they can have the debate around the country about what the House of Lords should look like , but I urge they , on behalf of ten of million of people who want proper reform of the House of Lords , to get on with it , please , and not to wait another 25 year . I be grateful to be call in this important debate . I have a little bit of experience of this issue , have serve as a special adviser in the House of Lords , work with the now Leader of the House of Lords when she be on the Opposition Front Bench . I also work with Baroness Stowell of Beeston and as special adviser to Baroness Evans of Bowes Park , as well as with some hereditary peer , include Freddie , Lord Howe and Patrick , the Earl of Courtown . it be important to acknowledge , as many member have , the service that all member of the House of Lords give to our country . minister perhaps do not understand exactly where I be come from when I intervene early , but my point have be make by member from across the Opposition Benches . why go for piecemeal reform when the Government have the space to ask the country what it want ? why not put something forward with the legislative time available , as my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) say ? we could have a proper debate , as the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) say , on the future of the country . the right hon . Gentleman have make a number of contribution this afternoon and I have listen to they all , but I be not clear whether he support the removal of hereditary peer from the House of Lords . perhaps before he conclude his speech he could put it very clearly on the record whether he support the principle of remove hereditary peer . I thank the hon . member for his question . I do support their removal , but as part of a broad package of measure . I think that be the issue at stake today which member on the Opposition Benches be concern about . this piecemeal reform , which will remove people who be there by an accident of birth , will leave people in the House of Lords who be also there by accident or , in the case of bishop , by faith . it will leave the issue the public be perhaps most concerned about , which be pure patronage . those two issue have be leave totally to one side in the speech make by Government Members . if we be to look at this issue properly , we need to look at it in the round . we have have piecemeal change over the last few year . I be work in the House of Lords when voluntary retirement be introduce . that be build on many measure over the year , include the Life Peerages Act 1958 , which be pass by a Conservative Government . if we be go to consider change the situation in the House of Lords and what it be go to be , other convention will be call into question . surely it would be well to deal with the whole issue and get it right , than to have to legislate two or three time , or make further change down the line ? why not get something that the whole House and the country can have a proper debate on and reach proper agreement , and then legislate in one piece ? I be take by the right hon . Gentleman ' s talk about get it right , which be a phrase also use by the previous speaker , the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) . they both suggest take the time to get it right , but surely that be what the Government be commit to do . the Government be commit to the removal of hereditary peer , as be make very clear in the Labour party manifesto that be so widely support across the country . wide reform of the House of Lords should surely be subject to consultation , not just with people in this place but around the country . surely , if we be to get this right , we need to take time over the consultation . I totally agree with the hon . member . it be interesting that the Bill have not be subject to the pre - legislative scrutiny that would normally come forward , because of the broad implication for the second Chamber . I want it do properly , as a full package . I do not think slice - by - slice reform be what the country want . I have some sympathy with those on the Liberal Democrat Front Bench who see the Bill as a step in the right direction , but I fundamentally disagree with they . we need a full package of reform to see where we wish to end up . rise — rise — I will make a touch more progress before I take another intervention from the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , but I be happy to give way to my hon . friend . my right hon . friend be make some extremely valid point . I agree with he that if there be go to be change , it should be do altogether , but I be slightly concerned by the radicalism of this measure . I do not find that anybody on the doorstep in Romford actually want to make this such a big issue and radically change our constitution . do he find that in Billericay ? I certainly do not find it in Basildon and Billericay — or in Romford when I visit it with my hon . friend , or , indeed , in other seat across the country — and I think that our constituent will be slightly baffle . when it come to a big piece of constitutional reform , why should this Government want to come forward with , potentially , a multiplicity of different Bills throughout the current Parliament , rather than put something to the public to have a look at now , and then have a look at it right at the end ? what constituent have be mention in recent week and month be their concern about the winter fuel payment or about what might be in the Government ' s new Budget , particularly the job tax , which they fear will hit job throughout the country . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I do not want to take up too much of the House ' s time , so I be try to reduce the number of intervention that I take . my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) hit the nail on the head when he say that this be a proper miss opportunity , but my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) make some important point . as he say , when we legislate we have to do so carefully , because we be fundamentally change the nature of what we be look at . proper reform have be want by generation of politician on both side of the House , but particularly those in the Labour party . I do not understand why at this stage , with such a large majority and with time on their side , the Government be not seek to put those change through properly . rise — I will give way again . I thank the right hon . Gentleman . perhaps I can help he . as a former special adviser in the House of Lords , he will know that carry out reform in that House be incredibly complex . there appear to be a general consensus across all party in this House on the eradication , or rather the expulsion , of the hereditary peer . if it be part of a large combine bid , the right hon . Gentleman would risk lose that principle , because there would be more for we to fall out over and disagree on . inevitably , his party would vote against it in Committee and on Third Reading , which would leave the whole package potentially at risk . I think that the hon . Member be miss my point . we have to see this as part of a package . Lord Irvine speak about it in 1999 . the hereditary peer be be keep there as the stone in the shoe , and should not be remove until the wide reform be settle . the Government have a very large majority in this House . they can certainly get stuff through if they wish , and I urge Ministers to consider that comprehensive reform . I understand what the hon . Member be say — why not do it slice by slice ? — but I think that the entire point of the hereditarie be there shine a light on the great issue we be face in the House of Lords , as be mention early by , for instance , my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) when he be talk about the religious member of the Lords . if we be go to do a package , let we do a proper package . it also concern I that , have propose a retirement age in their manifesto , the Government be apparently not seek to legislate on that now . why not ? the scope of the Bill in relation to membership of the House of Lords be clearly wide enough for the purpose . in the canadian upper House , for instance , the retirement age be 75 , and in this country there be a mandatory retirement age of 75 for judge . I should be interested to hear from Ministers how they can justify a mandatory retirement age of 75 for those who interpret the law , but can not justify it for those who make the law — not democratically elect , as member well over that age have be in this House , but appoint . that be where the similarity with judicial appointment come in . if the Bill be pass , Members of the House of Lords will be purely appoint . obviously , there be already a retirement age for Lords Spiritual . the right hon . Member have make repeat reference to the grand package of House of Lords reform that he would like to see . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) have already highlight the problem , but we have see it historically . in the coalition Government , the Liberal Democrats put forward their historic package of reform , and it be the Conservatives who put the bullet in it , because they do not agree with everything in it . surely it be much well to get do what we all agree on than to present a package of reform that end up die at the hand of those who disagree with it . the hon . Member make an interesting point . I know there have be fracture in Downing Street recently , but I do not think that anybody would suggest that the Labour party , with a majority of over 170 , be a coalition in the same way that the Conservative - Lib Dem coalition be between 2010 and 2015 . the Government have the time and space to introduce change . the key point be that it have to be part of a package , which be what Lord Irvine say in 1999 . our majority be 174 , but who ' s count ? as far as I can tell , the conservative party ' s manifesto do not mention House of Lords reform — I may have miss it , so I apologise if it do mention that . could the right hon . member please tell I the conservative thinking on House of Lords reform ? a big package of House of Lords reform have be mention , but I be not any clear about what that might entail . read the 1999 debate on the House of Lords reform that be push forward by the Blair Government , I be strike by the fact that many Conservative Members oppose that reform on the basis that it do not go far enough . be the call for further reform actually a smokescreen to do nothing and , therefore , to preserve the hereditary principle ? all of we , include the right hon . member , would agree that we should eliminate that principle . what we be discuss today be a policy of the Government . my party be in opposition , because its manifesto be reject by the public at the last general election . we be discuss a policy of the Government and what be in the manifesto on which the hon . Gentleman stand . it will be interesting to see whether he and other will back the manifesto on which they stand if amendment be table by the Opposition . we will have to see about that over the come week . will the right hon . member give way ? not again . currently , member of the House of Lords be there by birthright or appoint by God , as it be , or the Prime Minister . the Prime Minister be go to pull out the hereditary peer , so it will just be he and God appoint people if this legislation go through unchallenged . put even more power in the hand of the Executive — they have a majority of 174 , as the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) say , although some of their member come and go at the moment — be a really dangerous thing to do , and we be not look at the comprehensive package of reform that be promise . Labour Members have talk about thing that happen 25 year ago , when I — even though I might not look it — be still in short trouser . we need to reflect on the fact that this be a very different time from then . I hope that those on the Government Front Bench will consider what those on the Opposition Front Bench have mention today and look at the broad package , rather than look at this issue in isolation , because they have the time and space to do so . I think the public would like to see a proper package bring forward , and the Government should concentrate on the people ' s priority , which be the cost of living and taxation . the House of Lords play an important part in our legislative process . it revise legislation and , just occasionally , cause we in this House to think again . I support reform of the House of Lords , but I want that reform to lead to a well upper Chamber . this Bill do the opposite . in 1999 , the Labour party seek to remove all hereditary peer from the House of Lords . to get its legislation through , it strike a compromise with the upper House . that compromise — the Weatherill amendment — enable 92 hereditary peer to remain until the Government come forward with a comprehensive plan for House of Lords reform . the then Lord Chancellor , Lord Irvine , say that " a compromise in these term would guarantee that stage two would take place , because the Government with their great popular majority and their manifesto pledge would not tolerate 10 per cent . of the hereditary peerage remain for long . but the 10 per cent . will go only when stage two have take place . so it be a guarantee that it will take place . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 30 March 1999 ; Vol . 599 , c . 207 . ] twenty - five year later , the House of Lords be unreformed . despite win majority in 2001 and 2005 , the last Labour Government do nothing to bring forward stage two of House of Lords reform . whatever have happen in the year and decade go by , this be the question before we now : a step forward to help reform the House of Lords . we do not claim that we in this House be perfect ; we only make step towards it . the step before we today be a simple one , and one that I think that no Member of this House can disagree with . it be that no son should have a place in the Lords , by right , because their father give it to they . that be what be before we , and surely the hon . Gentleman can agree with that . therein lie the problem , in that we now want to talk about stage 2 . although the Minister promise a second stage of reform , that be exactly what you promise 25 year ago , and then you do nothing . our fear be that you will get rid of the hereditary peer and that the issue of further reform will then get delay because there be never enough parliamentary time and actually , there will never be a stage 2 . put quite simply , we be cynical about the promise that be be make . we think you will take the hereditary peer and then do nothing . rise — order . just before the intervention be take , I must mention the reference to " you " . surely you be not respond to a question that I have just ask ; you be speak to the Chair . please continue , Sir Ashley . I be happy to give way to the hon . member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) . would the hon . Gentleman care to comment on the 14 year of Tory Administration , which be full of reform zeal and could have transform this country in so many way , yet fail my country so much . I just want to let the House know that no family in Central Ayrshire , other than potentially the distant descendant of the Earl of Eglinton and Winton , might support hereditary peer remain in the other place . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will vote with we tonight and begin this important step of reform . I would vote in favour of the removal of the hereditary peer as part of a package , but not so that the Government can remove they and then do nothing , which be what they do 25 year ago . I would like the Minister to explain how he believe his reform will improve the functioning of Parliament . who will the Government put in place of the hereditary peer ? more former mp , perhaps ? donor or trade union official ? perhaps some former councillor ? the upper House already have a surfeit of all the above . if we want an effective upper House , we need diversity of experience : perhaps some people who have work in the private sector or run a business could help the Front Bench . the upper Chamber have quite enough former politician without the Prime Minister appoint more people to buy he suit and glass . I be very much enjoy the speech by the hon . member . be he make an argument that the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , should not be entitle to an appointment list , and be he make a commitment on behalf of member of his own party that they will forgo any appointment that they be offer under this government ? I would not dare to answer on behalf of my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton . I fear that this Government be not motivate by a desire to improve the legislature , and that they have bring this measure forward for party political advantage . they want to be rid of the hereditary peer because 42 of they be conservative and only four be Labour . once they have drive this Bill through Parliament , their desire for further reform will cool just as rapidly as it do 25 year ago . I be wonder , give that there be now so few conservative Members of this Parliament after the recent general election , what proportion of the House of Lords the hon . Gentleman think should now be make up of Conservative Members . we be scrutinise the Government ' s proposal . that be the job of the Opposition . the Minister say in his opening speech that hereditary peer be indefensible , and I agree , but so be grant 26 bishop the right to vote in our legislature . for some reason , the Minister do not seem quite so opposed to their presence . could this be because , almost whatever the subject , the bishop can be rely upon to vote with the Labour party ? if he be consistent , he would want to remove the bishop as well as the hereditary peer , yet he be silent . the whole point of the remain hereditary peer , and their occasional inconvenient by - election , be that they be a constant reminder of the unfinished business of Lords reform . they be a reminder of the promise that Labour make 25 year ago , which have still not be fulfil . the reason Labour want to remove the remain hereditary peer be so that the reform can be forget . this be a bad bill . it weaken the upper House , it reduce scrutiny of the Executive , and it give more patronage to the Prime Minister . that be why I can not support it . I begin by declare an interest as my wife , the noble Baroness Evans of Bowes Park — although she do not always make I call she that — be a Member of the other place . she be also Leader of the House of Lords for more than six year , so I have perhaps have more dealing with member of the other place , include hereditarie , than most . as a result , I have a view about how our two house operate effectively in practice , rather than the somewhat theoretical perspective we have hear from some of the new member of this House . the House of Lords be an important revise Chamber , without the guillotine and time limit that be so common in our House , while recognise and respect the ultimate supremacy of this House . in do so , it can draw on the considerable knowledge and expertise of former defence chief , diplomat , scientist , engineer , businesspeople and , yes , those from whom this Bill seek to remove the right to sit as peer . the fundamental point , reflect in a number of contribution from Conservative Members and in the reason amendment , be that this Bill have be bring forward in isolation from wide reform . it ignore the convention that constitutional change be base on consensus , where possible , and it fail to provide time for a cross - party approach on wide reform . it be well describe as piecemeal and , as such , conflict with the commitment give in 1999 , at the time of the House of Lords Act , that the hereditarie would remain until wide reform come forward . well , there be no wide reform in this Bill . even the propose retirement age of 80 have be quietly drop . perhaps Ministers have realise the challenge of interfere with letter patent issue by the sovereign , or perhaps their timidity reflect the lack of consensus on the Government Benches about wide reform , as we see in response to Gordon Brown ' s proposal . such reform would have to consider the issue of give great power to the House of Lords and the impact this would have on the primacy of the Commons . they would have to consider the potential for legislative gridlock , the desirability of create more professional politician and , as many have mention , the rationale for retain guarantee place for bishop in the upper Chamber . those be just some of the question that comprehensive reform would need to address , and they require considerable cross - party consideration and analysis . no one would create the Lords today , but the system work . this rush legislation , which rather suggest a Government lack a substantive legislative programme , will remove considerable experience . it reveal a lack of knowledge of the contribution make by member of the House of Lords , such as my noble Friend Earl Howe , with whom I work closely when he be a Defence Minister . he have serve continuously on the Conservative Front Bench for 33 year , include 20 year as a Minister . it ignore the role of the usual channel — the Whips and the business manager — in seek to manage legislation at both end . the Earl of Courtown , who will be know to many for his eight year of distinguished service as a Government Deputy Chief Whip , now continue that role in opposition . he and Lord Ashton of Hyde navigate the choppy water of Brexit and covid in a House in which there be no conservative majority . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I would give way , but I be not sure that the hon . Lady have be here for most of the debate , so I will not . Earl Howe , the Earl of Courtown and Lord Ashton of Hyde be just three of the peer who bring great experience and ability to the other place . many of the peer who will be remove be Cross Benchers . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be not give way . finally , I want to say something about the commencement of this legislation . if pass unamended , the excepted peer will be unceremoniously boot out at the end of the Session in which the Bill be pass . after the service and commitment they have give to public life , surely it would be fair for they to remain there until the end of the Parliament . to conclude , before embark on constitutional reform , there should be a proper period of consideration . it be a sign of the complexity of reform of the House of Lords that previous effort have not attract the necessary consensus , but the answer be not to bring forward piecemeal reform , pretend it have no wide consequence . look at the other side of the Chamber , I see the coat of arm of our late , dear friend Sir David Amess , who be murder exactly three year ago today . he be a staunch defender of our tradition , our convention and our british constitution . if he be here , I have no doubt he would argue to protect the institution of the House of Lords . I will be do the same , and I be proud to do so . the english constitution be not something that can be draft today by a 21st century - style committee of expert . if we be to establish such a body , its product would be alien to we and offer far less respect and admiration than what we have today . indeed , our english constitution — [ interruption . ] our british constitution be our birthright and the envy of the world . it be like a fine , intricate oil painting , with brush stroke meticulously paint by generation upon generation over a millennium . our constitution depict a priceless image of the value , the character and the way of life of the british people . I believe we must cherish and defend it , not discard it so easily without careful thought and attention to what we be do . the hon . Gentleman talk movingly , compare our evolve and change constitution to art , but be the measure set out in the Bill not just the late in the evolution of that change constitution , which will make it ever well ? if we be to change our constitution so radically — I believe the Bill create a radical change — then that should be do with thought , care and attention , as well as consultation and careful consideration . as I point out to my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) early , I do not think this be an issue on the doorstep anywhere . during the general election campaign , I do not think anyone raise the issue as a serious matter they want we to deal with . there be so many other issue , yet we be rush to make a major constitutional change without give it due consideration . we share a deep intergenerational responsibility in this House that rest heavy on the Government of the day . we be the custodian of our nation and all that belong to it , and not its master . we have a responsibility to preserve our nation and its constitution — an obligation between those who have pass on , those who be live and those who be yet to be bear . that be the importance of the hereditary principle , something that member on the Government Benches , and indeed some on the Conservative Benches , fail to appreciate . Tony Blair ' s new Labour Government take a three - inch - wide paintbrush to remake this great work of art of generation in their own image . they start a programme of thoughtless destruction , from the removal of the law Lords from the other place , with the creation of the Supreme Court , a notion alien to our constitutional heritage , to the culling of independently minded — I say those word clearly , Madam Deputy Speaker — hereditary peer and the appointment of partisan placeman . it be no good for our constitution and it add nothing to the work of our Parliament . it now appear that today ' s Labour Government have recklessly come to finish the hatchet job on an ill - thought - out constitutional revolution in the name of so - call modernisation . the hon . Gentleman just make the point that the hereditary peer be a bastion of independence , and the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) say that many of the conservative peer be long - serve member of his party ' s Front Bench team . how can those two thing be reconcile ? I have work with member of the House of Lords over many of my 23 year in Parliament . they be not seek re - election , preferment or title . they be here to serve our country and to assist this place in make well law . all the hereditary peer and life peer — from all party — with whom I have have the privilege to work have always be there to serve . to discard that so easily without serious long - term consideration to the effect of do this be reckless . our constitution be the most vital part of our share british heritage , and the hereditary peer be an integral part of that , which can not be replicate by modern mean . yet the argument in defence of hereditary peer can not be base solely on history , however important that may be . from the Duke of Wellington , who have be mention , and the Duke of Norfolk , to the Earl Attlee , the Lord Northbrook , the Viscount Craigavon , who be also mention , and the Lord Bethell of Romford , the hereditary peer bring a wealth of intergenerational experience and knowledge to our Parliament . they have an inherit obligation and a duty to serve . they be also invaluable to our parliamentary democracy , hold the Government to account , scrutinise legislation and raise often forget issue of national importance . many hereditary peer be shine example of exemplary parliamentarian . if I follow the hon . member ' s argument correctly , be he say that he would he be in favour of reverse the compromise of 1999 and go back to have more hereditary peer in the House of Lords ? I do not object to the hereditary principle . I believe that hereditary peer play a vital part in the overall mix of the British Parliament . indeed , the hereditary principle be enshrine in our constitution via the monarchy itself . in fact , our Parliament be make up of the Crown , the House of Lords and the House of Commons . those who argue to discard the hereditary principle should beware that the Crown itself be in peril if we continue to go down this road — [ interruption . ] if I may continue , Madam Deputy Speaker , the removal of hereditary peer would be a grave loss to our Parliament and our country . it would be a purge of many substantial , independent voice that be immune to political patronage and work solely in the public interest for King and country . they do not seek to be popular or to win re - election ; they exist to serve our nation . it have be say that a fence should not be remove before we know why it be put up in the first place . labour would have do well to heed this lesson from its last period of governance . rush to change our try and test system without consider the full consequence of its action would be to commit an act of constitutional vandalism . why be the Government embark on this action ? what in God ' s name motivate they ? be it simply to eradicate dissent in the other place ? if so , this can be describe only as self - serve political radicalism . not content with a simple majority of 157 in the House of Commons — although I think that figure have go down now as the number of independent have rise — this Government seemingly aim to eradicate dissent in the upper House through this damaging legislation . the Bill entail the removal of Conservatives , Cross Benchers , Liberal Democrats and non - affiliate peer — but only a small number of Labour peer — who often provide the most substantial dissent to and constructive criticism of the Government ' s legislative proposal . worse still , I fear that the removal of the 92 hereditary peer be only the beginning . the next step would be the introduction of an age cap for membership , provoke an even more numerically significant second cull of dissent , enable Labour to pack the other place with political appointment and abolish any form of effective opposition in the upper House . the hon . Gentleman seem to be operate on the premise that all hereditary peer be Conservatives . why do he think that people with entrenched privilege be naturally conservative ? order . intervention be make by colleague who have be contribute and spend time in the Chamber and not just wander in ; the hon . Member get very lucky just then . Mr Rosindell , please go ahead . I say to the hon . Gentleman that it be quite the opposite . there be many member of the House of Lords — life peer and hereditary peer — who take the Conservative Whip but who frankly act like independent , do what they believe be in the interest of our country . that can be say for many on the labour side as well . he will find that there be many more rebellion and people vote in different way in Parliament in the Lords than in the Commons , because they be there to serve and they do not face re - election . for that reason , they be not subject to the usual pressure — lobbying , the Whips and all the rest of it — that we be all subject to , and that be why have that element be so important and be part of the mix that make up the success of our Parliament . will the hon . member give way ? I will — one last time . I thank the hon . gentleman for give in to my indulgence . this be an argument that could quite easily have be make during the passage of the original 1999 legislation : that the expulsion of the hereditarie would lead to a complete collapse of our scrutiny process . be he suggest — I do not believe he be — that since ' 99 and the removal of the other hereditarie , the House of Lords have not be fulfil its function properly ? that be certainly not how I would see the current House of Lords . if he do not believe that , surely remove the exist 92 will not have an impact on the scrutiny that he and I think be so important . we can not turn the clock back , but very many good people be eject in that first legislation under the Blair Government . the compromise be to keep the 92 there . I think that be a good compromise and I do not really understand the rush for change ; we should keep thing as they be . it be patently obvious that the Bill be a precursor for a wide and scandalous programme to weaken Parliament ' s ability to hold the Executive to account and ride roughshod over our try and test constitution . not only do the Bill open a slippery slope towards dissent - quelling , but it be an attack on the merit of the hereditary principle , which logically and inevitably lead to a fundamental undermining of the primary constitutional role of the monarchy itself . maybe there be some member on the Labour Benches who would like a republic , but I think the vast majority of british people would not want that , so to discard the hereditary principle be a very dangerous road to go down . I urge the House to consider with the utmost seriousness the weight of intergenerational custodianship upon our shoulder when we vote on matter such as this , which be of grave constitutional significance . the removal of hereditary peer from the House of Lords would eradicate from the proceeding of Parliament some of the wise and most dutiful servant of this great democratic institution . I believe the House should oppose this act of constitutional vandalism and continue to uphold the good and great convention and tradition that have provide our cherish island nation with stability , continuity and wisdom for so many generation . I thank the Paymaster General for introduce the Bill , which I will heartily support later tonight . the point be worth make that this be not a personal attack on the hereditary peer , nor be it political , and the make - up of the hereditary peer be irrelevant . this be about the principle of have accountability in our decision maker . the Liberal Democrat constitution begin by state that " no - one shall be enslave by poverty , ignorance or conformity . " it be a humanitarian position to unencumber the hereditary peer from be disqualify from vote or stand in our election . we have hear some incredibly powerful maiden speech today , and I be honour to follow the hon . member for Glasgow North East ( Maureen Burke ) , for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) , for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) and for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) , as well as my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) , who will , I be sure , be an incredible champion for his constituent . I feel it be a humanitarian position to give the hereditary peer the ability to engage in the electioneering , the door - knock and the campaigning that build we as parliamentarian , understand the view of people on the doorstep and give we a more representative view of the people we represent , something that be currently deny to they . I feel that it be my responsibility to provide that pleasure to they . it be refreshing to have hear the ambition for reform from Conservative Members . I agree with the general principle that it be important that reform be broadly cross - party , and I look forward to work with they in the future to provide more transformative reform . do the hon . Gentleman understand why some people might have some cynicism about the appetite for reform among Conservatives , when some member talk about want a big package and other defend the hereditary principle in 2024 ? while I heartily endorse the desire for a big package , I share the hon . Gentleman ' s cynicism about the appetite for reform among Conservative Members . I also note the desire from the Conservatives not to lose the skill of those hereditary peer who contribute to our lawmaking . I make the point almost three hour ago that I see the opportunity for those peer to take some of the place soon to be vacate by Conservative Members who need to step down because they can not maintain their lifestyle . that may be one avenue for hereditary peer to continue to contribute . the primary aim of my speech be to urge the Government to go far , and I echo the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) at the beginning of the debate on the need to improve Parliament . again , some claim that they do not hear this on the doorstep , but perhaps they need to listen to their voter more closely . when I knock on door , the disenfranchisement , the disappointment and fury with the behaviour of the previous Government and politic in general , echo . the Bill be a step in the right direction to improve accountability and restore some of the respect that be trash by the previous Conservative Government . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that trust in politic be at a low point , in part because of the egregious failure of the Conservatives when in government . this be a small and initial step that we can take to start to increase trust in politic , and that be partly why my party win the election . I heartily agree . this be a step in the right direction , but I be reassure by the nod and assurance give early in the debate by the Paymaster General that more reform and further measure will come later in this Parliament . one measure that we should introduce , and which be relevant to the debate , be the capping of donation to political party . that would end the £ 3 million price tag that be put on a seat in the House of Lords by the previous Government , and would start to restore trust that those who be here to make our law be here on merit . the hon . member be be generous with his time . I understand his point , but do he recognise , as those of we who be good Fabians on the Labour Benches do , that there be value in incremental progress , and that the Bill ' s proposal should be welcome on their merit ? I agree 100 % . I expect to be able to champion this measure on the doorstep , and to boast about speak in this debate on make this incremental gain and remove the egregious historical anomaly still in our system . I give special thank to the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , who make the key , almost blockbuster , point about the gender imbalance among those who be eligible to become hereditary member in the other place , and about the sheer insanity of the hereditary peer cohort be entirely male . protect that astonishingly unequal status quo be utterly indefensible . I thank he for make that point , which should surely have end the debate on its own . I look forward to vote for the Bill ' s Second Reading tonight , but I implore the Paymaster General to bring forward as soon as possible further measure to reform the House of Lords . the Liberal Democrats will continue to act as a constructive opposition , as I hope we have do today , and to push for more radical proposal for reform of the House of Lords , some of which have be tease by the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) — I hope that I have pronounce his constituency right . I look forward to work with he to develop those plan . I hope that the measure before we will restore voter ’ trust , which the previous Government trash . I implore the House to support the Bill . rise — I call Chris Curtis to make a short contribution . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . no notice be give of a point of order , but go ahead . be there no etiquette in the House about somebody who have sit through the entirety of the debate be gazump in the calling list by somebody who have recently arrive ? thank you so much for point that out . unless colleague have be bob from the beginning , they be unlikely to be call — there be colleague on the Government back Benches who will not be call in this debate — but it be absolutely right that those belong to the party that form a majority in the House tend to be call early . you be most definitely on the list and will be call shortly . I call Chris Curtis to continue . I rise to make a few brief point in this incredibly important debate . the most important point — one that we have still not spend enough time discuss — be the basic one that people should not be in this place on the basis of the hereditary principle . it be incredibly important that we move away from that for a variety of reason , which I will come to . I will not pretend that the legislation go as far as many of we would like it to — although , at the moment , most of we Labour Members think that election be a pretty good way to decide thing . recently , while do a media interview , I be confront by comment from a Conservative Member of the other place who argue that hereditary peer be good for Parliament because it mean that there be more northerner in that Chamber . I be a proud northerner myself . do my more southern Friend agree that although regional proportionality be important , hereditary peer be not the way to achieve it ? we could say many thing about hereditary peer , but their be representative of the country as a whole be certainly not one of they . many of we Labour Members think that election be certainly good , and I hope there will be a point in the future when we can look at introduce they to the House of Lords , but in the meantime , there be no good argument for keep the hereditary principle . let I turn to the importance of trust in politic . I work in polling before I become an MP ; I speak to many people across the country , and unfortunately it be always amazing just how low trust in politic be . there be many reason for that , which I hope we will continue to work on throughout this Parliament — we be do some important work to address that lack of trust — but one of those reason have to be the knowledge that people can make it to Parliament not because of what they have do in life , because they represent their community and their country , or because they have a fantastic vision for what they want to do , but because of what womb they happen to be bear from . I do not think that be right , and it be one of the reason why we have see that lack of trust . my hon . friend make a key point . do he agree that when we have child in the Public Gallery , or when child from our constituency visit , it be simply impossible to defend to they the principle of hereditary peer in the 21st century ? that be certainly true , and it bring I to my next point . this Friday , I will visit Watling academy , a fantastic new school in my constituency , and will chat to child of many age who be get their important education . I want to look they in the eye and say that if they work hard , they can have any opportunity in this country — the opportunity to end up in any place . the hereditary principle work against that . we have hear many argument today from Opposition Members . we have hear that the Bill go too far , and that it do not go far enough . the truth be that it be a good piece of legislation , and we hope that we will have the opportunity to go far in future . give my hon . friend ' s expertise in polling , for the benefit of this House , could he shed any light on whether there be any public support for continue the hereditary principle ? I can not remember the exact number off the top of my head , but they round down to a very low number . from what I have hear in this debate , it seem that people who believe in the hereditary principle be vastly over - represent in this Chamber . we have hear that some people think the legislation be move too fast , and other that it have be move too slowly . the truth be that we have be talk about this issue for decade , if not century , and now be the right time to make this important change . this Bill be not the end of the conversation — it will go on for many year to come — but that be no reason why we should not make this important change today and get rid of the hereditary peer , create a more democratic , more representative place that can carry on make the important law that the country need we to make . I believe in take a positive approach to politic . not let the perfect be the enemy of the good be a good principle , and in that spirit , I welcome the Bill . however , I must confess that it be a pretty lukewarm welcome , because this Bill be not a really significant or radical step . effectively , it be a tweak . we could call it a bit of glorify admin , because it tidy up a thread that have be hang since 1999 . it do not tackle several of the other inequality and inconsistency in the composition of the House of Lords . member across this House have highlight some of those today , such as the presence of the bishop and the appointment of life peer , so while I welcome the Bill , there be huge room for improvement . House of Lords reform be absolutely long overdue . three hour or so ago , somebody reference Asquith in 1911 ; we have be wait a really long time . when the Minister introduce the Bill several hour ago , he reference the next step in the reform process , and I very much hope we do not have to wait 25 year — or , indeed , 113 year — to find out what those next step be . reform be also widely support , as the hon . member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) just say , and it be essential to improve the functioning of our democracy . by the way , there be many other way in which we could improve the functioning of our democracy , but let we focus on House of Lords reform today . when the Paymaster General introduce the Bill , he speak about a matter of principle for a Government commit to fairness and equality . he describe go step by step in the direction of reform . I challenge he to tell we what the next step be , to show we his working and his road map , and to assure we that we will not have to wait 25 or 113 year . rise — I will not give way , and I will explain why . like many other member , I have be wait and bob for hour to have a chance to speak — apart from the moment when I leave for a prearrange meeting with the Speaker . several member on both side of the House have intervene frequently , thus put other far down the speaking list . I know that the hon . member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) would like to speak . we need to know the next step in House of Lords reform . I agree that these be question of principle . the issue be not the individual who currently serve in the House of Lords , many of whom be hard - work and experience , and bring a lot of expertise and effort . that be not the point . the point be that unelected lawmaker should not be a thing . People who make law should be elect . that be what democracy be about . it be a fundamental principle , and I find it extraordinary that the Bill do not adopt it . the Government be sometimes a little selective in apply the principle for which they nail their colour to the mast . on the principle of unelected people not make law , why do we still have bishop and life peer ? there be no other walk of life in which someone would be appoint to a role for life . we should not have that in our Parliament . I challenge the Paymaster General to use the Government ' s huge and disproportionate majority — disproportionate give that it be base on a minority of vote — to take forward the principle of fairness and equality , and to get rid of not just the unfair and unequal hereditary principle , but the unfair and unequal principle of represent certain religion and not other , or of represent any religion . I challenge the Government to get rid of the unfair and unequal principle of give political appointee life peerage . will the Paymaster General do that ? will he also set out step for replace the House of Lords with an elect house of citizen ? will he take step to introduce a fair electoral system for this Parliament , so that every vote cast in this country have equal weight ? we have have a lively debate and some wonderful maiden speech . I note some telling and impressive phrase — phrase that I think very few in this House could disagree with . yet the House , in its action , implement that which it disagree with . what be those phrase ? one Member talk about the need to move to " a more democratic form of government " . good . someone else mention " strengthen democratic right " . good . another Member talk about " advance democratic control " . the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) say that " unelected lawmaker should not be a thing " . good . however , the phrase that strike I most poignantly be about the principle of elect those who govern we . this House have spend an afternoon debate the right and wrong of have hereditary peer , but there be a part of the United Kingdom where the primary issue be not whether the legislature have the right make - up but why 300 area of law be make by a foreign Parliament . those law be make not by this House or the other House , or by the legislative Assembly in Stormont , and that be the product of the protocol agreement make by the previous Government and continue to be implement by the current Government . law affect fundamental issue , that govern most of our economy , that govern our entire agrifood industry and that control much of our environment be not make in this House — they be not make with the contribution of hereditary and non - hereditary peer — but by foreign politician who no one in this nation elect . [ interruption . ] someone say , " wrong debate " . it be not the wrong debate when we be talk about the fundamental of what it mean to have democratic legislature . there be nothing more fundamental than the principle that we should be govern by those we elect . the position of all the hereditary peer in the House of Lords may be indefensible — that be my own inclination — but at least they be United Kingdom citizen make law for United Kingdom citizen . my constituent live under a regime in which many of the law be make not by United Kingdom citizen and not by those elect by we , but by those elect in Hungary , Estonia or wherever . this come down to practical illustration . just a few day ago , a statutory instrument about pet passport be lay in this House that impose not a UK law , but an EU law . it mean that any Member of this House or any citizen of Great Britain who want , for example , to come and visit the wonderful Giant ' s Causeway in my constituency and bring with they their good friend — their dog — must , subject to EU law , have a pet passport , have it inoculate accord to EU demand , belong to a pet scheme set up under that law and have the documentation inspect . I be use this debate to draw the attention of the House to the fact that , yes , it be right and necessary that we debate the apparent anachronism of hereditary peer , but there be a far more compelling issue that this House should be prepare to address . I will be bring a private member ' s Bill to this House that will give it the opportunity to address those issue , and when I do , I hope that the same enthusiasm for basic democratic principle will be show for the principle that we should be able to elect those who govern we . I call the shadow Minister . it be my privilege to wind up the opposition ' s case on the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill . in their first 100 day , the new Government have come out of the general election at lightning speed , but at time they have find themselves struggle to keep the wheel from spin off the wagon . it be perhaps no surprise , therefore , that this gesture at constitutional modernisation be be rush through Parliament without pre - legislative scrutiny , without meaningful cross - party engagement and without proper consultation . this be a five - clause Bill with no detail on the next step . the Government have 14 long year in opposition to ponder how to complete the change from when they last address the matter in the House of Lords Act 1999 , yet we see a Bill without ambition . it be incomplete , and without due consideration of the wide implication , as my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) set out so eloquently . it be a Bill that provoke question that be not answer despite repeat assertion to the contrary ; and , sadly , in line with many aspect of Labour ' s first 100 day in power , there be no clear plan . there be the hope of one — I acknowledge that — but the complexity and variable geometry of our constitutional settlement and history and tradition need serious examination . I admire the right hon . Gentleman ' s elegant effort to slide past the 14 year when his party be in charge and have an opportunity to change some of these thing , but I also note that he be circumvent have to try and defend the indefensible , which be the idea that people have a birthright to be in our Parliament . we be surely long past that point , and if he agree he and his party should be support our party ' s proposal . I be not hide at all from that ; I be say that it must be one part of much wide reform , which many conservative Members would agree with . if we be to make a large number of change , it be only reasonable when take the first step to want to know what the next step be , because we then address the final overall effect on our constitution and national Parliament . if the right hon . Gentleman be so keen for the Government to set out additional step , why be he not so keen for the Government of the last 14 year to set out any step ? he describe this Bill as lacking ambition ; how would he describe the last 14 year when his Government do absolutely nothing to reform the House of Lords ? I be a member of the Government for seven year and do quite a lot in financial service and other aspect . I totally recognise that significant step forward be not take on this matter and I do not deny the need for reform , but do this in one step without state what the further step will be be not the right way . rise — I will make a bit more progress before give way to the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , who , like I , have be here for well over four hour . make one ' s maiden speech be a key moment , and I pay tribute to the five or six member who have do so amid 22 speech from across the House , include some excellent contribution . I turn first , however , to my parliamentary neighbour and friend my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , the newly elect Chairman of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , who express very well the challenge of defend the hereditary principle , but in his usual way point also to the lack of coherence and make the case for a series of ambitious amendment that could be make to the Bill . he also make a very reasonable point about the case for life peerage for the hereditary peer who have make such a significant contribution , and that merit further consideration . I turn now to some of the maiden speech . the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) make a brilliant maiden speech ; she talk of her experience work for the Tony Blair foundation , her commitment to fairness , her enthusiasm for financial education , and her devotion to her constituency . I wish she a long career in this House . the hon . member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) speak of the warm affection she have for her background in the trade union movement and her commitment to the people from the council estate and the work class that she come from . I also note her commitment to apprenticeship and the energy transition , and I wish she well in this place . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) on his maiden speech , too , and his commitment to serve the many not the few , even if his perspective differ somewhat from that of his father , who many of we will know . the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) say that the Bill do not go far enough . I suspect he would want to take it to a different place than we would , but I wish he well in his time in the House . the hon . member for Glasgow North East ( Maureen Burke ) speak of her deep commitment to Glasgow and pay a moving tribute to her brother David and the inspiration he have give she to serve here . there be a large number of other thoughtful speech , which I will not have time to go over . I just say that it be right , as we all know , that there be a constant review of parliamentary institution ; at time , evolution be in order so that they remain relevant to the public that Parliament be design to serve . the Government ' s view of this evolution have also be on a journey . in September 2022 , the Prime Minister , who be then Leader of the Opposition , make a speech at the launch of the Brown report make the case for abolish the House of Lords entirely — I acknowledge that be a principled position — to replace it with a new elect Chamber . he be report as say that he would do that to " restore trust in politic " . the question that many will be ask today be : what happen ? here Labour be , in government with an enormous majority , and what be its big idea or grand plan to deliver on all that ? today , conservative colleague have say that the reform go too far but not far enough , and too fast but not fast enough . they have say that we should abolish the hereditary principle and that we should keep it . what be the official conservative position ? may I ask whether what we have see today be exactly the reason that the conservative manifesto say nothing about the hereditary principle ? if the hon . member take the trouble to read the reason amendment , he will know the position of his Majesty ' s opposition . let I get back to what his Government have not do . their plan be simply to kick out 92 peer from the other place . I be afraid that just will not cut it . will the shadow Minister give way ? no , I will make some progress , as there be not much time . as with many area of policy , and as witness in these first 100 day , the Bill expose that , despite all those month sit on the Opposition Benches , the Government do not have a coherent plan with the next step set out . will the shadow Minister give way ? I will in a moment . I say that I would , so I will . as Lord Adonis have remind we , " there be no consensus on reform . " the Government do have , as they keep tell we when it be the other way round , 14 year to deliver . they have 14 year to come up with that plan . now they have an enormous majority , and they have just set out one step . I thank the shadow Minister for give way . he have diligently listen to all the debate this afternoon , and I thank he for that . he talk about a package of reform . the last reform that his party bring forward in 2014 be a very small reform , with the expulsion of people for non - attendance , the right to resign or retire and the expulsion of those who commit a crime . since then , 187 member have retire or resign and 16 have be expel for non - attendance . if that be perfectly acceptable as a stand - alone reform without consideration of the consequential impact , why be this Bill any different ? I be sorry , but it be the hon . Gentleman ' s Government who be now in charge of the agenda before Parliament . it be for they to be accountable for it . I be so challenge by the poverty of ambition that exist on the Government Benches . we be give to believe that they be plan a new wave of peer , and the Prime Minister ' s former chief of staff have reportedly be overhear say that she be top of the list . the Prime Minister be previously report as try to make our political system well , because it have previously be undermine by " lackey and donor " appoint to the other place . sadly , it seem that as soon as he get into Downing Street , he discover the Government ' s own lackey and donor be already wait for he . I think that reflect this Government ' s wide approach and attitude to constitutional reform and our institution . I be glad that , at last , somebody else have mention the donor , because to I they be the big problem we have with the House of Lords . will the right hon . Gentleman back an amendment that say something along the line of anybody who have give any more than , say , £ 20 , 000 to a political party should not be able to get a place in the House of Lords ? I do not think we should rule out people who be successful in all walk of life , but I would look seriously at all amendment from colleague throughout the House . we need to come back to the fact of the matter . the House of Lords be not there as some ornamental , archaic decoration in our Parliament : it be an embodiment of Magna Carta — of power that devolve from beyond the Crown and beyond the Executive . so what be next ? be this all just a foreboding of the kind of parliamentary flagellation we can expect from this new government ? well , not if we on the Opposition Benches can help it . our reason amendment recognise that this Government have no recognition of the need for a reasonable process for constitutional evolution and reform . our amendment be about the careful and considerate review of change , as well as the acceptable or effective method of enact major constitutional change . surely it be reckless at least , and grossly irresponsible at worst , to seek to cast aside the experienced and independent voice of excepted hereditary peer , so many of whom play a crucial role in scrutinise parliamentary legislation in our nation — and some of whom have play an instrumental role in deliver government — without set out a clear , coherent plan or narrative for what come next , which should be scrutinise , discuss and refine . I hope colleague will join I and support the opposition ' s amendment . it be a pleasure to close this important debate on the second reading of the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill . the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) remind we in his contribution that today mark three year since the murder of our friend and former colleague Sir David Amess . I be sure that the thought of all of we across the House be with his family . I thank member from both side of the House for their thoughtful and measured — at time — contribution to the debate . it have be a debate many year in the making , and it be an important moment in the history of this country ' s legislature . I want to take the opportunity to congratulate all the Members who make their maiden speech today : my hon . friend the Members for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) , for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) , for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) and for Glasgow North East ( Maureen Burke ) , and the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) . my hon . friend the Member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire recall campaigning at the general election in the great Welsh weather , which remind I of the rally I do with he in the pour rain on that first weekend . happily , I remember my umbrella . I be sure that all those who make their maiden speech today will make a fantastic contribution to this Parliament and to their constituency , which they talk so passionately about , and I wish they all the good with their parliamentary career . as we hear early from my right hon . friend the Paymaster General and Minister for the Cabinet Office , this important Bill deliver on the Government ' s manifesto commitment and be the first step in bring about wide reform to the House of Lords . we firmly believe that the time have now come finally to end the hereditary aspect of the other place — a feature of our constitution that make we an outlier among nearly all other democracy . we be talk not just about today but about what happen 25 year ago . look back at today ' s debate , have my hon . friend be strike , as I have , by Opposition Members ' say that this reform have come too soon , that there have not be enough discussion , that it will cause dire consequence and that we should be look wider ? those be not argument from today but from 25 year ago . do she not think that the Conservatives should be straight and not just fluff thing — order . intervention should be short . my hon . friend be right . listen to some of the contribution today , it be not clear where Opposition member stand . they talk about reform be too fast and then not fast enough . they talk about it go too far , and then not far enough . be it not the case that the only time there be House of Lords reform be under a Labour Government ? in 1997 we have a mandate to reform the House of Lords . in 2024 we have a mandate to reform the House of Lords , and we should get on with it . there be lot of talk of reform from Opposition Members . they have 14 year , but choose not to do it . the Conservative Government introduce a comprehensive Bill involve the election of peer . I be the Prime Minister ' s parliamentary private Secretary at the time . it fail — notwithstanding the fact that I think it be awful — because Labour withdraw its support for the timetable motion , which mean , as a constitutional Bill , it would have take the Government ' s entire timetable . for that reason , the Government withdraw the measure . that be four government ago . it fail due to the timetable motion and the fact that the Conservatives could not get agreement even within their own party . there have be , and be , hereditary peer who have make real and lasting contribution to public life . however , this be a matter of principle . it be not right that anyone should be able to take up a seat in our legislature and vote on our law purely by virtue of the family that they be bear into . instead , this Government be commit to a small second Chamber that well reflect the country it serve . this Bill bring we a step close to achieve that aim . the hon . Lady talk about the family that hereditary peer happen to have be bear into , and say that therefore it be wrong that they should have any influence over legislation . be she therefore question the principle of Royal Assent ? absolutely not . I listen to the hon . member ' s contribution ; the royal family and the monarchy be one of our country ' s great asset . the contribution of the King and the work member of the royal family to public life in the UK be incredibly significant . the Government have enormous respect for the unique role that the royal family play in our nation . this reform do not affect the role of the sovereign . ours be a model of constitutional monarchy that continue to be practise worldwide . by contrast , the UK be only one of two Parliaments in the world that retain a hereditary element . to seek to make any comparison between the two be not credible . the sovereign be our Head of State and provide stability , continuity and a national focus . nothing in the Bill change that . let I turn to the reason amendment table by the official Opposition . the Government have introduce the Bill to end the outdated and indefensible right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . I be sure that the House will agree that it be important for Parliament to give proper consideration to the Bill , which reflect a Government manifesto commitment , rather than to dismiss it out of hand . although the Government be grateful for the contribution that hereditary peer and their predecessor have make to the other place , it simply can not be right that the second Chamber retain a hereditary element in the 21st century . let we be clear . those on the Opposition Benches talk today about consultation and engagement . first , I will not take any lecture on consultation from the conservative party , which ram through a Budget without engagement with the Office for Budget Responsibility and proceed to crash the economy that have leave people in my constituency and across the country still pay the price in their mortgage and rent . on the substance of the Bill , the right hon . member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) could not even be clear , when ask , whether he be in favour of the principle of remove hereditary peer from the second Chamber . from the sometimes quite lively contribution from the Opposition Benches , one thing be clear : there be a wide range of view that be not always consistent with one another . the new - find , if at time slightly confused , zeal for the job of reform of the second Chamber be note , yet Opposition Members have more than 14 year to bring about reform and never do so . those on the Labour Benches lay out our commitment for reform in our manifesto , which be scrutinise by the public and then overwhelmingly vote for . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . will she tell the House whether it be still Labour ' s ambition to abolish the House of Lords in its current condition and set up a democratically elect Chamber , yes or no ? we set out in our manifesto that we want to see an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the nation and region . I will say a little more about that later . our manifesto be scrutinise by the public and then overwhelmingly vote for . this be a tightly draft piece of legislation that directly make provision for the specific commitment to remove immediately the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . I be confident that there will be no shortage of scrutiny from member of this House and Members of the other place throughout the passage of the Bill . the effect of the reason amendment table by the right hon . member for Hertsmere would prevent the House from scrutinise the Bill . rise — rise — I will give way . if amendment come forward in Committee of the Whole House that reflect the aspiration of what the Labour party set out in its manifesto , will the Government work with member to ensure they become a part of the Bill ? what I be interested in be whether the right hon . member , with his new radicalism , will be vote with the Government tonight . the Government be commit to House of Lords reform and the Bill be the first step in that process . it have be say by Opposition Members that the introduction of the Bill break a commitment make in 1999 to retain the hereditary peer in the House until the second stage of House of Lords reform have be complete . that agreement , to the extent that it be ever bind , be not enter into and do not bind this government . it be not right that a discussion between political party a quarter of a century ago should still somehow mean that it be illegitimate for the Government to bring forward the Bill today . this Government be elect on a manifesto commitment to bring about immediate reform by remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . it be right that we take time to consider how good to implement our other manifesto commitment , engage with peer and the public where appropriate over the course of this Parliament . the hon . Lady have make the point at the Dispatch Box that convention from 25 year ago should not stand today . do she agree that that should also apply to other convention make with the House of Lords , such as the Salisbury - Addison convention , which ensure that legislation get through ? the Salisbury convention mean that measure that be propose in manifesto can not be block , but an agreement make a quarter of a century ago can not now bind this government and this House . this measure be a clear manifesto commitment , and it be important that we proceed with the Bill . we hear a great many speech today . member include the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) — I know he be keen to intervene — speak of the experience and the contribution of hereditary peer . let I make it absolutely clear that the Bill be not about individual , but about fulfil a manifesto commitment to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . of course this government value the contribution of hereditary peer , but retain 92 of they be always intend to be a temporary measure , and now be the right time to introduce this reform . the Government be elect with a clear mandate to address the issue , and the Bill be deliver on that . I do not support the removal of those peer , but if it be part of a big package of reform , one could at least argue , from the Minister ' s point of view , that it be a holistic measure in line with a manifesto commitment . this be a very partial reform , which focus on the removal of those very hard - work and good hereditarie , rather than be part of a more creative and holistic solution . we say in our manifesto that remove the 92 remain hereditary peer from the legislature be a first step towards achieve the reform of the House of Lords that we want to see , and it be right that we do not delay that first step . the wording in our manifesto be clear : this would be an " immediate " first step , and that be what we be deliver in the Bill . the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings and the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , among other , talk about our tradition . any suggestion that the Government be somehow against tradition or the ceremony of our past be nonsense . we value and respect our history , and its continue inclusion in our national life make our country all the well , but the continue reservation of those 92 seat for people who be simply there because of the family they be bear into can not be justify any long . that be an important matter of principle . a number of member , include the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) and the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) , wonder whether hereditary peer could be give life peerage . as my noble Friend Baroness Smith of Basildon say in the other place when the Bill be introduce , member who leave as hereditary peer can return as life peer . there be nothing to prevent they from do so if their party wish to nominate they in the normal way . that be all clear and understand . the point that I be make , along with other member , be that it would be a gesture of graceful good will to make life peer of those who be currently hereditarie . place they on a separate list , outwith new year , birthday or party leader nomination , would be an act of generosity reflect the work that they have do , and would underline the Minister ' s point that there be nothing personal in this . I thank the hon . member for his intervention and , indeed , for his contribution to the debate . that be not a commitment that we be in a position to make ; it would be for the new Leader of the Opposition to nominate for peerage those whom he or she wish to nominate , in the normal way . a number of member , include the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , talk about wide reform of the House of Lords . as set out in the labour manifesto , the Government be commit to replace the House of Lords with an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the region and nation of the UK . that would be a major change to the functioning of our Parliament and our constitution , so it be right that it should be precede by a significant period of detailed consideration and consultation . the Government will set out further detail of that process in due course , include how we will seek the british public ' s input on how politic can well serve they . however , that should not prevent progress on other important and long - overdue reform , include through this Bill and other initial reform , to help deliver a small and more active second Chamber . the Government ' s manifesto make it clear that the measure in the Bill would be introduce to implement immediate reform , which be what we be set out to do . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , too , talk about wide reform . I thank she for take the time to meet I and the Minister for the Cabinet Office to talk about her concern and her ambition for further reform ; I be grateful for that engagement . I want to stress that this be a new Government with a fresh mandate and a set of manifesto pledge that we be commit to implement . this Bill deliver immediate reform . as my right hon . Friend mention in his opening speech , part of the reason why there have be no further progress over the last 25 year be the argument that nothing should be do until everything have be do . we firmly believe in take this first step as a matter of priority , and it be right that we take time to consider how good to implement other manifesto commitment that the Government have previously set out . we will engage with peer and the public , where appropriate , over the course of this Parliament and update the House in due course . the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) make a point about the commencement of the Bill . the Bill will remove the remain hereditary peer at the end of the parliamentary Session in which it receive Royal Assent . the timing of the Bill ' s implementation ensure that the business of the House will not be undermine by the sudden departure of a number of hereditary peer in the middle of the Session . subject to the timely progress of the Bill , we will give notice to exist hereditary peer to give valedictory speech . the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) raise some concern about the balance in the House of Lords if this Bill be pass . it be important to point out that no political party have hold an overall majority in the House of Lords in recent time , and this Bill will not change that . the role of the Lords be to scrutinise and hold the Government to account in the context of the primacy of the House of Commons . the hon . member be right to say that the Bill decrease the number of peer on the Opposition Benches , but the share of the Opposition ' s seat in the Lords will reduce from around 34 % to around 32 % . give that the Conservatives will remain the large party in the second Chamber , I be sure that hon . member will agree that the Bill be hardly a power grab . I very much look forward to engage with the shadow spokespeople from the opposition party . I have welcome discuss this matter with the hon . member for Richmond Park and Members of other party who make time to discuss the Bill at drop - in session last week . I look forward to far engagement with all those who attend the Committee of the whole House , especially give the important view that have be express today . I stress again that this Bill be about finally remove an outdated and indefensible principle , and not about individual . as my right hon . friend the Minister for the Cabinet Office mention at the beginning of the debate , the current hereditary peer and their predecessor have make notable contribution to the other place , the merit of which we have hear in this House today . this be the first step in reform and not the last . the other reform set out in our manifesto be more complex and it be right to take the time to properly consider their implementation . I know that the Leader of the House of Lords have outline her commitment to meaningful dialogue with member of the other place on further reform to bring about a small and more active second Chamber . the Government remain committed in the long term to replace the House of Lords with an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the nation and region and of how the public can have politic well serve they . as the manifesto make clear , it be right to start with this immediate reform , complete the work that we begin 25 year ago . I commend this Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . the House divide : Ayes 105 , Noes 453 . [ division no . 19 , 6 . 55 pm ] question accordingly negative . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion five hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion six hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . business without Debate delegate LEGISLATION Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Constitutional Law that the draft Government of Wales Act 2006 ( Devolved Welsh Authorities ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 May , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Social Security ( Scotland ) Act 2018 ( Disability Assistance ) ( Consequential Modifications ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 26 July , be approve . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Immigration that the draft Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ( Juxtaposed Controls ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 29 July , be approve . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . deferred DIVISIONS Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to the House of Commons Commission . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . HOUSE of COMMONS COMMISSION Ordered , that Nick Smith and Marie Goldman be appoint to the House of Commons Commission in pursuance of section 1 ( 2 ) ( d ) of the House of Commons ( Administration ) Act 1978 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) spice - spike Vapes Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) research conduct by the University of Bath have uncover that one in six vape confiscate in school contain the synthetic drug Spice . use a device develop at the university — the world ' s first portable device that instantly detect synthetic drug — Professor Chris Pudney conduct test in 38 school in London , the west midland , Greater Manchester and south Yorkshire . test on just under 600 vape confiscate in school reveal that one in six contain Spice , while one in 100 contain tetrahydrocannabinol or THC , the psychoactive component of cannabis . Spice be find in confiscate vape in nearly three quarter of the school study . the researcher say that the finding be likely representative of the situation across the country . what be more shocking be that when the vape be confiscate , it be not because of a suspicion that they contain illicit drug . I recently meet Professor Pudney to gain a well understanding of the wide issue and the device be use to detect synthetic drug . speak to Chris and see the detection device up close , it strike I just how serious the issue be for young people . many of the confiscate vape contain Spice be make to look exactly like a normal product from a shop , and they be usually sell as contain THC . child be therefore inadvertently consume Spice while under the impression that it be cannabis . vape contain THC be common in the United States , where they be legal in some state , but it be expensive and difficult to import they into the UK . Spice , on the other hand , be cheap and abundant in the UK . it be therefore in the interest of dealer to use this highly addictive substance under the pretence that it be cannabis . Spice be highly addictive . it be a class b drug that be commonly use in prison . synthetic cannabinoid be associate with half of non - natural death in prison . addiction to Spice inevitably lead to serious high - risk health outcome , include hallucination , dizziness , chest pain , breathe difficulty and damage to vital organ . spice user be frequently see slump on the street in a state of semi - consciousness , unkindly describe by some in the medium as seem " zombified " . there have be numerous instance of child collapse at school , require hospitalisation and intensive care , and tragically become addict to Spice . the highly addictive nature of Spice make it a gateway to criminal activity , coercion and abuse . be in that state inevitably make young people incredibly vulnerable , and one user describe smoke Spice as like " be in a coma " . this year , a group of schoolchildren in south - east London be hospitalise by an illicit vape , with one of they end up in an induced coma . headteacher have speak about child collapse in hallway . one school in London write to all parent follow concern about the risk of child experience severe health problem , and the same story be replicate across the country . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise this important subject in the House this evening . this be not just a problem in London : in Cornwall , 750 illegal vape have be seize in the last year . the assistant director of public health in Cornwall have say that be just the tip of the iceberg . it be a very serious problem and affect many area , include mine . I thank my hon . friend for the intervention . I be just name one area with experience of the issue , where headteacher have come forward . he be right : this issue apply across the country , and especially affect vulnerable community . we all have they in our constituency . that be why this be relevant to all of we . the issue be far more common than previously think . we need to increase awareness of it among parent and teacher , and I hope that this debate will go some way towards do that . it be not just the health outcome of Spice that be harmful , but the criminality and abuse that become addict to such a drug can lead to . for young people who be vulnerable , that can include be pressure into drug deal themselves through blackmail or other form of coercion . when I raise the issue at business question last week , the Leader of the House assure I that the issue would be address in the tobacco and vape Bill . I would like clarity from the Government on what that will look like . it be already illegal to sell vape to child , and Spice be illegal for everyone . which specific part of the Bill will target illegal drug and vape ? crucial to this issue be that the vape that contain Spice be almost all refillable , not single use . refillable vape be rechargeable and feature an empty pod that can be fill with the liquid of choice . the Bill be largely focused on disposable vape . it will hopefully introduce much - need measure to restrict the flavour of vape and stop the free distribution of vape to child . those be measure that the Liberal Democrats and I support and have call for . on what you say about what more we can do in relation to young child , you be right — Order . " you " refer to the Chair , but the hon . Lady be refer to the hon . member . intervention should also be short . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . I just want to make the point that we need to be mindful that young people be in a time of cognitive development — a formative time , when it come to what they understand . ban the advertising of vape to young child , and make sure that the packaging be not attractive to they , be incredibly important . I agree with the hon . Lady . young people be very vulnerable , and some part of the Bill will address the issue , but I be talk today about refill , and what the Government intend to do about they and their ready availability on the internet . the Metropolitan police have warn parent that many child get their hand on illicit vape through social medium platform , such as Snapchat and Telegram . go be the day when someone need to meet a sketchy person in a back alley to get hold of illegal drug . these day , the drug be readily available over the internet , and that be a big part of the problem . the ease with which the drug be traffic via social medium , couple with the widespread prevalence of vaping in school , be hugely worrying and demand immediate intervention . the tobacco and vape Bill present a timely opportunity to address the escalate threat , but amendment must be carefully consider to effectively combat the unique challenge pose by Spice . the illicit vape be almost always refillable , with the Spice liquid mainly obtain online . change the packaging of legal single - use vape sell in physical shop will do nothing to address the issue . too often , the Government reflex be to ban something without understand the underlying issue . if the Government believe that put an end to pretty packaging will have an effect on Spice , I ask they to think again . one way in which we can push back against the problem be through education . we need to raise awareness of the issue so that the public have a well understanding of it . have police in school to talk to student , teacher and parent be crucial . parent need to be aware of the sign that their child could be at risk . it be not just the public that need more awareness of these issue ; we politician do , too . we be tell that the Government be bring in new restriction on the sale of vape to child , but further restriction to something that be already illegal do little to assure expert that appropriate action be be take . the Leader of the House mention that those restriction would come alongside further measure , and I look forward to hear what they will be . I have some question for the Minister . there need to be an immediate raising of awareness on the issue . the Government must do more to inform student , teacher , parent and carer of the scale of the problem , and to warn they of the consequence of unknowingly consume Spice . I hope that the Minister also realise that the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , in its current form , will do little to prevent the problem . there be a few critical deficiency in the Bill . first , it neglect online distribution network . its emphasis on traditional retail channel do not address the crucial role of online platform and social medium in the distribution of Spice - lace vape . that omission allow illicit vendor to operate with minimal regulatory oversight . secondly , the Bill misplace emphasis on disposable vape . although well - intentione , the propose ban on disposable vape overlook the prevalent use of refillable device for Spice consumption . that misdirect focus may even unintentionally exacerbate the problem by shift demand towards refillable vape , which be more easily manipulate for illicit purpose . finally , the Bill underestimate the complexity of the illicit market . it do not account for the sophisticated tactic employ by drug trafficker , include encrypt communication , cryptocurrency transaction and direct - to - consumer delivery . that under - estimation hinder effective enforcement strategy . I suggest three provision to amend the Bill before it be introduce . first , we must improve regulatory oversight for online platform . we should mandate content moderation policy for social medium platform and online retailer in order to prohibit the sale and promotion of Spice - lace vape . the Secretary of State should consider establish a taskforce compose of technology company representative and cyber - security expert to develop and implement method for detect and disrupt online illicit substance distribution network . we must allocate increase funding and resource to law enforcement agency for online surveillance , investigation and prosecution of illicit vendor . secondly , we should expand enforcement strategy beyond retail channel — in particular , postal and courier service should be require to implement protocol for identify and intercept suspicious package contain Spice - lace vape . I know that be not easy , but we must at least consider that serious problem . finally , we should require school to implement educational programme on the danger of Spice , deceptive marketing tactic and the risk associate with online and street - level purchase . the NHS should provide funding for harm reduction programme , include support service . with the help of Professor Pudney and the University of Bath , I would be very willing to work with the Government to establish a national campaign to educate young people about the danger of Spice and to empower they to make informed decision about their health and wellbeing . tackle this serious problem require a targeted and proactive approach from the Government across various different Departments , include the Home Office , Health and Education . we must not forget that we be talk about already vulnerable young people who be make even more vulnerable by this serious problem . the tobacco and vape Bill , in its current form , will not solve the problem . amend the Bill with the provision I have outline be crucial to protect young people from the devastating consequence of Spice . I be look forward to hear what the Government have to say today , but I be also look forward to further co - operation . we all must be aware of the terrible risk we be face by expose young people to those danger , but also to a life of serious addiction . I start by congratulate the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) on secure this important debate . I have listen carefully to her contribution , as well as those of the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) and of my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Dr Cooper ) , and I very much share the concern that have be express about this matter . as Minister for Policing , I be really keen to gain as full an understanding as possible of the threat to public safety , include one such as this , so while the subject matter of this debate be deeply troubling , I be grateful that it have be bring before the House this evening for consideration . I be also appreciative of the research undertake by Professor Pudney , which have help to identify this issue . Home Office and health official have meet he to discuss his finding , and we continue to consider any emerge evidence on the harm of illicit drug . I will start by make some general comment about vape . first , vape contain Spice be illegal , and no one should be buy or use those product — I will say a little bit more about that later . the Government welcome adult smoker switch to vaping as part of their effort to give up smoking , but discourage the use of vaping by child and non - smoker . as the chief medical officer , Professor Sir Chris Whitty , have say , " if you smoke , vaping be much safe ; if you don ' t smoke , don ' t vape ; marketing vape to child be utterly unacceptable . " the law currently protect child through restrict sale of nicotine - inhale vape to over - 18 only , limit nicotine content , labelling requirement and advertising restriction . the Department of Health and Social Care be provide £ 3 million in funding over two year specifically to enhance the work lead by National Trading Standards to tackle underage and illicit vape sale . however , non - nicotine vape and other nicotine product such as nicotine pouch have much low level of regulation , and current level of youth vaping and the targeting of product at child mean that further restriction be need . that be why , as the hon . member for Bath refer to , the Government will be introduce the tobacco and vape Bill to address the high rate of youth vaping , alongside measure to make the UK smokefree . that Bill include landmark policy to protect our child from the harm of vaping and the risk of nicotine addiction . among other thing , the Bill will stop vape and nicotine product from be deliberately brand for , and advertise to , child ; introduce a minimum age of sale of 18 for non - nicotine vape and nicotine product to ensure they can not be sell to child ; ban the free distribution of vaping and nicotine product ; and provide the Government with regulation - make power to restrict flavour , point - of - sale display and package for all vaping and nicotine product . the measure in the Bill be intend to bring about definitive and positive change to stop future generation from become hook on nicotine while ensure that vape can remain a mean by which adult smoker can quit . however , I note the proposal for amend that Bill that the hon . member for Bath have put forward . I be very happy to take those proposal away and discuss they with official , as well as share they with the public health Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Gorton and Denton ( Andrew Gwynne ) , because this be his Bill — he will be bring it forward . I hope the hon . Lady will allow I to give she my assurance that all the issue she have raise will be consider . can the Minister confirm that the new Bill will take the age limit at which people can use cigarette up gradually , as be propose previously , and whether vaping will be catch in the same path ? the Minister have refer to child , but child eventually become young adult and then adult themselves , and we need to prevent vaping from be an alternative . it just need to be stop . again , I emphasise that the Bill be not within the Home Office ' s purview ; it be a dhsc measure . I will ask the Minister for Public Health to respond to the hon . member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) because I be not yet sight on the whole Bill . as the hon . member for Bath say , the addition of Spice to some vape be particularly concern . Spice be a street name for synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist , or scra . other brand name be also associate with SCRAs , such as Black Mamba . however , despite the suggestion of a link in the term " synthetic cannabinoid " , there be no relationship between SCRAs and the cannabis plant . let I be clear : vape contain scra be illegal . Most scra , include Spice , be control as class b drug via a generic definition under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 . the import , production or supply of a class b drug carry a maximum sentence of up to 14 year ' imprisonment , an unlimited fine or both . although legislation be in place , with punitive sanction to tackle offence , include the supply of scra , there be something particularly concern about the attempt by some criminal to peddle vape contain scra that be design to appeal to child . I want to talk about what we can do to deal with that . the hon . Member make some suggestion . I be sure that we agree that early drug use significantly increase exposure to health and social harm , include substance use disorder or dependency later in life . one of the most effective approach to prevent drug misuse and risky behaviour be through empower and build resilience in child and young people . health education be a compulsory subject in school and be teach as part of the relationship , sex and health education curriculum . health education include content on drug , alcohol and tobacco . as with other aspect of the curriculum , school have flexibility about how they deliver these subject , so that they can develop an integrated approach that be sensitive to the need and background of their pupil . for example , in area where there be significant problem with drug or vape , a school can choose to dedicate more time to this topic . the hon . Member may know that the relationship , sex and health education curriculum be currently be review , and , as part of that , the Department for Education will explore whether any more content on this subject be require . the Education Secretary have say that child ' s wellbeing must be at the heart of the RSHE guidance and have commit to look carefully at the public consultation response and consider the relevant evidence before set out next step to take the guidance forward . in respect of vape specifically , the Department for Education and the Department of Health and Social Care have take a number of step to increase the training resource and support available for teacher and school . they have update the curriculum to include the health risk of vape and publish new online content on the potential risk of vaping for young people . I note carefully what the hon . Member say about parent as well as young people need to be educate , and also about politician need to have that education . I be a secondary school teacher before I come to this House , and I know how difficult it be to teach properly in lesson that be often after the normal school time . of course , this be one of the thing we can do , but it clearly need a target campaign . do the Minister not agree that this problem be so alarming that we need to look at a dedicated campaign , rather than leave it to lesson that I know reach some , but not many , young people ? the hon . Member obviously have a great deal of experience in education , and of what work with young people when teach these really important but difficult subject . give the number of issue she have raise and approach she would like adopt , I be very happy , as I say at the outset , to take that back and to look at the advice that official will give I and the public health Minister . I agree with the hon . Lady about parent as well as politician need to be educate on this matter . information about the danger of SCRAs be readily available on Frank , which be the Government - fund national drug and alcohol advisory service . it explain that SCRAs can be more potent than cannabis and that the effect may last for life . it also say that there may be unknown effect , because , as be important to note , we be at the early stage . I again thank the hon . member for raise this important and concern matter . I hope I have make it clear not only that punitive measure be available to tackle those who illegally supply these dangerous drug , but that the Government be alive to the danger of child vape more widely , as well as in these particular instance . through measure plan to be introduce in the tobacco and vape Bill , we aim to reduce the availability of vape to child . as I have promise , I will certainly feed back to the public health Minister the issue she have raise about what should be in that Bill . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Division House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill a reasoned amendment be propose , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House decline to give a second reading to the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill because it be not an acceptable or effective method of enact major constitutional change , because it propose a significant alteration to the composition of the House of Lords which should not be consider in isolation from other change , have regard to the undertaking give by the then Government in 1999 , because it drip - feeds change that hinder proper scrutiny of measure that could change the relationship between the two Houses , because it risk unintended consequence , do not reflect the lack of political consensus on House of Lords reform and do not provide for full consultation and pre - legislative scrutiny which would give the opportunity to consider the case for overall reform , seek cross - party engagement on proposal , and review the implication of all proposal . " — ( Sir Oliver Dowden . ) Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Paul Holmes Joy Morrissey Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Claire Hanna Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 105 , Noes 453 . question accordingly negative .