thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak in this debate on remembrance and veteran . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) and for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , and the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , on their excellent contribution . it be an honour to attend the festival of remembrance organise just over a week ago by the Leicestershire and Rutland Royal British Legion at De Montfort hall . that festival be an outstanding tribute to those who have serve in the military and those who be currently serve . it pay thank to our armed force with some outstanding performance from local musician and contemporary dancer . however , it be the harrowing account of those who experience the D - day landing that will stay with I . it will be a privilege to be involve in the many remembrance event across the constituency . it be the honour of my life to have be elect to serve as the MP for North West Leicestershire . in that role , I be follow Andrew Bridgen , who serve the community proudly for 14 year . while we do not share much in term of our politic , I know that he work hard for his constituent . while I be reference former mp , I have to go back far to our former Labour MP , the late David Taylor , who sadly die in office in 2009 . it will be no surprise to those who know David that he be fondly remember today in the constituency . North West Leicestershire be in the heart of the national forest . it be a fast - grow area , with the high housing growth in Leicestershire and an equally impressive growth in employment opportunity . none of this be surprising , consider our transport link : we have an international airport , East Midlands airport , which include one of the large freight operation in the country . however , like so many other area that have see massive growth , we have be lag behind in term of infrastructure . local people need to see delivery of our commitment to expand public service , rather than the scaling - back we see for the past 14 year under the Conservatives . I be proud to be the first female MP in the history of North West Leicestershire . recently , I have the pleasure of attend the unveiling of the newly refurbish mother and child statue in Coalville . Stuart Warburton , a local historian , have kindly check for I , and we think that it be the first statue of a lone woman to be instal in the whole of Leicestershire . that award - win statue , first instal in 1963 , depict a woman proudly stride forward with her son while hold a shopping bag contain many item link to the constituency , include a lump of coal , an oil tanker , a yarn bobbin and a dolly . it occur to I that there be no well way of showcase our constituency than by consider some of the item in her bag . North West Leicestershire have a rich mining heritage . the coalmine industry have be so important to the development of North West Leicestershire that it be literally give its name to the main urban centre , Coalville . the coalfield power Britain , and Kegworth — also in my constituency — be just a stone ' s throw away from the last coal - fire power station in the UK , which close just a few week ago . as be customary in a maiden speech , I will briefly adopt the role of travel agent : I highly recommend that everyone do a tour arrange by the Snibston Heritage Trust in Coalville . Snibston have one of the last remain example of above - ground working of the coalmine . we also have many pit wheel dot across the constituency , remind we of what previously lie beneath our foot . while in Coalville , visitor can pop into the Belvoir centre to sample the famous Birds Bakery jam tart . my constituency be home to another character who enjoy sweet thing : just a few mile up the road , in the wonderful town of Ashby - de - la - Zouch , we recently have instal a Paddington Bear on a bench . for the thrill seeker , we have Donington Park , home to MotoGP and motorbike racing , and for the heavy metal fan among we , it be also home to Download festival every June . I turn to the oil tanker in the bag . as with our coal heritage , North West Leicestershire ' s fingerprint be all over the rail industry . the oil tanker represent William Stableford ' s wagon work , which deliver a large contract for english and foreign railway . it be perhaps ironic that my constituency have no passenger rail service at all , even though the manufacturer Siemens complete the signal work for the Elizabeth line from its base in the constituency . one of my major goal in this House be to get the Ivanhoe line back run for passenger . this trainline be originally create in the 1830 by the great industrialist and father of the railway , George Stephenson . reopen it have the potential to create a beautiful trainline travel through the greenery of the national forest . the national forest line — now that sound nice ! North West Leicestershire have other industry , too . it be no secret that Leicestershire have a long history with the british textile industry , hence the yarn bobbin in the bag . H Seal Elastics have be knit in the constituency since 1898 and currently provide textile for use in military personal protective equipment — key equipment for our service personnel today . North West Leicestershire be also the home of Palitoy , which produce the dolly in the bag and the action man figurine — a character that seize the day and get stuff do . the content of a North West Leicestershire shopping bag today would be similar to the content of everyone ' s shopping bag at home , as the constituency be now home to a selection of food and drink manufacturer . in that shopping bag , there would be a selection of key produce from local farmer , KP Nuts , McVitie ' s biscuit , a Mars bar , Jacob ' s cream cracker , Quality Street , and some of the Mr Freeze ice pop that I enjoy with the Secretary of State for Business and Trade a few month ago after a tour of the Refresco beverage factory . during my time in this House , I hope to be an action woman — someone who add to our North West Leicestershire bag with clean waterway , well public service for all and , most importantly , an anytime day return ticket on the Ivanhoe line .