I thank the Minister for his generous word . although I accept that I will not be crack open a beer this evening to celebrate the Bill ' s pass — perhaps a bottle of Corona — this have be an important debate and it have demonstrate consensus across the House , save for the local difficulty of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , which we should not go into again . a range of view be express about the energy mix . my view be that we need a mix of energy generation that include all the thing discuss today . I be pleased to hear that the matter will be up for future discussion and I look forward to work on it with the Government — particularly on the important point of apply pressure to developer in a way that get the pragmatic outcome that we all deserve . I thank all member for their contribution to the discussion . the debate stand adjourn ( stand order no . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 11 July . I wholeheartedly agree . there be some incredibly cool alternative to loud firework , and the general public really like they . a YouGov survey recently say that drone be more popular than firework in the UK , and we have see some fantastic drone display . there be also low - noise firework , but the general public still do not know quite what they be buy at the moment . I would hazard a guess that not many people would know — until they become as nerdy as I about firework — the difference between an f2 and an f3 firework . we need to enable , encourage and educate responsible member of the public on what they be buy and on the alternative . there be a challenge there for the firework lobby , which need to diversify . there be a hunger among the public and consumer for quieter firework and increase use of technology such as drone . we need to see change now , because the public be behind we — the Deputy Speaker interrupt the business ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 25 April .