thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak . let I say congratulation and welcome to your place . I have be move and inspire by so many contribution over the past few day , and it be an immense privilege to be make the first maiden speech of today . I also offer my good wish to the hon . member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Patrick Spencer ) , who will also be make his maiden speech today . not only be he my neighbour , but he be represent a place that be really close to my heart . I be incredibly proud to be make my maiden speech as the new Member of Parliament for Ipswich . however , this be not my first contribution in this House . yesterday , I ask a question at pmq , highlight the huge potential that Ipswich possess but say that , after 14 year of neglect , we desperately need Government support to help revive our town centre . however , corner of social medium instead focus on a very gentle joke I have make , when I point out that my home county of Suffolk once again have a premier league football team , unlike our friend north of the border in Norfolk . one keyboard warrior in particular take umbrage at that . his name be Ed Balls , and apparently he use to work here . he say that Norwich have have a 15 - year unbeaten run in the Old Farm derby — a run that will now , sadly , be extend due to Ipswich be promote to the premier league and Norwich get knock out in the play - off last season . I be sure that that will be a bitter pill for Town fan to swallow as they visit Anfield , the Tottenham Hotspur stadium , the Etihad and Old Trafford next season . Ed ' s tweet also represent my most significant celebrity beef on social medium since Steve Brookstein — yes , the first winner of " the X Factor " nearly a decade ago . Ipswich have a rich and long history — so rich and long , in fact , that I be go to use this as an opportunity to settle an old score . now that Colchester have vacate its town status , I be lay claim to Ipswich be the old continuous town in England . no , I have not check that with the House of Commons Library , as I might have be give an answer that I do not want to hear , but two minute of search online tell I that I have a decent chance of be right — and I presume that , as I be now state it as fact in Parliament , it now become true . Thomas Wolsey be arguably Ipswich ' s most famous son , and we in Ipswich have be celebrate his legacy throughout the past year through the Wolsey 550 . Wolsey do not always get the praise he deserve . climb the greasy pole will not win you many friend — something to which member of this House will attest , I be sure . however , his story , rise from humble beginning to become one of the most powerful statesman in England , be remarkable , and he leave his imprint on our town too . Ipswich can also lay claim to Ralph Fiennes , Constance Andrews , Thomas Gainsborough , Jean Ingelow , Brian Eno , Edith Cook and even Richard Ayoade , to name but a few . my job over the come year will be ensure that kid grow up in Ipswich today get their chance to make their dream a reality , so that when my successor come to make their maiden speech , they have a few more name to mention too . I would also like to mention my predecessor , Tom Hunt . while an MP , Tom often speak about be neurodiverse , and be open about challenge that he face grow up . he look to tackle some of the stigma that still exist , and that be an incredibly powerful thing for a Member of Parliament to do . on election night , Tom charitably mention our share commitment to improve the life of child with special educational need and disability , an issue that I have campaign on for many year in Suffolk . I will now use my role to fight for those family here in Westminster . the SEND crisis be a national issue , and I know many colleague from across the House will have hear countless story about the struggle that family have have to endure to access the service that should be theirs . in Suffolk , we have have a decade of the most grotesque and repeat failure . I remember five year ago , after another damn report , the front page of our local paper , the East Anglian Daily Times , show the face of just some of the child and family who have be so badly fail by a broken system , with the heartbreaking , desperate headline , " we must be hear " . as ITV ' s report show today , so little have change half a decade later . those child and their family have still not be hear . this be not just about the educational impact on child , immense though they may be . it be also about the exhaustion , desperation and isolation that family suffer , day in , day out ; the month — year , even — battle for an education , health and care plan ; the time spend wait by the phone , or checking email , hope that they might finally get some positive news ; and the energy they have to find just to try to navigate this broken system , fight through tribunal , and submit mountain upon mountain of new documentation and information , all while try to care for their family . as a Labour Government , we can not let the suffering of vulnerable child and their family continue . it will be my personal mission in this place to fight this inequality and injustice . if I can make one final plea on this issue , as a former teaching assistant and proud GMB MP , I urge that when we talk about the crisis in retention and recruitment of teacher , we include specialist and support staff in the conversation . they be crucial to break down barrier to opportunity , too . I would like to touch on another subject that be incredibly important to I : the energy transition . this be not just an environmental necessity but an economic imperative . it can boost our economy , reduce bill , ensure great security and deliver the well pay job that we need . with GB Energy , we will be able to achieve that . if Britain be to become a world leader in this area , as the Labour party have pledge , I want Ipswich and Suffolk to be right at the heart of this national renewal . why should we not be ? over the come year , thousand of job will be create in new nuclear at Sizewell , in offshore wind and in solar . I be unapologetically ambitious for our town and our county . I do not want those job and that investment to drift away elsewhere . I want kid grow up in Ipswich , or people look to retrain and upskill , to get those secure , well pay job . I want local business to benefit from the billion of pound that will flow out of these project , and I want our area to be the centre of national excellence . that be our future , if we be brave enough to grasp it . as a Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament , it be particularly welcome to I that our commitment to community energy sit at the very heart of this mission . the great - ever expansion of community energy project , deliver a million new owner of energy , will be genuinely transformational , and as a proud Co - operative party MP , I will champion the growth of such project , so that local people will benefit from our green transition too . many of we be just a few week into our new role , and as this debate be about second job , I will be honest in my contribution and say that I have no idea why or how any Member of Parliament would have a second job . we all know what I be talk about . to be the Member of Parliament for Ipswich be the great privilege of my life , but to be frank , it be not like any other job . I think about Ipswich , and its beautiful , award - win park ; its waterfront look absolutely glorious on a sunny day ; the music festival that we have now , which I would have love to have be to as a teenager — I be only slightly old now than I be then — and the fact that our town once again have a premier league football club . I might have mention that already . I think about Suffolk too , the place I move to 25 year ago . I still hang out with my friend from Debenham high school . I still play for the same cricket club , the mighty Eye and District cricket club — my batting just as terrible , and my bowling just as slow , if not slow . I still want to walk around Fram castle , and along the beach of Southwold , Aldeburgh and Dunwich . I still pop into Coes , a family business found nearly 100 year ago , and I love nothing well than eat at the Lighthouse restaurant , or drink an Adnams or an aspall in the Woolpack or the Greyhound . I be still surround by my friend here , my family and my neighbour , not to mention a million happy memory , have be shape and inspire by they for nearly a quarter of a century . I have no doubt that I will make some mistake along the way , and I know that there will be some time when my constituent disagree with I , but know that everything that I do here will be out of service , friendship and love for my home , Ipswich and Suffolk . I join other in welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for give I the chance to make my maiden speech , and to contribute to this important debate on second job , speak for the people of Spelthorne . I pay tribute to all member who have make their maiden speech , in particular my immediate predecessor , the hon . member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) . he be clearly go to be a fearsome and fearless advocate for his constituent , base purely on the fact that he be prepared to risk the opprobrium of the people of Colchester , the people of Norwich , and perhaps most impressively of all , Mr Ed Balls . I congratulate he . I thank the House staff for the impeccable welcome that they give we all as new member . I be , for quite a long time , a soldier , so I be bring up on the mantra that two minute early be three minute late . it be therefore no surprise that at five minute to 7 on the Monday after the election , I be the first in the queue at the top of the ramp . I see two armed police officer , but there be also a Doorkeeper , resplendent in his uniform of morning coat and gold badge , and his beard . not know what to expect , I approach he . he say , " good morning , Mr Jopp . " I be beyond impressed . he continue , " you might not recognise I under this beard , sir , but I ' m Matt , and I be with you in the Scots Guards in Afghanistan . " I go from be impressed to be deeply touch . have have the chance to listen to a large number of maiden speech , I have notice that when the name of the Member and their constituency flash up on the screen , that be sometimes meet with a knowing smile and sometimes not , depend on the name of the seat . it be like that excellent episode of " yes , Prime Minister " when Jim Hacker and Sir Humphrey Appleby start discuss somewhere call St George ' s Island . both of they suggest that they have some form of superior insight into St George ' s Island , but it quickly become apparent that neither of they have any idea where on earth it be . lest my maiden speech become something like that , I think that I ought to tell the House where Spelthorne be . Spelthorne be everything south of Heathrow airport until the Thames . we be in the administrative county of Surrey and the historic county of Middlesex . we be inside the M25 but not in London . crazily , you can use an Oyster card to take a London bus there , but not the train . we be outside the clutch of the Mayor of London ' s dread ultra low emission zone charge , but accord to the Church of England , we report to the Bishop of Kensington . hon . member might think that all those special circumstance would give rise to something of an identity crisis for the people of Spelthorne , but not a bit of it , because no one who live there actually call it spelthorne anyway . instead , people say they live in Staines , Stanwell or Stanwell Moor ; in Ashford , Shepperton or Laleham ; in Halliford , Charlton Village or Sunbury . by the way , all hon . member sit in Parliament today be here thank to a notable resident of Stanwell : Thomas , later Lord , Knyvet . it be he whom the King dispatch to search the cellar beneath Parliament , result in the capture of the treacherous gunpowder plotter . clearly , Lord Knyvet ' s ability to navigate this place be a great deal well than mine . I pay full tribute to my immediate predecessor as Member of Parliament for Spelthorne , Kwasi Kwarteng , who have represent the constituency since 2010 . hon . member will not be surprised to hear that his name come up frequently on the doorstep in the last general election . Kwasi be a much - respect Back Bencher and Minister , as well as be a charismatic performer in this Chamber . a strong advocate for small business in Spelthorne , he instigate the Spelthorne business plan competition , now in its 10th year . spelthorne people be some of the hard - work people in the country , so it be appropriate that I should be make this speech in a debate on second job ; many of my constituent have they . I too have have a selection of job . as a friend of mine recently remark , " Blimey , Lincoln , 25 year in the Army and 10 year in private equity . where do you see more violence ? " now I be in Parliament , with the huge honour of represent the people of Spelthorne , and I be strike by just how important that be , particularly at the moment . I be sure that all member want to be a strong voice for their constituent and a local champion for their area , and I do too , passionately . however , we be also here to fulfil our second job : to make thoughtful contribution to the national and international debate on issue of great moment , none of which be more important , in my view , than the defence of the realm , give that the world be the most dangerous it have be since the end of the cold war . we be have a defence review , which will take time ; but time may be run out , and the right course of action — increase defence expenditure — be all too clear now , let alone in 12 month ' time when the review report . I gently suggest to all member of this House that to govern may be to choose , but it be also to act , and that the answer to autocracy be rarely more bureaucracy . to finish on a light note , I hope that hon . member now know a little bit more about Spelthorne . they be welcome to visit any time , whether to hear about the work of BP ' s global technology centre as it seek to decarbonise the world , or to see the large film studio in Europe and the second big in the world after Hollywood . they might instead be interested in a flutter on the horse at Kempton Park — not that we on the conservative side of the House be allow to bet any more — or maybe just to potter along the Thames like " three Men in a boat " . Madam Deputy Speaker , I say I would finish , and I do not make promise I can not keep . I make one promise to the people of Spelthorne . it be that if they elect I , we would move to the constituency . thank solely to the effort of my amazing wife Caroline , we pick up the key to our new home in Spelthorne on Tuesday , and will have move there by the end of the weekend . that be the first promise I have keep to the people of Spelthorne . I look forward , as I serve they , to there be many more . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a real privilege to make my maiden speech with you in the Chair , and a delight to follow the hon . member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) and my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) . I can not promise that my speech will be as witty as theirs , but I do support a proper premier league team in Manchester United — [ interruption . ] I have lose the House already . it be an honour to make my maiden speech in this House as the very proud MP for my home town . Telford be where I be bear and raise , and where I be now bring up my own family . I be Telford and proud . I begin by talk about those mp I follow . my predecessor , Lucy Allan , work on many notable cause . I particularly pay tribute to her tireless work in respect of the Post Office scandal , and to her constituency team , who have support the resident of Telford over the past nine year . I would also like to mention and thank my friend and mentor , my immediate labour predecessor David Wright , who serve our town and this House with passion for 14 year . I also want to pay tribute to the first person to hold the job of MP for Telford , a great supporter and crucial adviser to I , who now sit in the other place , Lord Bruce Grocott . Lord Grocott lead I on a tour of this House in 1997 , when I be just 11 year old — right hon . and hon . member may be forgive for think that I look to old to have be 11 in 1997 , but that be what 14 year in local government do to you . Telford be a new town in Shropshire , one that have grow significantly since its designation as a new town in 1963 . a town with a proud history and strong local identity , we be home to the west midland ' only world heritage site , the Ironbridge Gorge , the true birthplace of the industrial revolution . we have long - establish community such as Madeley , Oakengates and Dawley , which be record in the Domesday Book , and other proud community too . I be of course a son of Telford , but also of Dawley , the birthplace of Captain Matthew Webb , who in 1875 become the first man to swim the English Channel . his monument in Dawley High Street say , " nothing great be easy . " Telford be great , but over recent year we have certainly not have it easy . despite the challenge it have face , just like our own world champion boxer Liam Davies , Telford have continue to punch above its weight . we have deliver housing growth and economic growth . we have outstanding education , with outstanding primary school , first - class secondary school , and we be home to the Thomas Telford school and to state - of - the - art far and high education facility , with Telford College and Harper Adams University in the centre of Telford . we have a record number of green and protect space . in fact , if hon . member would like to visit Telford , join the 3 . 2 million people who do so each and every year , they will notice just how green we be . we be home to million — and I mean million — of tree . we be know as a forest city . in Telford we be also incredibly proud to be home to some of the big defence company . right now , Telford resident be work on tank destine for Ukraine and distribute essential equipment , from uniform to morphine , that will be deploy across all part of the world to our brave armed force . our relationship with the armed force be deep and strong . we be home to over 8 , 000 veteran — my own family have serve in all three service — and our council become one of the first authority to be award a Ministry of Defence gold accreditation for our work on the military covenant . for the past eight and a half year , I have serve as leader of Telford council , and we have do a lot over that time . we have regenerate our town centre , with the creation of Southwater . we have be a business - win and business - support council : we be home to Besblock , which provide brick to almost every house build company across the country , and to Aviramp , which provide airport across the world with boarding ramp ; and we also provide wheelie bin to most household across the country . we have keep our council tax among the low of all council in England . we have support child with outstanding child service , deliver exceptional adult service , and be leader within our sector . as well as a be a council leader , I have lead Labour in local government . I have chair the cross - party Local Government Association . indeed , I be proud to be the first former chair of the LGA to sit in this House rather than in the one down the corridor . I welcome to the House hon . member and friend who have serve as councillor and council leader . in Telford , as in the rest of the country , poverty and child poverty be increase . it be heartbreake that almost one in 4 child be live in poverty . for I , that be not an academic issue ; it be personal . I be in poverty as a child . I remember switch the light off in our council house and lay on the floor as debt collector bang on our door . I remember the embarrassment of queue for a blue free school meal ticket as many of my friend get their pay yellow one . that deep - down impost syndrome remain and be very much with I today . for too long , town such as Telford have have their contribution to housing and job growth bank , but the investment and support that be so desperately need to break the cycle of poverty have not arrive . despite our housing growth , we have not have the investment need over the past 14 year — the closure of our A & E and the relocation of our consultant - lead woman and child ' s unit be example . I say to my constituent that I will never stop fight to bring service back to Telford . I pay tribute to Telford Crisis Support , which work with the community and provide 238 , 624 meal last year — up by almost 21 % on the year before . it also provide clothe , nappy and the very basic of life , offer a vital lifeline to family . family come in many different shape and size . from the age of 11 , I live with my nan , Betty , who be and be my guide star . although I live with my nan from such a young age , my parent have always be there for I , too . I be lucky to have people like my great aunty Dil , who provide I with the financial support that mean I could be the first person in my family to go to university , where I read law and qualified as a solicitor . I be so lucky to have my own family now . I be a proud dad and stepfather to Evan , Millie and Owen — my wife Elise and I see no distinction in our family . part of the role of councillor be to be a corporate parent . those in state care should be consider part of all our family . in Telford , 423 young people be in our care , and we support 249 care leaver . when I be the chair of the LGA , I describe the local government sector as the corporate uncle and auntie of those in care and those who have leave care . what , then , be this House ? what be member of Parliament to those child in state care ? maybe we be the corporate great auntie and uncle with resource , influence and wisdom — just like my auntie . what more can we do to support our child in case ? to child live in council home , in temporary accommodation or in our care , who be pick up free school meal , food parcel and avoid debt collector , I say this : " if I can get here , so can you . " to provide a well future to all our child , we must reform our public sector . yes , for some that be a dry subject , but it be the only way to fix our broken system . reform be vital and prevention be key . the long - term approach to investment — invest a pound now to save hundred of pound many time over — will be important . invest in and focus on the first 1 , 000 day of a child ' s life can lead to well life outcome and massive saving to the public purse . we must always ask ourselves how public service can well serve the public . the answer be so often with the user of those service and those who work in they . when those who have skin in the game be empower and trust , the result be always well . we know that so well in Telford , after the recent work of Holly , Scarlett and Joanne . for too many , our country do not work for they . not only be they disconnected , but they feel a million mile away from this place . that allow other to exploit the void — to divide we . we — all of we — should work together , despite our political difference , to help connect this place to our citizen , so that democracy do not just survive , but thrive . I hope that I can work on that nationally in the come month and year . I thank the people of Telford for trust I with the incredible honour and privilege of represent my home town . I will stand up for Telford and for they . I know that we have a long road ahead of we , but I be committed to the challenge . after all , nothing great be easy .