prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . before we begin today ' s proceeding , I know that the whole House will have be horrify to hear the news of yesterday ' s crash of an Air India flight from Gujarat to London . on behalf of the House , I express our deep sorrow at this awful tragedy . many colleague will have lose constituent and they will be work tirelessly to support those family who have suffer a devaste loss . our thought be with those constituent , their friend and the victim in India , the United Kingdom and around the world . I be expect Ministers to come to the House on Monday to make a statement and provide an update on the Air India crash , as well as about the event that have happen overnight in the middle east . terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill further consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee . before we begin , I would like to say a few word about today ' s proceeding . we will begin at the point we end on Friday 16 May , with the decision to be take after debate on the first group of amendment . I will put the necessary question without further debate . after that , debate on the second group of new clause and amendment can begin . I remind hon . member that the scope of that debate will be the amendment and new clause in that group . nearly 60 member have indicate that they wish to speak in the debate . not all hon . member will be call . it be not customary to impose a time limit on speech on a private Member ' s Bill , but I hope that Member in charge of the Bill , and the speaker after she , will restrict themselves in the early part of the debate , include in take intervention . the Chair will keep time limit under review as the debate progress . if the Chair feel that people be take advantage of the Chamber , a time limit will be impose , but I hope we do not have to do that . I do not expect to call the Front Benchers to speak until at least 1 . 15 pm . I can also confirm that I have provisionally select for separate decision all of the proposition in the name of Kim Leadbeater , the Member in Charge of the Bill . I have also provisionally select the following for separate decision on new clause : amendment ( b ) to new clause 14 , new clause 1 , new clause 2 and new clause 16 . I will make further announcement on selection for separate decision on amendment at an appropriate point . we will begin with the question that new clause 10 will be add to the Bill , which be debate on Friday 16 May . New Clause 10 - no obligation to provide assistance etc " ( 1 ) no person be under any duty to participate in the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act . ( 2 ) no register medical practitioner be under any duty to become — ( a ) the coordinate doctor in relation to any person , or ( b ) the independent doctor in relation to any person . ( 3 ) no register medical practitioner , other than the coordinate doctor or the independent doctor , be under any duty to perform any function under or in connection with this Act other than — ( a ) a function relate to the giving of notification , or ( b ) a function relate to the recording of matter in a person ' s medical record . ( 4 ) no health professional or social care professional be under any duty to respond when consult under section 11 ( 3 ) ( b ) ( requirement for assess doctor to consult professional with relevant qualification or experience ) . ( 5 ) no register pharmacist or register pharmacy technician be under any duty to participate in the supply of an approve substance to a register medical practitioner for use in accordance with section 23 . ( 6 ) no person be under any duty to — ( a ) act as a witness under this Act , or ( b ) act as a proxy under this Act . ( 7 ) nothing in this section affect — ( a ) any duty relate to the giving of notification under this Act or the recording of matter in a person ' s medical record , ( b ) any duty relate to a requirement to keep record or to provide information , or ( c ) any duty of a professional to respond to enquiry make under section 11 ( 2 ) ( b ) ( enquiry by assess doctor ) relate to health or social care the professional be provide , or have recently provide , to a person seek assistance under this Act . ( 8 ) schedule ( protection from detriment ) amend the Employment Rights Act 1996 to make provision to protect employee and other worker from be subject to any detriment for — ( a ) exercise ( or propose to exercise ) a right under this section not to participate in an activity or perform a function , or ( b ) participate in the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act or perform any other function under this Act . ( 9 ) in this section — ( a ) a reference to a duty include any duty , whether arise from any contract , statute or otherwise ; ( b ) " register pharmacist " and " register pharmacy technician " have the same meaning as in the Pharmacy Order 2010 ( S . I . 2010 / 231 ) ( see article 3 of that order ) . " — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) this new clause , intend to replace clause 28 , expand the protection currently provide by that clause by broaden the person to whom it apply and the function to which it relate ; and it introduce ns1 which make provision for enforcement of the right not be subject to detriment in connection with the Bill Question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . question agree to . new clause 10 accordingly add to the Bill . New Clause 11 - replace the coordinating or independent doctor where unable or unwilling to continue to act " ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) after a first declaration have be witness by the coordinating doctor , that doctor be unable or unwilling to continue to carry out the function of the coordinating doctor , or ( b ) after a referral be make under section 9 ( 3 ) ( c ) ( include a referral to which section 12 ( 4 ) apply ) , but before a report under section 10 have be make by virtue of that referral , the independent doctor be unable or unwilling to continue to carry out the function of the independent doctor , and in this section such a coordinating or independent doctor be refer to as " the outgoing doctor " . ( 2 ) the outgoing doctor must as soon as practicable give write notice of their inability or unwillingness to continue to carry out their function under this Act to — ( a ) the person seek assistance , ( b ) the Commissioner , and ( c ) if the outgoing doctor be the independent doctor , the coordinate doctor . ( 3 ) any duty or power of the outgoing doctor under this Act that arise in consequence of the declaration or referral mention in subsection ( 1 ) cease to have effect from the time the outgoing doctor complie with subsection ( 2 ) ; but this do not apply to any duty under subsection ( 8 ) or ( 9 ) . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision relate to the appointment , with the agreement of the person seek assistance , of a replacement coordinating doctor who meet the requirement of section 7 ( 5 ) and who be able and willing to carry out the function of the coordinating doctor . ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 4 ) may , in particular , make provision to ensure continuity of care for the person seek assistance despite the change in the coordinating doctor . ( 6 ) where the independent doctor give a notice under subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) a further referral may be make — ( i ) under section 9 ( 3 ) ( c ) ( if section 12 do not apply ) , or ( ii ) where section 12 apply , under subsection ( 2 ) of that section , and ( b ) the register medical practitioner to whom that referral be make become the independent doctor ( replace the outgoing doctor ) and section 10 to 12 ( and this section ) apply accordingly . ( 7 ) subsection ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) apply where the coordinating doctor — ( a ) give a notice under subsection ( 2 ) to the person seek assistance , or ( b ) receive a notice under that subsection give by the independent doctor in relation to the person seek assistance . ( 8 ) where the coordinating doctor be a practitioner with the person ' s GP practice , the coordinating doctor must , as soon as practicable , record the giving of the notice in the person ' s medical record . ( 9 ) in any other case — ( a ) the coordinating doctor must , as soon as practicable , notify a register medical practitioner with that practice of the giving of the notice , and ( b ) the practitioner notify under paragraph ( a ) must , as soon as practicable , record the giving of the notice in the person ' s medical record . " — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) this new clause make provision about the replacement of the coordinating doctor or the independent doctor where the doctor be unable or unwilling to continue to carry out their function under the Bill . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 12 - Report where assistance not provide because coordinate doctor not satisfied of all relevant matter " ( 1 ) this section apply where a person be not provide with assistance under section 23 because the coordinating doctor be not satisfied as to all of the matter mention in section 23 ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) the coordinating doctor must make a report which — ( a ) set out the matter as to which they be not satisfied , and ( b ) contain an explanation of why they be not satisfied of those matter . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about the content or form of the report . ( 4 ) the coordinating doctor must give a copy of the report to — ( a ) the person , ( b ) if the coordinating doctor be not a practitioner with the person ' s GP ' s practice , a register medical practitioner with that practice , and ( c ) the Commissioner . " — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) this new clause ( intend to be insert after Clause 27 ) require the coordinating doctor to produce a report where assistance be not provide because they be not satisfied of all of the matter mention in clause 23 ( 5 ) . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 13 - regulation of approve substance and device for self - administration " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision about approve substance . ( 2 ) the regulation must make provision about — ( a ) the supply or offer for supply , or administration , of approve substance ; ( b ) the transportation , storage , handling and disposal of approve substance ; ( c ) the keeping of record of matter relate to approve substance . ( 3 ) the regulation may in particular make provision — ( a ) about the manufacture , importation , preparation or assembly of approve substance ; ( b ) for or in connection with the monitoring of matter relate to approve substance ; ( c ) require person specify in the regulation , in specify case , to give information to the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) the regulation may in particular — ( a ) make provision relate to approve substance that be similar to , or that correspond to , any provision of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 ( s . I . 2012 / 1916 ) ; ( b ) make provision apply any provision of those Regulations , with or without modification , in relation to approve substance . ( the regulation may also amend the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 . ) ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about device make for use or use for , or in connection with , the self - administration of approve substance . ( 6 ) regulation under this section must make provision about enforcement ( which must include , but need not be limit to , provision impose civil penalty ) . ( 7 ) regulation under this section may make any provision that could be make by an Act of Parliament ; but they may not amend this Act . ( 8 ) in this section " device " include information in electronic form for use in connection with a device . " — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) this new clause ( which be intend to replace clause 34 ) impose a duty to make regulation about approve substance , and a power to make regulation about device intend for use , or use , in connection with the self - administration of approve substance . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : Amendment ( b ) to new clause 13 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) the Secretary of State may only approve a device under subsection ( 5 ) if the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency have approve the device for that purpose . ( 5b ) before make any regulation under this section , the Secretary of State must consult the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . " this amendment require that the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency be consult before make regulation and that medical device can only be approve for self - administration if they have be approve by the MHRA . amendment ( c ) to new clause 13 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) regulation under subsection ( 5 ) must forbid the use of any device use for the self - administration of a gas . " this require the Secretary of State to forbid the use of medical device which cause death by the administration of a gas . amendment ( a ) to new clause 13 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) . this remove the power to make regulation that may make any provision that could be make by an Act of Parliament ( know as Henry VIII power ) from this new clause . new clause 14 — prohibition on advertising — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision prohibit — ( a ) the publication , printing , distribution or designing ( anywhere ) of advertisement whose purpose or effect be to promote a voluntary assist die service ; ( b ) cause the publication , printing , distribution or designing of such advertisement . ( 2 ) the regulation may contain exception ( for example , for the provision of certain information to user or provider of service ) . ( 3 ) regulation under this section may make any provision that could be make by an Act of Parliament . ( 4 ) but regulation under this section — ( a ) may not amend this Act , and ( b ) must provide that any offence create by the regulation be punishable with a fine . ( 5 ) in this section " voluntary assist die service " mean — ( a ) any service for or in connection with the provision of assistance to a person to end their own life in accordance with this Act , or ( b ) any other service provide for the purpose of any of section 5 to 27 . " this clause impose a duty to make regulation prohibit advertisement to promote service relate to voluntary assist die under the Bill . Amendment ( b ) to new clause 14 , in subsection ( 2 ) , leave out from " exception " to the end of subsection ( 3 ) and insert — " ( ) for the follow — communication make in reply to a particular request by an individual for information about a voluntary assisted die service ; ( b ) communication which be — ( i ) intend for health professional or provider of voluntary assist dying service , and ( ii ) make in a manner and form unlikely to be see by potential service user . ( 3 ) regulation under this section may make provision that could be make by an Act of Parliament , but may not amend this Act or the Suicide Act 1961 . " this amendment would limit the exception that can be create to the advertising ban set out in NC14 and also provide that regulation can not amend the Suicide Act 1961 , which include the offence of assist and encourage suicide . Amendment ( a ) to new clause 14 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this remove the power to make regulation that may make any provision that could be make by an Act of Parliament ( know as Henry VIII power ) from this new clause . new clause 15 — investigation of death etc — " ( 1 ) in section 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 ( duty to investigate certain death ) , after subsection ( 7 ) insert — " ( 7a ) in this chapter a reference to an " unnatural death " do not include a death cause by the self - administration by the deceased of an approve substance , within the meaning of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 , that be provide to the deceased in accordance with that Act . " ( 2 ) in section 20 of that Act ( medical certificate of cause of death ) , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may make , in respect of case where assistance be provide or purportedly provide to the deceased under the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 — ( a ) such provision that be similar to , or that correspond to , provision mention in subsection ( 1 ) as the Secretary of State consider appropriate ; ( b ) such further provision as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4b ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide that in case where the cause of death appear , to the good of the knowledge and belief of the person issue a certificate under the regulation , to be the self - administration by the deceased of an approve substance ( within the meaning of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 ) that be provide to the deceased in accordance with that Act , the certificate must — ( a ) state the cause of death to be " assist death " , and ( b ) contain a record of the illness or disease which cause the person to be terminally ill within the meaning of that Act . " ( 3 ) in Schedule 1 to that Act ( suspension of investigation etc ) , in the definition in paragraph 1 ( 6 ) of " homicide offence " , after paragraph ( d ) insert — " ( e ) an offence under section 31 , 32 or 33 of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 ; " . " this new clause provide that reference in chapter 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 ( investigation into death ) to unnatural death do not include death cause by self - administration of approve substance provide in accordance with the Bill . it make offence under clause 31 to 33 " homicide offence " for the purpose of that Act . it also amend the power in that Act in respect of medical certificate of cause of death . amendment ( a ) to new clause 15 , in subsection ( 1 ) , leave out from " section " to " ( medical " in subsection ( 2 ) and insert " 20 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 " this amendment ensure that death from assisted dying will still fall within the coroner ' s duty to investigate death under section 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 . new clause 20 — Guidance about operation of Act — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance relate to the operation of this Act . ( 2 ) the guidance need not ( but may ) relate to matter about which the Welsh Ministers may issue guidance under subsection ( 4 ) ( " Welsh devolve matter " ) . ( 3 ) before issue guidance under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) the Chief Medical Officer for England , ( b ) the Chief Medical Officer for Wales , ( c ) such person with learn disability and other person who have protect characteristic as the Secretary of State consider appropriate , ( d ) such person appear to represent provider of health or care service , include provider of palliative or end of life care , as the Secretary of State consider appropriate , ( e ) if any part of the guidance relate to Welsh devolve matter , the Welsh Ministers , and ( f ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4 ) the Welsh Ministers may issue guidance relate to the operation of this Act in Wales , but the guidance must only be about matter within devolved competence . ( 5 ) for this purpose , a matter be " within devolved competence " if provision about it would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd . ( 6 ) before issue guidance under subsection ( 4 ) , the Welsh Ministers must consult — ( a ) the Chief Medical Officer for Wales , ( b ) the Secretary of State , ( c ) such person with learn disability and other person who have protect characteristic as the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate , ( d ) such person appear to represent provider of health or care service , include provider of palliative or end of life care , as the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate , and ( e ) such other person as the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate . ( 7 ) when prepare guidance under this section , an appropriate national authority must have regard to the need to provide practical and accessible information , advice and guidance to — ( a ) person ( include person with learn disability ) request or consider request assistance to end their own life ; ( b ) the next of kin and family of such person ; ( c ) the general public . ( 8 ) an appropriate national authority must publish any guidance issue under this section . ( 9 ) in this section — " appropriate national authority " mean the Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers ; " protect characteristic " have the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Equality Act 2010 ( see section 4 of that Act ) . " this new clause ( which be intend to replace clause 37 ) make provision about guidance relate to the operation of the Bill . new clause 21 — provision about the Welsh language — " ( 1 ) in this section " relevant person " mean a person in Wales who wish to be provide with assistance to end their own life in accordance with this Act . ( 2 ) subsection ( 3 ) apply where the Welsh Ministers make regulation under section 39 ( voluntary assist die service : Wales ) . ( 3 ) regulation under that section must make such provision as the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate for the purpose of ensure that , where a relevant person indicate that they wish to communicate in Welsh , all reasonable step be take to secure that — ( a ) communication make by a person provide a voluntary assisted die service to the relevant person be in Welsh , and ( b ) any report about the first or second assessment of the relevant person be in Welsh . ( 4 ) where a relevant person inform the Commissioner that they wish to communicate in Welsh , the Commissioner must take all reasonable step to secure that — ( a ) communication make by the Commissioner to the relevant person be in Welsh , ( b ) each member of the panel to which the relevant person ' s case be refer speak Welsh , and ( c ) communication make by that panel to the relevant person be in Welsh , and any certificate of eligibility issue by that panel must be in Welsh . ( 5 ) regulation under section 7 , 9 , 10 , 17 or 26 that specify the form of — ( a ) a first or second declaration , ( b ) a report about the first or second assessment of a person , or ( c ) a final statement , must make provision for the form to be in Welsh ( as well as in English ) . ( 6 ) before make regulation in pursuance of subsection ( 5 ) , the Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers . ( 7 ) in this section — " panel " and " refer " have the meaning give by paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 ; " voluntary assisted die service " have the meaning give by section 38 . " this new clause ( which be intend to replace Clause 47 ) make provision about the use of the Welsh language . new clause 4 — monitoring by Chief Medical Officer — " ( 1 ) the relevant Chief Medical Officer must — ( a ) monitor the operation of the Act , include compliance with its provision and any regulation or code of practice make under it , ( b ) investigate , and report to the appropriate national authority on , any matter connect with the operation of the Act which the relevant national authority refer to the relevant Chief Medical Officer , and ( c ) submit an annual report to the appropriate national authority on the operation of the Act . ( 2 ) the relevant Chief Medical Officer ' s report must include information about the occasion when — ( a ) a report about the first assessment of a person do not contain a statement indicate that the coordinating doctor be satisfied as to all of the matter mention in section 9 ( 2 ) ( a ) to ( h ) , ( b ) a report about the second assessment of a person do not contain a statement indicate that the independent doctor be satisfied as to all of the matter mention in section 10 ( 2 ) ( a ) to ( e ) , ( c ) a panel have refuse to grant a certificate of eligibility , ( d ) the coordinating doctor have refuse to make a statement under section 17 ( 6 ) . ( 3 ) an annual report must include information about the application of the Act in relation to — ( a ) person who have protect characteristic , and ( b ) any other description of person specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) when prepare an annual report , the relevant Chief Medical Officer must consult — ( a ) the Commissioner , and ( b ) such person appear to the relevant Chief Medical Officer to represent the interest of person who have protect characteristic as the relevant Chief Medical Officer consider appropriate . ( 5 ) an appropriate national authority must — ( a ) publish any report receive under this section , ( b ) prepare and publish a response to any such report , and ( c ) lie before Parliament or Senedd Cymru ( as the case may be ) a copy of the report and response . ( 6 ) in this section " appropriate national authority " mean the Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers . ( 7 ) in this section " protect characteristic " have the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Equality Act 2010 ( see section 4 of that Act ) . ( 8 ) in this section " relevant Chief Medical Officer " have the meaning give by section 37 ( 5 ) . " this new clause would require the monitoring , investigation and reporting function set out in the Bill to be carry out by the Chief Medical Officer instead of the Voluntary Assisted Dying Commissioner . new clause 5 — implication for civil procedure rule and probate proceeding — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish a report set out the implication of this Act on — ( a ) the civil procedure rule , and ( b ) probate proceeding . ( 2 ) the report in subsection ( 1 ) must include an analysis of likely consequential change to the civil procedure rule and probate proceeding in consequence of this Act . " new clause 6 — Board to consult community — " ( 1 ) the Commissioner must , within six month of be appoint under this Act , appoint a consultation board . ( 2 ) the role of the board be to consult community in order to report to the Commissioner on the impact of the Act on those community . ( 3 ) the Board must report to the Commissioner and the Secretary of State every 12 month from its appointment on its finding . ( 4 ) the community that the Board must consult include people from black , asian and Minority Ethnic community . ( 5 ) the Board may consult other group in addition to those list in subsection ( 4 ) as it consider appropriate . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must , within 3 month of receive a report under subsection ( 3 ) , lie that report before both Houses of Parliament . " new clause 19 — collection of statistic — " ( 1 ) the Voluntary Assisted Dying Commissioner must ensure that the statistic specify in Schedule ( Statistics to be collect ) be collect . ( 2 ) the Commissioner must publish a yearly report set out those statistic . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , vary the content of Schedule ( Statistics to be collect ) . " amendment 13 , in clause 4 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a person may not be appoint under subsection ( 2 ) unless the appointment have the consent of the Health and Social Care Select Committee of the House of Commons . ( 2b ) in this section , reference to the Health and Social Care Committee shall — ( a ) if the name of that Committee be change , be take ( subject to paragraph ( b ) ) to be reference to the Committee by its new name ; ( b ) if the function of that Committee at the passing of this Act with respect to matter relate to the provision of assistance under this Act become function of a different committee of the House of Commons , be take to be reference to the committee by whom the function for the time be exercisable . " amendment 96 , in clause 25 , page 21 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) a drug or other substance may only be approve under this Act if the Secretary of State be reasonably of the opinion that there be a scientific consensus that this drug ( or other substance ) or combination of drug ( or other substance ) , be effective at end someone ' s life without cause pain or other significant adverse side effect . " this amendment ensure that drug can only be approve if the Secretary of State be reasonably of the opinion that there be a scientific consensus that the drug be effective at end someone ' s life without cause pain or other significant adverse side effect . amendment 97 , page 21 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) a drug or other substance may only be approve under this act if it have be license by the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency for that purpose . " this amendment ensure that drug can only be approve for this purpose if the MHRA have license those drug for that purpose . amendment 98 , page 21 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) nothing in subsection ( 1 ) require the Secretary of State to approve any drug or other substance if they conclude that there be no appropriate drug or other substance to approve . " if the Secretary of State conclude that no drug or substance be appropriate to be use , then the Secretary of State be not require by subclause 25 ( 1 ) to approve any . Amendment 27 , page 21 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the dose and type of lethal drug specify in any regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) must be license by the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . ( 2b ) the dose and type of lethal drug to bring about the person ' s death must be recommend by the guideline of either — ( a ) the National Institute of Clinical Excellence , or ( b ) the All Wales Medicines Strategy Group in Wales , as appropriate , prior to licensing . " this amendment will require the dose and type of lethal drug to be license by the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency and to be recommend by either the National Institute of Clinical Excellence or the All Wales Medicines Strategy Group in Wales as appropriate prior to licensing . amendment 99 , page 21 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the Secretary of State may not lay a draft statutory instrument contain ( whether alone or with other provision ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) before both Houses of Parliament unless they also lie before both Houses a report set out all relevant information on the likely time to death , complication ( include pain ) and likely side effect . " this amendment require that a report be provide to Parliament set out the information available on the propose drug , include time to death , complication ( include pain ) and likely side effect . such a report be require before Parliament vote to approve the drug or substance . see consequential Amendment 100 . amendment 69 , page 21 , line 8 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) see section ( Regulation of approve substance and device for self - administration ) for power to make provision about — ( a ) approve substance , and ( b ) device for use or use in connection with the self - administration of approve substance . " this be consequential on NC13 . Amendment 53 , line 24 , leave out clause 34 this amendment be consequential on NC13 . Amendment 54 , line 34 , leave out clause 35 this amendment be consequential on NC15 . amendment 19 , in clause 36 , page 27 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( ba ) how the provision of this Act relate to the operation of — ( i ) the Government ' s strategy on suicide prevention , ( ii ) the duty on clinician and other to secure the right to life , include of those at risk of suicide , under paragraph 1 and 2 of article 2 ( right to Life ) set out in Schedule 1 of the Human Rights Act 1998 , ( iii ) the Mental Health Act 1983 , ( iv ) deprivation of liberty safeguard as set out in Schedule A1 to the Mental Capacity Act 2005 , and ( v ) liberty protection safeguard as set out in Schedule aa1 to the Mental Capacity Act 2005 . " Amendment 70 , page 27 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( can ) ensure effective communication in connection with person seek assistance under this Act to end their own life , include the use of interpreter ; " this amendment provide that a code of practice must be issue cover ensure effective communication in connection with person seek assistance under the Bill . amendment 108 , page 27 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( h ) how the provision of this Act , include but not limit to section 23 , interact with the provision of the Abortion Act 1967 . " Amendment 71 , page 27 , line 35 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment be consequential on amendment 70 . amendment 20 , page 28 , line 5 , leave out subsection ( 8 ) and insert — " ( 8 ) if it appear to a court or tribunal conduct any criminal or civil proceeding that — ( a ) a provision of a code , or ( b ) a failure to comply with a code , be relevant to a question arise in the proceeding , the provision or failure must be take into account in decide the question . " Amendment 89 , page 28 , line 7 , leave out clause 37 . this amendment be consequential on NC20 . Amendment 34 , in clause 37 , page 28 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( ii ) person from black , asian and Minority Ethnic community and advocate group represent those community , and ( iii ) representative of the healthcare sector , include person who work in hospice . " Amendment 12 , clause 38 , page 28 , line 36 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 4A ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may not amend , modify or repeal section 1 of the National Health Service Act 2006 . " this amendment would prevent section 1 of the National Health Service Act 2006 , which set out the purpose of the NHS , from be amend by regulation . its effect would be to require change to be make by an Act of Parliament instead . Amendment 105 , page 29 , line 4 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) . amendment 15 , page 29 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) regulation under this section must provide that , where a body other than a public authority provide voluntary assisted die service under subsection ( 1 ) , that body must publish an annual statement that include information on the following — ( a ) the number of person to whom the body have provide a preliminary discussion under section 5 ( 3 ) ; ( b ) the number of to person whom the body have assess under section 9 ( 1 ) ; ( c ) the number of person whom the body have assess under section 10 ( 1 ) ; ( d ) the number of person to whom assistance have be provide under section 23 ( 2 ) ; ( e ) the cost and revenue associate with provide such assistance ; and ( f ) any other matter that the Secretary of State may specify . " this amendment would require private provider of the service permit under the Act to publish annual statement of the number of people to whom they have provide those service . it would also require they to disclose their associate cost and revenue . amendment 92 , in clause 39 , page 29 , line 13 , leave out from " Wales " to end of line 14 . amendment 106 , page 29 , line 16 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) . Amendment 107 , page 29 , line 22 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) . this amendment and amendment 93 ensure that the power under subsection ( 3 ) also cover provision secure that arrangement be make for the provision of service , so far as such provision be outside the legislative competence of the Senedd . amendment 93 , page 29 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( b ) a reference to provision about voluntary assisted die service include in particular provision secure that arrangement be make for the provision of such service . " see the statement for Amendment 92 . amendment 29 , in clause 40 , page 30 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) any notification to the Commissioner make pursuant to regulation under this section must be forward by the Commissioner to the relevant Chief Medical Officer . ( 6 ) the relevant Chief Medical Officer may exercise any power grant to the Commissioner under subsection ( 2 ) . ( 7 ) in this section " relevant Chief Medical Officer " have the meaning give by section 37 ( 5 ) . " amendment 21 , in clause 43 , page 31 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) for the first reporting period refer to under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) the report must set out an assessment of the state of health service to person with palliative and end of life care need and the implication of this Act on those service . ( 5 ) the report under subsection ( 4 ) must , in particular , include an assessment of the availability , quality and distribution of appropriate health service to person with palliative and end of life care need , include — ( a ) pain and symptom management ; ( b ) psychological support for those person and their family ; ( c ) information about palliative care and how to access it . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to prepare and publish an assessment of the availability , quality and distribution of palliative and end of life care service as part of the first report on implementation of the Act ( to be undertake within 1 year of the Act be pass ) . this would mirror the assessment already require as part of the 5 year review of the act . amendment 28 , page 31 , line 32 , leave out clause 45 . this amendment be link to NC4 . Amendment 35 , clause 45 , page 32 , line 20 , after " characteristic " insert " , include person represent black , asian and Minority Ethnic community , " . amendment 36 , in clause 46 , page 33 , line 11 , after " disability " insert " , and ( ii ) person from black , asian and Minority Ethnic community " . amendment 90 , page 33 , line 18 , leave out clause 47 . this amendment be consequential on NC21 . amendment 39 , in clause 47 , page 33 , line 19 , after " provide " insert " in Wales " . this amendment specify that this section apply only to service provide in Wales . amendment 40 , page 33 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) any entity provide a service or fulfil a function under this Act must take all reasonable step to ensure the particular health professional provide a service or fulfil a function under section 5 , 9 , 10 , 12 , 15 , and 23 have fluent proficiency in the Welsh language , if the service be to be provide to a person in Welsh under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 2b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2A ) , " fluent " include speak fluent Welsh in order to enable conversation with the person in Welsh . ( 2C ) the Commissioner must take all reasonable step to ensure member of Assisted Dying Panels will , if the person to whom the referral relate have ask for service to be provide in Welsh , when hear from or question that person under section 15 ( 4 ) ( b ) , do so in Welsh . " Amendment 103 , in clause 50 , page 34 , line 24 , leave out from " under " to end of line 29 and insert " any provision of this Act unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , each House of Parliament . " this amendment would require all statutory instrument in the Act , except commencement order , to be make by the draft affirmative procedure . it be link with Amendment 104 which create the power for the Secretary of State to use the make affirmative procedure in case of emergency . amendment 72 , page 34 , line 24 , after " 10 ( 9 ) " , insert — " ( regulation of approve substance and device for self - administration ) , " . this amendment provide that regulation under NC13 be subject to the draft affirmative procedure . Amendment 50 , page 34 , line 24 , after " 10 ( 9 ) , " insert " ( doctor independence ) " . this amendment make regulation under NC7 [ Doctor independence ] subject to the affirmative procedure . amendment 100 , page 34 , line 24 , after " 10 ( 9 ) , " insert " 25 ( 1 ) " . this amendment make regulation under clause 25 ( 1 ) subject to the draft affirmative procedure . it be consequential on Amendment 99 . amendment 73 , page 34 , line 25 , leave out " or 39 " and insert — " 39 , or ( prohibition on advertising ) " . this amendment provide that regulation under NC14 be subject to the draft affirmative procedure . amendment 88 , page 34 , line 25 , after " 39 " insert " or ( collection of statistic ) " . this amendment provide that the change to NS2 should be make by affirmative regulation , and be consequential to NS2 . Amendment 104 , page 34 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) if they reasonably consider it urgent and necessary for the protection of other , the Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers may dispense with the requirement to lay a draft statutory instrument . " this amendment be link with Amendment 103 . it create the power for the Secretary of State to use the make affirmative procedure in case of emergency ( this mean that it would come into effect straight away but there would be a vote afterwards ) . amendment 76 , in clause 53 , page 36 , line 12 , at begin insert " subject as follow , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 77 . amendment 77 , page 36 , line 12 , at end insert " only . ( 2 ) section ( Regulation of approve substance and device for self - administration ) , ( prohibition on advertising ) , 50 and 52 , this section , and section 54 and 55 extend to England and Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . ( 3 ) section ( no obligation to provide assistance etc ) ( 8 ) and Schedule ( protection from detriment ) extend to England and Wales and Scotland . " this amendment provide for NC13 ( regulation of approve substance etc ) and NC14 ( prohibition on advertising ) , and the general provision of the Bill , to extend to each part of the United Kingdom ; and for NC10 ( no obligation to provide assistance etc ) and NS1 ( protection from detriment ) to extend to England and Wales and Scotland . amendment ( a ) to amendment 77 , in subsection ( 2 ) , leave out " ( regulation of approve substance and device for self - administration ) , " . this would provide that NC13 ( regulation of approve substance etc … ) do not extend to each part of the United Kingdom and only apply , like most of this Bill , to England and Wales . Amendment ( b ) to amendment 77 , in subsection ( 3 ) , leave out " and Scotland " . this amendment would provide that subsection ( 8 ) of NC10 ( no obligation to provide assistance ) and NS1 ( protection from detriment ) only extend to England and Wales . amendment 42 , in clause 54 , page 36 , line 16 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) in relation to England , the provision of this Act not bring into force by subsection ( 1 ) come into force on such day or day as the Secretary of State may by regulation appoint . " this amendment will mean that , except as provide by subsection ( 1 ) , provision of the Bill will only commence in England when the Secretary of State make a commencement order , and not automatically . amendment 37 , in clause 54 , page 36 , line 21 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) and insert — " ( 4 ) regulation under this section can not be make unless the Secretary of State have previously — ( a ) make a statement to the effect that in their view the provision of the Act be compatible with the Convention right ; or ( b ) make a statement to the effect that although they be unable to make a statement under subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) , the Government nevertheless wish to proceed with commence provision of the Act . ( 4A ) the statement require by subsection ( 4 ) must be lay before both Houses of Parliament . ( 4b ) a statement under subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) must include the step the Government plan to take to resolve any incompatibility . " Amendment 3 , page 36 , line 22 , leave out " four " and insert " three " . amendment 94 , page 36 , line 25 , leave out " Wales " and insert — " section 39 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) and ( provision about the Welsh language ) ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) which come into force on such day as the Welsh Ministers may by regulation appoint . " this amendment provide that the Welsh Ministers have power to commence clause 39 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) and nc21 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , and that other provision of the Bill come into force in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) to ( 4 ) of this clause . amendment 95 , page 36 , line 26 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 94 . new schedule 2 — Statistics to be collect — " Characteristics 1 the Voluntary Assisted Dying Commissioner must collect the follow information about person request assist dying — ( a ) sex , ( b ) age , ( c ) self - report ethnicity , ( d ) level of education , ( e ) Index of Multiple Deprivation base on postcode , ( f ) region of residence , ( g ) marital status , ( h ) living status ( alone , with other , in a care home etc ) , ( i ) main condition lead to " terminal illness " fulfilment , ( j ) other medical condition , ( k ) other psychiatric / mental health condition , ( l ) presence of physical disability , and ( m ) presence of intellectual disability . Health and Care Support 2 the Commissioner must collect statistic on the follow information about health and care support — ( a ) whether the person be , before the request — ( i ) under a specialist palliative care team , and ( ii ) under a psychiatry team , ( b ) whether follow the request there have be — ( i ) referral to specialist palliative care team , and ( ii ) referral to psychiatry team follow request . information about request 3 the Commissioner must collect statistic on the follow information about the request for assistance — ( a ) the main reason for request assist dying , ( b ) any other subsidiary reason for request assist dying , ( c ) any previous request for assist die from that patient , ( d ) time between first request and subsequent request ( s ) , ( e ) number of time a second opinion be request under section 10 , and ( f ) number of time the second opinion disagree with the first . information about refuse request 4 the Commissioner must collect statistic follow information about request that be refuse — ( a ) at what stage of the process be the request refuse , and ( b ) reason for refusal . information about the process 5 the Commissioner must collect statistic on the follow information about the process — ( a ) time from initial discussion to first declaration , ( b ) time from first declaration to first doctor ' s assessment , ( c ) time from first doctor ' s assessment to second doctor ' s assessment , ( d ) time from second doctor ' s assessment to panel approval , ( e ) time from panel approval to second declaration , ( f ) time from second declaration to provision of assistance to self - administer lethal drug , ( g ) time from panel approval to death ( whether by lethal drug or natural cause ) , ( h ) duration of relationship between patient and coordinate doctor at first request , and ( i ) use of a proxy and reason for use proxy . information about clinician and pharmacy 6 the Commissioner must collect statistic on the follow information about clinician and pharmacy — ( a ) number of clinician participate , their speciality , and number of assist death each carry out per year , and ( b ) number of participate pharmacy ; number of time assist die drug be dispense . information about Assisted Dying Panel process 7 the Commissioner must collect statistic on the follow information about Assisted Dying Panel process — ( a ) number of application make , ( b ) number of application grant and reject , ( c ) reason for rejection , ( d ) whether family member inform of proceeding , ( e ) whether family member take part in proceeding , ( f ) number of request for reconsideration make , ( g ) number of reconsideration request grant and reject , and ( h ) reason for grant request . information on approve substance 8 the Commissioner must collect statistic on the follow information about the approve substance — ( a ) name of drug ( s ) use for the assist death , ( b ) whether intravenous or oral self - administration be use , ( c ) presence and nature of complication follow self - administration of drug ( vomiting , regurgitation , seizure , regain consciousness , other ) , ( d ) time from self - administration to loss of consciousness , ( e ) time from self - administration to death , ( f ) whether emergency service call at any time follow self - administration of drug , ( g ) location of death , ( h ) health care professional present at self - administration , ( i ) non - professional present at self - administration , ( j ) health care professional present at death , ( k ) non - professional present at death . " Amendment 82 , in schedule 2 , page 41 , line 18 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 1 ) and insert — " ( 1 ) the Judicial Appointments Commission must make arrangement for the appointment to a list of person eligible to sit as member of panel . " this amendment require that panel member be appoint by the Judicial Appointments Commission . it be link with Amendments 83 , 84 , 85 and 86 . amendment 83 , page 41 , leave out line 23 to 26 and insert — " but have not reach the age specify in section 11 ( Tenure of office of judge of Senior Courts ) of the Senior Courts Act 1981 . " this amendment require that the legal member of the Panel be someone who hold high judicial office or have hold high judicial office but not yet reach the mandatory retirement age . it be link with Amendments 83 , 84 , 85 , and 86 . amendment 41 , page 41 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in Wales , the Commissioner must take all reasonable step to ensure each member of a panel have fluent proficiency in the Welsh language if service or function in the Act be to be provide to an individual in Welsh under section 47 ( 1 ) . ( 2b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2A ) , " fluent " include speak fluent Welsh . " Amendment 84 , page 42 , line 2 , leave out " or deputy judge " . this amendment ensure that only High Court judge , and not deputy High Court judge , can chair the panel . it be link with Amendments 83 , 84 , 85 and 86 . amendment 85 , page 42 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) all judge of the High Court be automatically on the list and will remain so for the duration of their appointment to the High Court . ( 5 ) if they have not already , all person on the list ( whether as a legal member , psychiatrist member , or social care member ) must take the judicial oath . " this amendment make all High Court judge automatically eligible to chair panel without need further application and it require that the non - legal member take the judicial oath before they can sit . it be link with Amendments 83 , 84 , 85 and 86 . amendment 86 , page 43 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) panel shall have the same power , privilege and authority as the High Court . " this amendment give the panel the same power as the High Court . it be link with Amendments 83 , 84 , 85 and 86 . it be a privilege to open today ' s debate and to present to the House the amendment table in my name , a number of which relate to issue that I promise to return to when they be raise in Committee . all amendment in my name have be draft with technical advice and expertise from civil servant from the Department of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of Justice , along with the brilliant Government Legal Department and the Office of the parliamentary Counsel , in order to make the Bill workable and to give coherence to the statute book , as confirm by the Minister for Care , my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) , and the Minister for Courts and Legal Services , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , in their recent letter to mps . some be technical and draft amendment , and all be there to strengthen the Bill , so I hope that colleague will be able to support they , wherever they stand on the principle of assist dying . I know that many colleague wish to speak today , so I will endeavour to speak with brevity . I will speak first to the new clause that stand in my name , start with new clause 13 . this important new clause and the related amendment would create a regulatory framework and safeguard around the approve substance refer to in the Bill by impose a duty to make regulation about those substance and a power to make regulation about device for use in connection with their self - administration . amendment 72 provide that the regulation relate to approve substance would be subject to the affirmative procedure , mean that they must be lay before Parliament and approve by resolution of both Houses , provide important parliamentary oversight . these measure ensure that the substance use in assist dying be subject to a specific and appropriate regulatory regime . I be genuinely look for clarification . as a former Cabinet Minister in the Scottish Government , I jealously guard the devolution settlement . I wonder how the extension of some of these clause to include Scotland will be interpret . what conversation have take place between my hon . friend , Scotland ' s Lord Advocate and the Scottish Government ? I have take legal advice from Government official to ensure that devolution be respect at every stage in proceeding . where legislation that affect other jurisdiction need to be amend , those conversation have already start and will continue . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I be go to make some progress , if that be okay . the substance that would be use would not be new substance . as we know , assist dying be available in many other jurisdiction , and there be substance that have be use safely and , in some case , for many year . their safety and efficacy have be prove around the world , but they do need to be treat differently , which be the purpose of new clause 13 . will the hon . Lady give way ? will the hon . Lady give way ? I be go to make some progress . however , it be most likely that these product be already license for other purpose . they could well be regulate through the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency and within the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 for the purpose of the Bill , but it be important that time be give — will my hon . friend give way ? I will . as an operating department practitioner with more than 20 year of experience , I emphasise that control and administer drug be already a key part of every healthcare professional ' s practice . medicine management be at the front and centre of everything we do when handle drug . do my hon . friend agree that the safeguard add to this Bill , along with the exist framework , be more than adequate to deal with this ? I thank my hon . friend for share her expertise , along with other colleague with medical background who have work with I on this amendment . rise — give what you have say , Mr Speaker , I will make some progress . [ interruption . ] a lot of Members wish to speak today . I now turn to new clause 14 and amendment 73 . the new clause impose a duty to make regulation prohibit advertising of service relate to voluntary assist dying . this issue be discuss in Committee , follow an amendment table by the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) . it be propose that there should be no advertising of assist die service . I agree , and there be a consensus on that in the Committee . there be some issue with the previous amendment ' s workability , so I give a commitment to return to the matter on Report — hence the inclusion of this new clause . amendment 73 provide that regulation under new clause 14 would be subject to the affirmative procedure , provide parliamentary oversight . on the evidential basis , on page 15 of today ' s edition of the Times there be a story about a gentleman who be bear in South Africa and live in Australia . he have come to London this week for this particular Bill in order to give his story . he be diagnose with pancreatic cancer and tell he have only two week to live : he live for three year and one month , and he be still live . there be a grow evidential basis . he say that he be never afraid to die , but he say that he be afraid of the process of die , and the hon . Lady be the initiator of that . will she acknowledge the evidential basis and the importance of this subject ? do she realise that the evidential basis against this Bill be grow ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the intervention , although I be not sure that it be relevant to the banning of advertising for assisted die service , which I will try to stay focused on . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be afraid that I be go to have to make some progress , base on the number of member who wish to speak today . I thank the hon . member for West Worcestershire and the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for work with I on amendment 73 , and I be very pleased that they support it . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not — sorry . new clause 15 and amendment 54 make change to the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 that the Bill would necessitate . they would insert a new clause into the Act to provide that death that occur in accordance with the Bill will be certify by an attend practitioner and medical examiner and will not be subject to a coronial investigation . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be afraid not . coroner investigate suspicious or violent death , or situation in which the cause of death be unknown . assisted death would not fall into these category , and there would therefore be no need for a default coronial investigation . this will ensure that any unnecessary delay and distress for bereaved family be avoid . these be not unexpected death ; sadly , they be inevitable . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not , I be afraid . it be the manner and timing of their death about which the patient will make a legal , inform choice , have be thoroughly assess . as Professor Aneez Esmail have say , " I can not think of any death that would be the subject of great scrutiny in advance of the person die than an assisted death . the process far exceed the level of safeguarding that be in place for many of the death that be , at present , routinely review by medical examiner and not refer to a coroner . " of course , anyone can report a death — include an assisted death — to the coroner , or indeed to the police , if they have any concern that it be not carry out in accordance with the Act , and if any offence have be commit , they will be investigate . subsection ( 2 ) of new clause 15 require that the medical certificate of cause of death must state the death as an assisted death , but it must also record the illness or disease that cause the person to be terminally ill and enable they to receive assistance under the Act . this be really important for datum collection and monitoring . in jurisdiction with similar legislation , around 70 % of patient have some form of cancer , and the new clause would ensure that datum be collect , not only in relation to how many people access assisted dying but in relation to the terminal illness that make they eligible . I now turn to new clause 20 , which relate to the guidance about the operation of the Act , include with respect to devolution . put simply , new clause 20 ensure that the right rule and responsibility sit with the right people . first , it place the obligation to issue guidance with the Secretary of State . secondly , it enable Welsh Ministers to issue guidance on devolve matter . the Secretary of State must consult the chief medical officer in order to have the benefit of their expertise , which be also really important . new clause 20 also add a provision that ensure that the Secretary of State must consult people with learn disability and people with protect characteristic , which include disability , race , religion and belief . will my hon . friend give way ? I be go to make some progress , I be afraid . the Secretary of State must also consult provider of health and care service , include palliative and end - of - life care . I be really pleased that Hospice UK be support this amendment — it be very important that those voice be hear . the Secretary of State can also consult anyone else they feel to be appropriate , create a flexible and holistic approach . turn to devolution , this long - overdue reform would apply to England and Wales , which share a criminal justice system . health be a devolved matter , of course , and I have recognise from the outset that the legislation must respect devolution . I be fully commit to observe the same convention that the Government would if this be a Government Bill . I have work with UK Government official to ensure that the right step be take at the right time by the right people . I have engage with colleague in the Welsh Government — I meet the Welsh Health Minister in Cardiff , and there have be ongoing detailed discussion between the two team of Government official to ensure the workability of the legislation in both jurisdiction , in line with the devolution settlement . amendment 92 to 95 also ensure that the devolution settlement be respect and adhere to . I thank the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) and the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , not only for their diligent work on the Bill Committee but for work with I on the amendment in relation to Wales , and I thank the Welsh Government for their guidance and support . I hope that colleague across the House can support these new clause and amendment . I now turn to new clause 21 , which make specific provision about the use of the Welsh language . the conversation that happen at the end of a person ' s life be extremely personal and should be handle with the utmost sensitivity . it be very important that they be conduct in the good interest of the patient , and a big part of that be use clear communication . in this respect , language matter , so if a patient in Wales have Welsh as their first or preferred language , all effort should be make to ensure they can communicate with voluntary assist die service in Welsh . I commit to this in Committee , and have make good on that commitment . turn to amendment 76 and 77 , as with any Bill , it be important that the amend legislation secure overall coherence with the statute book . as such , the clause relate to medicine , advertising and employment protection amend , or confer power to amend , other legislation that currently extend to part of the UK . of course , this do not mean the provision of assist dying , but , for example , they extend the prohibition on advertising to the whole of the UK and apply the employment protection in the Bill to Scotland . that be in line with the guidance I have receive from legal expert , and as such I hope all colleague can support these amendment . if the Bill pass , I will , if necessary , work with other devolved administration in the same way as I have work with the Welsh Government to ensure that devolution be respect . that conclude the explanation of the amendment table in my name . many colleague be keen to speak , so I be not go to comment on all the amendment in the group ; I will just make two comment about amendment that be not in my name , and allow other people plenty of time to speak . Amendment 42 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , would not only try to remove the backstop for the provision of assist dying in England , but create a number of other issue in relation to commencement . if Parliament choose to give this choice to terminally ill people , there can not be a clause in the Bill that would prevent that from be available as soon as it be safe and practicable . but the amendment would remove the four - year backstop . it would also prevent the appointment of the voluntary assist die commissioner and create a potential commencement gap between England and Wales . give that , I have be strongly advise that the amendment would create serious workability issue . I urge colleague who want an operable Bill to join I in reject the amendment . to finish , I be pleased to support amendment 21 , table by the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) . I thank she for her engagement with the Bill and the amendment , which would require the Secretary of State to prepare and publish an assessment of the availability , quality and distribution of palliative and end - of - life care , as part of the first report on the implementation of the Act , mirror the assessment already require as part of the five - year review . although the Bill seek to address what in some respect be a very specific issue in term of the failing of the current law , it have become part of a much - need broad conversation about death , die and end - of - life care . we all have our own experience of death , loss and grief , and we do not talk about they enough . I be really pleased that the Bill have lead to many conversation up and down the country ; whatever our view , that have to be a positive thing . will the hon . Lady give way ? I have nearly finish . I have have many such conversation over recent month with those who support the amendment , include with palliative care doctor , nurse , hospice staff , GPs , Hospice UK and Marie Curie . I thank they all for their constructive engagement with the Bill . I can not imagine that anyone in this place be not truly grateful for the outstanding work do every day by the wonderful people work in palliative and end - of - life care in every one of our constituency . many of we , if not most of we , will have personal experience of the kindness and compassion that those people have show to our own family and friend . but this be not an either / or conversation . palliative and end - of - life care and assist dying can and do work side by side to give terminally ill patient the care and choice that they deserve in their final day . just as there should not be an either / or for die people , there should also not be an either / or for we as legislator in have to choose between support assist dying or other end - of - life choice . that be why I be support amendment 21 : to ensure that in this place we channel our energy into support all option available to terminally ill people — something that I have always commit to do . it be a privilege to be call at this stage in the debate . my principal reason for vote against the Bill on Second Reading be my concern that vulnerable people would be put at risk . I agree to serve on the Bill Committee to do what I could to allay my concern about that issue and address some of the issue raise by other . I do not think that the revised version of the Bill properly or completely reflect the concern express on a multitude of different occasion . consequently , it do not fully mitigate the risk to vulnerable group . we all recognise that decision making of any kind do not take place in a vacuum and that , in all part of life , we live in a particular context . the Equality Act 2010 recognise that many people face discrimination or unfair treatment as a result of particular characteristic and that reasonable step should be take to eliminate that . it be very clear from the oral evidence session that particular care have to be take to assess the context within which people be make the decision to seek an assisted death : if they suffer from a mental illness or eat disorder , if they be from a low - income or ethnic minority background , if they suffer from a disability or if they be in an abusive relationship . those factor be likely to lead to an increase risk that someone will seek an assisted death that they would not have seek if those factor be not present . in Committee , I and other make the point that it would have be desirable to have receive an equality impact assessment before the detailed work of Committee scrutiny have begin , so that Committee member have a sense of how the propose legislation would impact group that we know can suffer disproportionate level of disadvantage . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not , if that be okay . we be tell that it be not practical to produce such an assessment until after Committee stage , as it would be necessary to assess the impact of amendment make in Committee . the equality impact assessment be finally publish five week ago . I have to say that I be pretty astounded . it do not recognise that certain group in this country may have their life prematurely shorten as a result of this legislation ; instead , it concern itself with the barrier that vulnerable people may face when try to access assist dying . I find that astonishing . do the people who draft the assessment not hear the speech of the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) on Second Reading ? she speak with passion about how the underlie inequality in access to healthcare experience by those from black and minority ethnic background would be exacerbate if the Bill pass unamended . do they not listen to the oral evidence that Dr Jamilla Hussain give to the Bill Committee ? she talk about her experience of work with racialise community in Bradford and their fear of be push disproportionately towards an assist die pathway . do they not listen to the testimony of Dr Miro Griffiths on the experience and concern of disabled people — testimony that have be echo by Baroness Tanni Grey - Thompson and the actress Liz Carr ? I find it inexplicable that the framing of the impact on vulnerable people should be the removal of barrier to access assist dying and not , as it should be , the increase risk to their health and wellbee that the Bill present . I be concerned that we be think about the impact on vulnerable people solely with reference to those who be suffer a terminal illness with less than six month to live . we be not think about the impact on wide society of introduce a concept of life not be worth live and how that might disproportionately affect our more vulnerable community . my new clause 19 and consequential new schedule 2 and amendment 88 seek to ensure that a comprehensive range of statistic be collect about those who seek and receive an assisted death , so that proper and complete monitoring of request can be carry out . it be imperative that we get the most detailed possible picture of who be request an assisted death so that any pattern of disproportionality can be properly detect and address . what assurance do the Bill give to the family of people with a disability , or those with mental health issue and those who be anorexic ? I do not see any . do the hon . Lady see any assurance for those who want to end their life but suffer from those ailment ? I welcome that intervention . I speak extensively about the Bill ' s impact on anorexic people , and I be not satisfied that those concern have be address . I be pleased to support amendment 21 table by my good friend , colleague and constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , which have attract support from across the House . it would require the Secretary of State to report on the impact that the Act have have on the healthcare available to those with palliative and end - of - life care need . I be really pleased that the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) have agree to accept the amendment . I be also pleased to support amendment 103 and 104 in the name of my other constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) . they seek to make all statutory instrument make under the Act subject to the affirmative procedure rather than the negative procedure . as it stand , the Act will come into force in four year ' time with no further scrutiny by mp , yet a whole host of issue that have be delegate to the Secretary of State or have not even be consider will need to be legislate for after Royal Assent . as the Bill stand , the only way for Parliament to scrutinise those power will be to call for a 90 - minute debate on a motion that can not be amend and will be vote on only if the Leader of the opposition call for a vote . make statutory instrument subject to the affirmative procedure rather than the negative procedure would mean that the Secretary of State , whoever that be , can exercise the power delegate to they only with the approval of Parliament . for an issue as sensitive and profound as assist die , I believe that to be an appropriate level of scrutiny . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , but I will make some progress . in a similar vein , I plan to support the amendment in the name of the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , which seek to remove all Henry VIII power from the Bill and from the amendment introduce by the hon . member for Spen Valley . I will support the right hon . member ' s amendment if they be select for a vote , as I do not believe that the use of Henry VIII power be appropriate or necessary . I want to speak against amendment 94 in the name of the hon . member for Spen Valley . it appear to be innocuous , but in reality it would reverse the effect of an amendment that I have accept in Committee . the Bill as originally draft would create an enormous constitutional minefield . it seek to amend the criminal law of England and Wales , which be a reserved matter for the UK Parliament , and simultaneously to make provision for healthcare , which be a matter devolve to the Senedd in Wales . the Senedd debate a motion call on the Welsh Government to support the principle of assist dying , but it be defeat by 19 vote to 26 . the motion be non - binding , but the Bill give the UK Parliament the power to impose on the Senedd in Wales a measure that it have expressly say it do not want . the Bill as amend in Committee would give the Senedd the power to decide for itself when it be ready to bring the Bill into force . amendment 94 would reverse that provision and deprive the Senedd of the right to exercise its legitimate power . it be not just that the amendment would restore the constitutional loophole that the Committee have close ; it threaten to create real problem and risk for Welsh citizen if the Senedd be force to implement the Bill before its devolve healthcare system be ready . I urge fellow member to have regard to the Committee ' s decision and vote against amendment 94 . I will briefly speak in favour of a couple of other amendment . I remain highly concerned at the idea of a future Secretary of State have the power to change the National Health Service Act 1946 — specifically section 1 , which set out the purpose for which the NHS exist — by use regulation instead of an Act Parliament . once that power exist , it can be use not once , but at any time , to make fundamental change to what our NHS be for . I be dismay to see a change of this magnitude make to the Bill in Committee , and I will vote for amendment 12 , in the name of the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , to reverse it . amendment 42 , in the name of the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , seek to remove the automatic commencement of this Bill after four year . for the vast majority of act of Parliament , the Secretary of State decide when to bring the key provision into force , rather than it happen automatically . the effect of the provision of this Bill be that even if we have a covid pandemic or the Secretary of State realise that the adequate training have not yet be complete , it will still come into force — come what may — after four year . that be not safe . it be unusual and reckless , and for that reason I support amendment 42 . amendment 13 , in the name of the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , would require the appointment of the new voluntary assisted die commissioner to be approve by the Health and Social Care Committee . the commissioner , a role create from scratch , will be a high - profile , influential and important position . add a second layer of approval would add more rigour to the appointment process , and provide transparency in the event of any problem that arise . it be vital that member of this House have the opportunity to scrutinise and debate that new role , which be not include in the Bill on Second Reading . thank you , Mr Speaker , for allow I to rise to speak to new clause 6 , which propose a special representative for ethnic minority . I be not white , as some member may have notice . the fact that my presence in this House be unremarkable be in and of itself remarkable . that do not happen by chance ; it happen because of those who come before I . the Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , have spoke powerfully in this debate , and I know that my unremarkable presence here be due to her remarkable achievement . we may not always hold the same opinion , but we have always share the same labour value . she will never know how grateful we all be to she . I may be part of the last generation of mp who can say this to she while she be in the House : thank you . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) have speak powerfully in this debate , and my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall and Bloxwich ( Valerie Vaz ) have table new clause 6 . I know I stand on their shoulder too , and I do not doubt their good intention , but this Bill have nothing to do with the colour of my skin . new clause 6 propose a special representative for ethnic minority . I disagree with the new clause , because the colour of my skin have no bearing here and no special place in this debate . equality datum will be report through the Equality and Human Rights Commission , as set out in clause 51 , and the Secretary of State can already consult community representative . for every person of every skin colour , this Bill give those already die a choice to end their suffering — order . we need to make sure that contribution be tie to the amendment . we be not debate the general point of the Bill — we have go past that . the hon . Gentleman be make more of a Third Reading speech , which he might want to save . it be to the point of where we be — order . I will make that decision . please do not challenge the Chair . I do apologise , Mr Speaker . what I mean to say be that new clause 6 would introduce a special representative for ethnic minority , and I be try to explore why we do not need one . a duty to consult be already include in clause 51 . this be a very sensitive issue . there be datum to support the fact that people from minoritise ethnic group be less likely to trust their health professional — the figure be 18 % among the general public , but as high as 30 % among those group . do my hon . friend not think it be necessary to make sure there be additional protection for those who face additional barrier , such as people from minoritise ethnic group ? my hon . friend make a powerful point , and other hon . member have also speak powerfully about the impact that the Bill could have on ethnic minority . do any hon . member know how many ethnic minority access assist dying in other nation ? I will give way on this point ; the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) raise it early . the hon . member call I to speak . if we do not know , it be probably because those other nation be not collect the datum . my position be that we should be collect the datum , which be why hon . member should vote for my new clause 19 . we do know . ethnic minority be less likely to access assist dying in jurisdiction where it be in place . in Oregon , 10 % of those access assist die be ethnic minority , but they make up 40 % of the population . in California , ethnic minority make up 15 % of people access the option , but 30 % of the population . however , that be not the point . the point of the Bill be to give people the choice to end their life regardless of the colour of their skin . there be no special quality about the colour of my skin that affect my access or the need for a special representative in this case , which be cover by the echr and by the Secretary of State . I be quite perplexed by my hon . friend ' s speech , but I would like to understand whether he have datum relate to the demographic of those jurisdiction compare with the UK . if he do , could he present it to the House to support his argument ? I have spend a lot of time around datum , but I be not sure that I understand the question . will the hon . member give way ? I will make a bit more progress . this have be a heated debate , and hon . member on both side of the House feel strongly about it . I be grateful to Members who come before I , who make my place here possible and who have speak so powerfully and movingly in this debate , but I believe — and the evidence show — that the colour of my skin do not belong in discussion of the Bill . I rise to speak to amendment ( a ) to new clause 15 , table in my name , which I hope hon . member will support . although it may seem technical , it be in fact a simple amendment with a significant impact . it will ensure that there be genuine protection against abuse , proper detection of coercion , and effective scrutiny of how the law work in practice . simply put , it will ensure that death from assist dying under the Bill will still fall within the coroner ' s duty to investigate death under section 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 . I will explain why that be important . like many hon . member , I have be deeply concerned from the outset about how the Bill be draft , its workability , and its impact on the NHS and on the life of vulnerable people up and down the country . to be clear , my view be that one unintended death as a result of the Bill become law be one too many . I humbly ask hon . member who be still consider their position , or who be minded to support the Bill , to consider this point about my amendment carefully : what be an acceptable error rate ? base on the figure in the Government ' s impact assessment , which I think underestimate the impact , even a 1 % error rate would see a minimum of 13 wrongful death in year 1 , with 45 per year by year 10 . a 5 % error rate would see 65 death in year 1 and 227 in year 10 . a 10 % error rate would see 131 death in year 1 and 455 in year 10 . as I say , I think those be low - ball estimate , but they be nevertheless chilling . if this law be pass , it will be exceptionally difficult to say whether there have be error or instance of abuse ; or , at the very least , any error pick up will be but a fraction of the true picture , as tragically those who would testify to the fact will already be dead . my amendment ( a ) to new clause 15 directly address that issue . in England and Wales , a coroner will investigate a death when certain legal condition be meet . this duty be primarily govern by section 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 . Judge Thomas Teague KC , who serve until 2024 as the chief coroner of England and Wales , note : " any death arise as a consequence of the ingestion or administration of a lethal substance constitute an unnatural death which the local coroner be under a statutory duty to investigate " . clearly , assist die meet that definition , and it be right that such death be afford the well possible posthumous judicial scrutiny . do the hon . Lady not feel that the provision in the Bill already have safeguard ? also , and most importantly , do she not feel that put a family through a coronial process when the death be expect be unfair , unjust and completely beyond the bound of what coroner be mean to do ? on the first point , I do not believe that the Bill be strong enough as it stand . on the second point , we be already deal with the fact that family be not even guarantee knowledge of their love one have an assisted death , so I do not think the hon . Lady ' s point be entirely to be consider . as it stand , the Bill would disapply the duty of the coroner to investigate in the case of an assist death that have be carry out in accordance with the Bill ' s provision . new clause 15 , specifically , would amend the Coroners and Justice Act to clarify that assist death do not constitute " unnatural death " for the purpose of the Act . I think it take an extraordinary leap of imagination not to conceive of deliberately self - administer lethal drug as anything but an unnatural death . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way ; I want to support she in what she be say . we be go through a process , as we consider the appalling situation of coercive control in domestic abuse case , where a person who be a victim may not realise they have be a victim until year later . obviously , a person who have go through an assisted death will have no year later . be the amendment not a way of make sure that we guard against the evil of coercive control ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention and I completely agree with he . these be the sort of safeguard that even the promoter of the Bill be say should be there . I do not think that they be in the Bill and my amendment to new clause 15 would make they much strong . my hon . friend be right in what she say . those of we who be oppose to the death penalty , for example , be against it because we do not believe in the infallibility of the state . the state can get thing wrong ; professional can get thing wrong — and when they do , there should be a proven , clear path as to how that wrongdoing can be identify , to try to ensure that it do not occur again . I thank my hon . friend . the statistic I quote early be pretty clear on the point he make . let I make some progress . the work undertake by the coroner be not a box - tick exercise or a bureaucratic hurdle . in the context of assist dying , it be an extremely powerful deterrent against abuse and malpractice . again , to quote Judge Thomas Teague KC , in a letter to the Times on 7 May this year , he say that the removal of " any realistic prospect of an effective inquest . . . would magnify , rather than diminish , the obvious risk of deception and undue influence " . I thank the hon . member ; she be make a very powerful speech . do she share my concern about the removal of the coroner , as state clearly by the Royal College of Pathologists , which speak to her amendment ? I thank the hon . Member and I will come to that point very soon . I will now make some progress ; I will not take any further intervention . I struggle to see how remove automatic oversight of assist death square with a commitment to enact legislation with the " strong safeguard in the world " . by do so , the Bill set a low bar for scrutiny and review , and create an information deficit . put another way , we simply do not know what we do not know . implement a novel piece of legislation such as this without ensure the most robust possible scrutiny of death take place under the Act be astonishing . under the Bill , assist death would be the outlier , as any other intentionally procure death would automatically be review by a coroner . why should death under this legislation be any different ? require automatic scrutiny from a coroner for assisted death should not be view as an add - on at the end of the process or perhaps just a safety net , although it be that . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I have already say that I be not go take any further intervention . I have be very generous with my time . it be imperative to consider the whole picture , particularly regard malpractice or coercion — whether that be on the part of medical professional , family or third party . in write evidence to the Committee , Dr Rees Johnson , a legal expert from Essex Law School , highlight that , in some culture , " decision - making be a collective process involve family and community member . " this approach , combine with the Bill ' s provision for sign by proxy in clause 19 , " potentially create opportunity for coercion or abuse , particularly where family member have conflict financial , social or emotional burden . " without a coroner ' s inquest , Dr Johnson note that " we would lose the ability to fully and properly investigate the possibility of where coercion or abuse take place " in such culturally sensitive situation . investigation of assist death by coroner be not a luxury ; it be a vital safeguard , without which people will fall through the crack . will the hon . Lady give way ? no . beyond coercion , automatic inquest provide vital opportunity to identify other critical issue that may not otherwise be pick up . without a coroner ' s inquest , there would be no post - mortem examination . this be not merely an academic point ; study have show that autopsy reveal that one in four case have be misdiagnose . without this oversight , as his Honour Judge Thomas Teague KC , the former chief coroner , note , there be " no certain mean of know whether the approve substance have lead to a quick and painless death , or a linger and distress one , or even whether it have fail to cause death altogether and the deceased have be dispatch by manual asphyxiation or some other unlawful mean . " I be not sure whether that could be more clear . the view of expert in this area — both the Royal College of Pathologists and the former chief coroner of England and Wales — be that this Bill ' s proposal , as draft , be not fit for purpose . I strongly urge hon . member to support my amendment ( a ) to new clause 15 . rise — may I informally suggest that we aim for speech of around six minute ? I call Paul Waugh to provide a good example . I rise to speak in support of the amendment in my name , which seek to strengthen new clause 14 table by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . why do we want to restrict advertising about assist die ? it be not just because such advert could appear crass or insensitive , or because we worry that private company could profiteer from death , but because advertiser know that they influence choice . the issue of choice , whether it be inform choice , skewed choice , self - coercion or coercive control , as have already be mention , be , in many way , at the heart of the Bill and whether its safeguard be sufficient . my brother work in advertising and he know its power . it be why company spend billion of pound on it , why Google be the giant that it be , why we see lot of advert at Westminster tube station try to influence every single one of we , and why x be full of ad . advertising work because we human being be suggestible , and prone to message , visual cue and hint . old people be bombard with advert for everything from stairlift to care home . one person ' s advert , though , be another person ' s public information campaign . it be not impossible to imagine a future Secretary of State , who passionately believe in the merit of assist dying , authorise such a campaign . it could be a government - approve plotline in a soap opera , or an ad read out by a podcaster that ever so subtly sound like a news item , or even their own opinion . many in this House rightly try to protect teenager from online harm , but the online harm of an ad for a website about assist dying share on TikTok could be a reality without the tight safeguard in my amendment . I thank my hon . friend for speak so clearly about the issue of advertising . do he recognise that this country have ban pharmaceutical advertising because we do not want to have the situation that exist in America where people be pop pill all the time ? there be a reason that we be protect patient and we need to do the same with assisted dying . I completely agree with my hon . friend . the danger of what be happen in America provide a real lesson for we here . as the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) put it , conversation about assist dying should happen in person — between the relevant doctor and the patient . they should not be prompt by a tv ad , or something see on a bus . my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) speak very movingly about the way that IVF service have be commercialise , leave people who be , as he say , " already on their knee " vulnerable to exploitation , so that someone else can profit . I be certain that nobody in this House believe that pass this Bill into law should mean the rise of a similarly aggressive market for assisted death , but it be our role — indeed our responsibility — to deal not only in intend consequence , but in unintended one , too . the real risk in the drafting of new clause 14 be that it allow exception that be not specify in the Bill . a future Secretary of State will be empower not only to make the necessary regulation , but to amend they at any time ; and a future Secretary of State , who do not share the concern of this House , would have the ability to draw the exception so widely as to make the ban worthless . there be a number of similar advertising ban already in place on tobacco product , surrogacy and the late cancer drug be market to the public . in every case , the legislation set out the exception , leave no room for doubt as to how Parliament intend to protect the public . why should the service that this Bill would legalise not be subject to that same legal clarity ? do people who have less time to live not deserve all the protection we have the power to give they from a death they do not truly want ? I can not believe that this Parliament would be content to have that power take out of its hand , and the right of our most vulnerable constituent leave for someone else to decide on some other day . my amendment therefore set out that exception to the advertising ban should be limit to case where a person have request information and where the material be intend for health professional and not for their patient . new clause 14 would allow a future Secretary of State to make provision that would usually have to go through the House in legislation . it be not at all clear to I why that power be need to introduce a ban on advertising . I be very grateful to the hon . Gentleman and I entirely support his argument and his amendment . this be the difference between , in his estimation , accept a request and promote a service . advertising be about the promotion of a service to doubtful , fearful and vulnerable people , and that be precisely what his amendment address . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman , and there be a wide point here about the Henry VIII power in the Bill . this would be the third such power add to the Bill since Second Reading . at that stage , it have none . the Attorney General , Lord Hermer , have say that " excessive reliance " on Henry VIII power " upset the proper balance between Parliament and the executive " , and he be right . away from matter of constitutional principle , I be especially concerned about the practical impact of such a power , which would allow a future Secretary of State to change the law as set out in the Suicide Act 1961 . this be the Act that contain the offence of encourage or assist a suicide . minister have confirm that the Bill leave the offence in place in all case except where a medical practitioner assist a person to die under its provision . we must surely therefore not hand the power to a future Secretary of State to weaken or even abolish that offence without the need for primary legislation . my amendment specify that the Suicide Act can not be amend in that way . I hope that my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley recognise that my amendment do not seek to undo or undermine her new clause , but rather to build on it and to ensure that the ban she intend to deliver do not collapse around the loophole at its heart . my hon . friend be make a powerful point , and there be consensus across the House about ban the advertising of assist die service . his amendment , though , would be slightly limit in that it make just two exception . there would probably need to be a broad piece of work on that , but I commit to work with he if he be interested . the point of my amendment be to make sure that a future Secretary of State would have to come before the House with primary legislation . report stage be not about the principle of the Bill . it be not about whether a Member may , in principle , support the idea of assist dying , as Mr Speaker will point out to everybody who stray from the amendment . it be about the individual Bill before we today . we have to ask : what will it mean in the real world for our very real constituent ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not ; I be short of time . just how strong be the Bill ' s safeguard ? we be not commentator ; we be legislator . our job be to scrutinise , to test and to test again the Bills that come to this place . I spend 26 year up there in the Press Gallery write about politic , but the big difference between they and we be that we have a vote in this place . with that vote , particularly a free vote , come responsibility , and there be no great responsibility than protect the vulnerable from feel they have to end their life . that be why I table the amendment . I be not drive by religion , though I do not believe that those with religious faith should be denigrate or patronise , as they have be during the passage of the Bill . it be worth say that some of those who passionately support assist dying have a faith — a devout faith — that their world view be the right one . I be drive instead by my duty as a legislator to get this Bill right , and by what I see as my moral duty to protect the most vulnerable in society . I believe that my duty be to protect those who do not have celebrity name or campaign group behind they — the people who do not get hear , who do not want to be a bother , who do not want to make a fuss , and who feel at the end of their life that they be a burden on their family but may never say so . I worry about the unheard , the unseen , the ignore and the marginalised . Most of all , I worry about the heartbreaking modesty of that phrase we often hear from old people : " I don ' t want to be any trouble , love . " we need , for their sake , to make sure that the safeguard in the Bill be the strong they can possibly be . I intend to speak only briefly . we have to be really honest about where we be , and the current situation under the legal status quo be not work . it be fail terminally ill people who want choice , compassion and control at the end of their life . right now , those with the mean be travel abroad to die , often alone , away from their love one , without medical support , and when they can physically make it rather than at a time of their choosing . those without the mean face suffer they do not want , or try to take matter into their own hand here in the UK unsafely and illegally . it be not humane , it be not fair and it be not sustainable . I spend two year as a Minister in the Department of Health , with palliative care and end - of - life care as part of my portfolio , so this matter come across my desk on a regular basis . I have have a lot of time to think about it . it be not easy to find an answer and a solution , but we owe it to people to try to do that . that be why I support the Bill : it bring the issue out of the shadow and into a framework of regulation with safety and dignity . I do not know whether the hon . Member have yet have time to read the report from the independent commission on palliative and end - of - life care , which go into how pain and symptom can be palliate . ultimately , the problem at the moment be poor care and poor provision of specialist commission palliative care service . will she read that report to understand the difference that palliative medicine can make for all the example of poor care we have hear about in these debate ? I certainly will read that report . the hon . Member make an excellent point . palliative care be really important and need to be improve . in many case it make such a difference , but it be not the solution for everybody . there be the most heartbreaking case — I have meet people in these situation in my constituency — where that form of palliative care would not have make the difference . that be why I support the Bill , and that begin with new clause 13 . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wonder if you can assist I as I be at a loss as to what amendment we be discuss . I have no doubt that if the right hon . Member give the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) a moment , she will address it quickly , because even member who be contribute do not have long . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be address new clause 13 , which provide the strict regulation of life - end substance and self - administer device . that mean there will be transparency about what substance be use and how they be store , prescribe and deliver . we owe it to patient , clinician and the public to ensure that every part of the process be govern by clinical standard and ethical safeguard . for those physically unable to swallow or self - ingest , the new clause ensure that device to support self - administration can be safely use . without that , we risk create a system that exclude some of the very people it be mean to support . while we must regulate the system properly , we must also reject amendment that would undermine or stall the Bill ' s delivery . amendment 19 propose add suicide prevention , the Mental Health Act and deprivation of liberty safeguard to the code of practice . as the Minister who put much of that legislation through , those be really important topic for I , but this be not the legislation to address they . let we keep the code focus on the Bill ' s core function of ensure a safe , consistent and compassionate assisted dying process . amendment 20 would allow non - adherence to the code to be use in civil or criminal proceeding . that be not appropriate . Guidance be mean to help professional navigate difficult decision , not become a legal trap . if clinician act negligently , exist law already apply . we should not be create new liability for those act in good faith in very difficult condition . I also oppose amendment 97 and 27 , which would require the MHRA to license drug specifically for assisted dying and the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence to recommend they . that would make the Bill unworkable . do the hon . member share my concern that the impact assessment associate with the Bill say : " the safety and efficacy of those substance use for assist dying be currently difficult to assess " ? I be not entirely sure that I agree with that . however , I want to talk about the MHRA , which be just not set up to license drug for end life . clinical trial to support such a licence and MHRA requirement would be impossible . however , the substance likely to be use be already try and test in other jurisdiction and be MHRA approve for other purpose . new clause 13 already provide we with the strict regulation that we need , without put prohibitive hurdle along the path to a compassionate and painless death . amendment 42 would remove the backstop date for implementation , give the Government indefinite discretion over when or whether to put this law into effect . that can not be right . if Parliament pass the Bill , there must be a clear and reasonable timeframe for implementation . the four - year backstop already give Government more than enough time to get this right . remove it simply invite delay . this be a moment to show that we can be both compassionate and competent , and that we can bring an end to the quiet suffering cause by an unjust status quo and replace it with a system that be safe , fair and accountable . let we support new clause 13 , let we reject amendment that would add red tape or stall the Bill ' s progress , and let we show die people that we be ready to treat they with the dignity and trust that they deserve . before enter this place last July as the Member for North Somerset , I have be a pharmacist for nearly 20 year . pharmacist have a unique role in our healthcare system as the group of health professional who specialise in drug usage and safety . that be where I wish to focus my thought today , and on which I offer the House my expertise . throughout the passage of the Bill , we have have the great benefit of learn from a number of international example . in Australia , we have see a carefully design countrywide pharmacy system that have deliver self - administer assisted dying safely and with dignity . the evidence from that experience be greatly reassuring . even in case where the drug be not fully ingest , every patient who make use of the service die peacefully and without complication , with not a single complaint yet receive from any of the family involve . from Switzerland , we have learn from decade of practice , over which they have refine the substance and process involve to the point where complication be now nearly unheard of . their approach demonstrate that with care and rigorous regulation , drug can offer an effective and compassionate route to end one ' s life . that bring I to new clause 13 , introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . the clause outline a comprehensive framework for the oversight and safety of substance involve in assisted dying . as be only right for life - end drug , the public expect the high standard of transparency and the high standard from manufacture to dispense . as someone who have be involve in every facet of pharmacy for the past 20 year , I believe that the clause meet all our expectation . by strengthen safeguard and enhance the workability of the Bill , new clause 13 ensure that healthcare professional can act with clarity and confidence . amendment 72 be similarly important , and I believe it will provide much assurance to those in this place who be uncertain about whether they can support the Bill . by ensure that all regulation make by the Secretary of State under new clause 13 be subject to the draft affirmative procedure , it will ensure that this place continue to play a central role in oversee the safe and effective implementation of this legislation for year to come , and through our collective and continued scrutiny , it offer the opportunity for many million of constituent who have contact we on this issue to continue to have their voice hear and their concern answer . I rise to speak to new clause 14 and amendment ( a ) and ( b ) to that new clause . I be honour to speak after the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) . I also thank the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for work closely with we on the issue of ban advertising . whatever our view on assist terminally ill adult to end their life — and I remain implacably against the potential harm that arise when our society and our imperfect state be give permission to help people kill themselves — I have to acknowledge that there be a majority on Second Reading in favour of the Bill and a majority for close down debate in the last sitting on Report . think ahead to the possibility that this Bill might get on to the statute book , I hope that everyone participate in the debate will recognise that we should not allow the service of the organisation that will arise from the legislation to advertise on television , online , on poster , on TikTok or on any platform that our constituent may see . we can all imagine a scenario where , if the Bill pass without the House agree to new clause 14 , independent contractor and not - for - profit firm , and perhaps even the NHS , will be able to advertise to potential customer , for instance on afternoon television . can you imagine a situation , Madam Deputy Speaker , where , while watch a repeat episode of " one foot in the Grave " , an advert run for a funeral plan company , and be then follow by an advert for an organisation offer service to make it easy to have an assisted death ? member may think the situation I be paint be merely hypothetical , but in Belgium , in fact , the Government themselves be run online advert feature young , healthy woman at a yoga class talk about how they be worried about granny ' s situation , and discuss whether they have consider tell she about the option of assist dying . I be grateful to the hon . member for Spen Valley for table new clause 14 . it be not perfect , but she and I have have a lot of discussion about the wording . I also support the intention behind amendment ( a ) and ( b ) to new clause 14 . it be important that Ministers confirm — as we have hear before , and as I hope we will again today — that encourage assist die under the Bill remain a crime under section 2 of the Suicide Act . however , this require show intent to encourage , and advert might be frame so that they be not so intended , so a specific provision on advertising be need in this legislation . I be also concerned about the scope of some of the exception in unamended new clause 14 . I be grateful that the example set out in subsection ( 2 ) do not refer to potential service user , but there be nothing prevent the Secretary of State from exercise Henry VIII power to exempt they , and do so would negate the point of the prohibition . I would be grateful if the Minister would confirm that the power will not be exercise to create exception for advert target at potential service user . it be the case , as the hon . member for Rochdale mention , that a number of advert ban already exist on the face of legislation , such as the Cancer Act 1939 , the Surrogacy Act 1985 and the Tobacco Advertising and Promotion Act 2002 . such ban be set out clearly on the face of those act . I hope the matter can be resolve . I hope the House today will , at a minimum , support new clause 14 . I hope that the House will also support the strengthen amendment , which I endorse . I hope that Ministers will confirm that these power will never be use to create an exemption to section 2 of the Suicide Act in order to partially allow encouragement of assist dying , as I think it would defeat the whole point of the provision . I rise to speak in favour of new clause 15 , which clarify that an assisted death would not be classify as an unnatural death and that a full coroner ' s inquest would not normally be require . my constituent Anthony Shackleton live with motor neurone disease for six long year . as his condition worsen , his option narrow until there be only one choice that preserve his dignity , autonomy and peace : to travel to Dignitas in Switzerland and end his suffering on his own term . Louise , as his wife of 25 year , and someone who have know he since the age of 18 , do what any love partner would do : she stand by he . she help he on to that plane and hold his hand through the most difficult decision of their life , and now , for that act of love , she be under police investigation . that be precisely why we need new clause 15 . if the Bill be pass , assist dying would be a legal , strictly regulate and monitor choice make by the individual concern . I recognise that the situation face my hon . friend ' s constituent be awful , but we be here today to balance such situation with the choice of people who may not be love as dearly as he . our concern would be about the fact that many of these killing could be mercy killing , and if there be no recourse to the coroner , some people may be take their own life under coercion and pressure that may never be discover , because the full law will not be apply . new clause 15 particularly address the role of coroner . coroner investigate death in which there be a reasonable suspicion that the deceased have die a violent or unnatural death , where the cause of death be unknown , or if the decease die while in custody or state detention . this be not the case with an assisted death , and there would already be strong safeguard in place , include multiple layer of oversight and assessment . the process be cautious , thorough , and heavily safeguard . there be no need to investigate an assisted death , as it be not unnatural . in this country , it be still a crime to help someone die peacefully and with dignity , even when they be suffer unbearably from a terminal illness . will my hon . friend give way ? I will make some progress , thank you . it be still a crime , even when the person be of sound mind and even when it be their deeply consider wish . Anthony want a good death — he want to die peacefully and with grace , without pain and without profound suffering . he get that in a foreign country , far from home and far from family , because our law force people like he to make that desperate journey abroad . that be why I support this Bill and , in particular , new clause 15 , as there be no need for coroner to investigate an assisted death . one of my constituent tell I of her mother ' s pain in her last few month of suffering . it be so painful that she could not bear to be touch by my constituent or her brother . now , both my constituent and her brother be face post - traumatic stress disorder because of the difficult situation they witness while their mum be die . do my hon . friend agree that if they have help she to die in the way that this Bill allow , they should not then be subject to a coroner ' s investigation ? it be not go to help they , and it be not go to help their mother . my hon . friend make a powerful case on behalf of her constituent . new clause 15 be a compassionate and practical clause , ensure that the Bill work not only for the individual make the choice , but for the family they leave behind . let we not turn our back on people like Anthony and Louise ; let we not make criminal out of the compassionate . the death of a love one be always difficult . when someone have go through the legal and safeguarded process of assist dying , it be not right that their family should face an unnecessary , potentially lengthy and distressing coroner ' s investigation . will my hon . friend give way ? I be come to my conclusion . new clause 15 will protect bereaved family such as that of my constituent Anthony , and therefore I urge hon . member to support it . as Mr Speaker have already mention , in order for everybody to get in — well , in order for most to get in — we need speech to be shy of six minute , and intervention to be short . I call Gregory Stafford . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be conscious of those comment and will try to limit my remark to new clause 13 and some of the amendment to it . the Royal College of Physicians , the Royal College of Psychiatrists , the Royal College of Pathologists , the Association for Palliative Medicine and the British Geriatrics Society have all say that there be problem with this Bill , and I have hear nothing from its sponsor , the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) — despite try to intervene on she a number of time — about what she have do to ensure that their concern have be address . this bring we directly to a fundamental concern : namely , the mean by which assist death would be carry out under new clause 13 . the impact assessment for the Bill recognise that " the safety and efficacy of those substance use for assist dying be currently difficult to assess " . do the hon . Member agree that the barbiturate that we be consider be conventional agent ? they have be use in anaesthesia to cause loss of consciousness and suppression of respiration for generation . these be not novel substance . I obviously respect the hon . Gentleman , give his medical background , but as far as I be aware those substance have not yet be use for murder people , which be what we be go to do here . that lead I neatly on — will my hon . friend give way ? I will make a little progress before take another intervention . no safeguard can prevent complication from take medicine . as I be sure the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) know , there can always be complication . in this case , those could include regurgitation of the drug , regain consciousness and seizure . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? can I just finish this point ? during the 27 year that the law in Oregon have be in place , datum be available for only about 36 % of case . however , within that , 59 incident of regurgitation be know to have occur and nine people be know to have regain consciousness . different drug protocol have be use in those 27 year but the efficacy and safety of the drug be unknown , with a time range between ingest the drug and death range from one minute to nearly six day . the lack of define protocol for the regulation , supply and administration of life - end substance be precisely why I have table my amendment ( c ) to new clause 13 , table by the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . my hon . friend be right to table his amendment , which I certainly support . do he agree that the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency would insist that a barbiturate or any other substance use in medicine should be approve for a specific cause ? we can not translate that to a completely different cause or reason for use it . would he also agree that the way to deal with the issue be for it to be properly regulate through the MHRA ? I entirely agree . some of the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) may address that . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make a little progress , but I will give way to the hon . gentleman in a moment . my amendment would require the Secretary of State to prohibit the use of medical device design to induce death by the administration of gas , such as the Sarco suicide pod , which have be in the press recently . that device bypass medical oversight entirely and present an ethical rupture in our current framework . if the Bill proceed without safeguard against such method , we risk open the door to a deeply troubling precedent — one that would erode professional accountability and compromise the integrity of end - of - life care . I would like to share my expertise as a pharmacist with the hon . member . drug can be use for many indication and be quite commonly use in unlicensed situation , where there would be less evidence to support they than in the situation that we be discuss today with new clause 13 : an idea that be incredibly well research , practise and evidence in multiple country . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I do not disagree that drug be use for different thing ; that be not the thrust of the argument that I be make . what I be say — relatively clearly , I hope — be that when the drug we would potentially use in these situation have be use , there have be unintended consequence and side effect . we must ensure that the drug we use , if the Bill pass , be absolutely effective in what they be intend to carry out : namely , the end of the life of the individual . will my hon . friend give way ? this be the last intervention that I will take , as I must make progress . the reason why what my hon . friend have say be so important be that it be yet another important safeguard , particularly give that , as we learn from analysis in the impact assessment , much of this be outsource to private organisation . those organisation need to be regulate in precisely the way he have describe . my right hon . friend be entirely correct . the Royal College of Physicians have say : " medicine prescribe and administer in assist dying must be regulate for safety and efficacy for this use . " if that be a requirement of the Royal College of Physicians , we in the House should take it seriously and put it into the Bill . I will now draw my remark to a close , but I should say that I also support amendment 99 , which would require a report on the drug ' s effect before Parliament approve the regulation , as well as a number of the other amendment , which hopefully would remove the wide - range Henry VIII power currently in the Bill . in the light of all that I have say , I remain deeply sceptical as to whether the Bill , in its current state , provide the robust , protective and operationally sound framework that such a profound societal change deserve . I be grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I my first opportunity to speak in the Chamber on this most important of issue . as I do so , I think of all those who be kill in the horrendous plane crash in India yesterday . I think of their family , their friend and the life they have leave behind . may their collective and individual memory be a blessing . I rise to speak to amendment 42 , table in my name and those of more than 60 colleague from the majority of party in the House , represent constituency in all four nation of our United Kingdom . it would remove the automatic commencement of the Bill ' s provision in England . it be a safeguard , good and proper . as it stand , the entire assisted dying process will commence automatically in England four year after the Bill be pass . notwithstanding some of the comment we have hear , that will happen regardless of how far along the plan and preparation be — plan for the manufacturing and supply of the drug that will be use to end the life of anyone who choose this step ; for the identification and training of those on the panel ; for the impact on the national health service in England and Wales and its budget ; and all the rest . colleague will know that , as the Bill be originally draft , the process would have commence two year after it be pass . I welcome the fact that my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) amend that period from two year to four . that be a genuinely welcome acknowledgment that such a serious and consequential change to every aspect of our country , from our healthcare system to our legal system , should not , must not and can not be rush . therein lie the basis of my amendment . if this change be go to happen , let we do it properly . let we not impose a timeframe that put we in a bind — one that mean we be drive by time over purpose , and the pressure that come with a tick clock , rather than by the need to do it properly . People live in Newcastle - under - Lyme and York Outer , in Buckingham and Bletchley and Pembrokeshire , be count on us parliamentarian — those of we who be concerned about assist dying and those who passionately support it . the Bill ' s supporter have win every single vote , apart from on this issue in Committee . our people be count on we to make sure , if the Bill pass , that it be a success , that it will be consistent and , most importantly , that it will be safe . if the Bill pass , it will introduce assisted dying in the big jurisdiction yet by population . these be uncharted water ; this will not be like anything else . the last thing we should do be rush this process . in Committee , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , who speak excellently early today , table an amendment to remove the automatic commencement deadline for Wales . it provide that assist dying could be roll out only once Welsh Ministers deem that everything be ready for a safe roll - out . the Committee vote by a majority to give that extra safeguard to the people of Wales . if it be good enough for the people of Wales in Committee , it be good enough for the people of England today . we face a situation in which assist dying may proceed in England month or even year before it do in Wales . the provision and system may look different . the process of organise the english system to meet the arbitrary four - year deadline would almost certainly lead to rush decision making . my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley have seek to remedy the disparity , but her solution be not to extend to my constituent in England the safeguard that the member of the Bill Committee — member that she appoint — vote for . no , her remedy be to allow for automatic commencement to happen in Wales as well , remove the safeguard that the Committee vote for . the answer be not to fast - track the roll - out of assist dying in both England and Wales , potentially put the life of some of the most vulnerable at even great risk due to rush decision that be not fully think through . I have not be on these Benches for very long , but I know that argue for the automatic commencement of legislation be generally , in the kind interpretation , unusual . for legislation of this magnitude it be , I be afraid to say , reckless , and reinstate automatic roll - out in Wales when the Committee explicitly vote against it border on the undemocratic . I visit the Isle of Man and meet the sponsor of the Bill there . the House of Keys , which have only 24 member , take three year to get to this point , and the sponsor of the Bill think it will take at least five year to implement the Bill in that much small jurisdiction . my hon . friend make a very good point . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will take one intervention from the other side of the House , and then I will continue . the hon . Gentleman be fast become one of my favourite on the Government Benches , among many competitor . the point that he make be fundamental . if we be go to do this right , we have to do it thoroughly and with independent analysis . have the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) engage in pre - legislative scrutiny and thorough analysis before introduce the Bill , we may have iron these matter out in the first place . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention — it teach I not to take they . I also thank he for help my street cre this morning . he raise an important point . member of this House have be tell that this Bill — it be this Bill we be vote on , not the principle — be rigorously test and refine in Committee . however , we be now see effort to undermine the decision of that same Committee . amendment 94 and 95 serve the singular purpose of undo amendment introduce in Committee to improve the Bill and make it a safe and more conventional piece of legislation , but their implication go beyond just that : they challenge the basic tenet of our democracy . one of the key role at the heart of our democratic system be the role of the or a Minister of the Crown . it be our Ministers who prepare the groundwork for legislation to be enact successfully , and amendment 94 and 95 would completely do away with that core ministerial function . they would see the responsibility for ensure the roll - out of assist dying in Wales — the power that we the people entrust to our Ministers and democracy — take away from they . [ interruption . ] conscious of your cough , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall quickly move towards the end of my remark — I have take half of they out already . in my view , Ministers should be able to lead the roll - out of assist dying in Wales , just as they should in England . it be Ministers , not the supporter of the Bill , who will be responsible for deliver these seismic change to our health and legal system , so it be only right that they decide when the provision become law . amendment 42 would put England back on an even footing with Wales . get this right be literally a matter of life and death . it make sense to avoid any possible pressure on decision making and decision maker and , at the very least , allow Ministers to enact legislation with the usual constitutional power . one death because of a rush decision would be one too many and should give we all food for thought . I do not want it on my conscience that our collective sticking to an arbitrary deadline lead to a death or death that may otherwise have not take place . we must recognise that we can prevent any such situation , and we can prevent that with our vote today . to do so , we must remove the deadline for automatic commencement in England and uphold it in Wales . I urge member to support my amendment 42 and to vote against amendment 94 and 95 . I rise to speak to amendment 3 in my name , which would do the exact opposite of the amendment of the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) — in fact , it would see the commencement period reduce from four year to three year . as a member of the Bill Committee , when we have the initial conversation about increase the commencement period from two year to four year , I be the only person to speak against it , and I push it to a vote . what frustrate I about the situation we be in be that , in effect , we be acknowledge that the reason we be here and debate this Bill be that the status quo be not acceptable . People be push to take decision that they should not be and have to go to foreign country to have opportunity overseas . those of we who support the Bill be broadly in agreement on those principle . a number of thing frustrate I about the four - year period , principally that the people in office — the Government of the day — will not necessarily be here to implement it . I be really hesitant about support a Bill when we do not know who would see through those detail . amendment 3 would reduce the threshold back down to three year , which would still be more than most jurisdiction around the world . country have implement assist die legislation after as short a time as six month , 12 month or 18 month , so three year would still be a substantial increase compare with other country . we be not innovator or leader in this field : there be no reason why we can not take good practice and learn from and speak to colleague around the world . I believe that this Bill have the strong safeguard of any , which be why I think an implementation period of three year would more than meet the requirement . I want to put on record my sincere thank to my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for the way that she have approach this Bill . her willingness to listen to concern from across the House have be evident , not least in new clause 14 , bring forward in the name of the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) and for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) . that be a testament to how we can work together on these deeply sensitive issue . I rise to speak in favour of new clause 14 and against amendment ( b ) to new clause 14 . I absolutely understand the intent behind the amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) . nobody in this House want to see voluntary assist die service be advertise in a way that be insensitive , inappropriate or exploitative . we all want to protect individual , particularly those who may be vulnerable or more easily influence , so I fully share that concern . although I respect the principle behind the amendment , however , I do not believe it offer the right solution . new clause 14 rightly prohibit advertising voluntary assist die service to the public , while give Ministers tightly define power to create appropriate exception through regulation . that be important , because in a healthcare system as complex as ours , we must be able to draw the line between unethical promotion and responsible professional communication . I think the new clause get that balance right . the amendment do two thing that be , in my view , both problematic . first , it try to define in the Bill a narrow list of exception — just two — to the advertising ban , which be reply to individual request , and professional communication that patient be unlikely to see . I share the view of the legal expert who we have hear from that writing such exception into primary legislation would remove essential flexibility and may even hamper the implementation of the measure . minister would not be able to respond to future development or clarify borderline scenario without come back to the House with further primary legislation . the amendment could also limit future minister ' ability to clarify how the system should work in real - world and evolve situation . good regulation should be responsive and proportionate , not fix to a point in time . will my hon . and learn Friend give way ? I will press on . secondly , the amendment attempt to limit the scope of future regulation by bar any change to the Suicide Act 1961 , but that be already cover by new clause 14 , which prevent other change to this Bill , should it become an Act . the amendment be not only duplicative , but close off avenue for future clarity that might be need in the Suicide Act , such as to ensure that offence around coercion or fraudulent practice be properly deal with . in short , the amendment do not add clarity ; it risk confusion . it do not strengthen the advertising ban ; it introduce constraint that could make it hard to enforce with evolve practice . I thank my hon . and learn Friend for give way , give the time constraint . I have a simple but key question : do an advertisement include a leaflet on a gp ' s surgery table or on a door go into the gp ? it seem unclear to I what be information and what it advertisement . that will have to be work out ; I do not have the answer at my fingertip , but other might . I be pleased to hear my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley say early that she be open to work with my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale and other in the Lords to find a workable way forward on all these issue . I hope that he will take she up on that offer . this be obviously an area where constructive cross - party work could ensure that strong safeguard be achieve without unintended consequence . rise — I be essentially finish . I urge hon . member to reject amendment ( b ) to new clause 14 in its current form , not because we oppose its aim , but because we can and must find a well way to achieve it . I be grateful to have my first opportunity to contribute on this Bill . it would not be appropriate to dilate on my profound anxiety about it , but I approach these amendment in the spirit of constructive engagement . I rise to speak to link amendment 82 to 86 , which would strengthen the panel by give it some of the feature of the High Court safeguard that be , regrettably , remove . we hear from the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) that the panel will now be strong because it include a broad range of expertise . the argument against that , of course , be that the High Court be a strong safeguard because it have the power of a court and the independence of the judiciary . my amendment would mean that we do not have to choose between the two : the panel be part of the Bill , but we can have a well panel if we give it some of the feature of the High Court , namely its independence , the calibre of its judge , and its power as a court . Amendment 82 would require all panel member to be appoint by the Judicial Appointments Commission , which nominate judge in England and Wales . currently , the selection of panel member be wholly down to the voluntary assist die commissioner . schedule 2 say : " the Commissioner must make appointment to a list of person eligible to sit as member of panel . " I have absolutely no doubt that the commissioner will be someone of great integrity and experience , but he or she will certainly be a strong advocate of assist dying , as will those who put themselves forward for the panel . that may create an impression that the VAD commission be a self - select group with a particular set of institutional view . if the system be to command public confidence , I believe that appointment would be well administer by an external body , and the Judicial Appointments Commission be the obvious choice . we in this country trust the judiciary , partly because we know that they represent no set of opinion . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his amendment . he be absolutely right to say that this country trust the judge , which be why this House be so enthusiastic about the inclusion of the High Court in the original Bill . do he agree that by reintroduce proper judicial scrutiny at this stage we would be revert to the Bill that the House vote for on Second reading ? it will not surprise my hon . friend to hear that I agree wholeheartedly . I recognise that that be a major reason that many colleague give at early point in our discussion and deliberation . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for his constructive engagement , but he do not vote for the Bill when it include a High Court judge , and now he be try to reintroduce a High Court judge . be there a version of the Bill that he would vote for if it have some sort of judicial oversight other than a commissioner who be a judge or a retired judge , a deputy commissioner who be a judge or a retired judge , and someone on the panel who be a legal expert ? I have be very clear that I have table my amendment in a constructive way to reflect the will that the hon . Lady have express , but to recognise the meaningful dilution in the authority of the process and what can reasonably be amend to invigorate it , base on the principle that I think be intend at the outset . I will revert to the point I be make about the judiciary . they have a commitment to uphold the law , and that should be the standard we be look for when it come to matter of life and death . the Judicial Appointments Commission already conduct appointment for all tribunal , include lie member . the Government ' s impact assessment compare the panel to the mental health tribunal . all appointment to the mental health tribunal , include the non - legal member , be make by the Judicial Appointments Commission , so this would not be a novel function for it . let I move on to amendment 85 , which would ensure that all member of the panel have to take the judicial oath if they have not do so already . if other amendment pass , amendment 85 would be necessary only for the non - legal member , and it be crucial for public confidence that the judicial oath be take . amendment 83 and 84 seek to preserve an important element of the Bill as originally present to the House . they would ensure that the most senior decision - make figure , the chair of the panel , be a High Court judge with all the experience , responsibility and professionalism that that imply . under these amendment , all High Court judge would be automatically eligible . they would need to be currently serve or at least be below retirement age , and would have to be a judge of the high authority and not a deputy judge . member of this House and the public be originally tell that this would be a safe Bill precisely because it would have a High Court judge . that be a persuasive promise , and I think there be a way to honour it , even in the new version of the Bill . I will briefly mention the retirement age , because it be important . it use to be 70 , but judge can now continue until they be 75 . however , there be no age limit for member of the panel . if we be say that an 80 - year - old retired judge be still with it and be able to decide on matter of life and death , why be they too old to help clear the backlog of criminal case ? that seem to be a meaningful anomaly . I have be very clear about the purpose of my amendment . I have table they in the spirit of try to strengthen the Bill and return it to what be intend , so that it can meet the expectation of so many member who support it at an early point . I rise to support a number of new clause and amendment to the Bill . the common thread run through all of they be a need to address some of the gap in the safeguard and oversight . should the Bill pass , I at least want to ensure that we improve its protection and remove some of the risk that it contain . new clause 4 require the chief medical officer to monitor the operation of the legislation , rather than depend solely on the assist die commissioner . alongside the requirement for a High Court judge , oversight by the CMO be remove during the Committee stage . this mean that , essentially , the assist die commissioner would mark their own homework . new clause 4 return the safeguard of independent oversight , which be sensible give the significant concern express by many expert and organisation , which be often neutral on the principle , but concerned about the Bill . they include the Royal College of Psychiatrists , the Association for Palliative Medicine , the British Geriatrics Society , the Royal College of Physicians and many expert such as Professor Jane Monckton Smith , a lead criminologist , Baroness Finlay , Parliament ' s lead expert on palliative care , Sir David Haslam , former head of the British Medical Association and of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence — my previous employer — and many more . all have express concern , even when neutral on the principle of the adequacy of the Bill . hence new clause 4 require an annual report to include " information about the application of the Act in relation to — person who have protect characteristic , and any other description of person specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State . " I fervently hope that that include domestic violence victim . amendment 13 very sensibly add the requirement that the commissioner appointment be not the sole remit of the Prime Minister at the time , by require the consent of the Health and Social Care Committee . this provide a safeguard against ideological and politically motivated appointment , and I would be very critical of anyone who would want to prevent that . amendment 15 address the significant concern about the involvement of private — for profit — provider of assist dying . there be concern that , when there be a commercial relationship between provider , there will be a gaming of the system . that risk compromise the relationship between the co - ordinating doctor and the independent doctor . likewise , the existence of such provider do not allay concern about doctor shopping , as be raise in the previous debate . hence amendment 15 will require private provider to be transparent and provide report on service member , service number , cost and revenue . in previous debate and in the public discourse I have find it very disconcert that , in response to legitimate concern , all that we have be offer — as we have see today — be some promise , unspecified future regulation that will fix the gap — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] my hon . friend be make a powerful point . do she share my concern that most of our discussion today be thrash out in Committee , and now we be be tell that we have to leave they to the Lords , because we can not fix the issue here ? that be a really flawed process . I entirely agree with my hon . friend . to expect mp to improve the Bill without clarity as to what the regulation be or what they will be , and how the service will be deliver without rigorous regulatory oversight be fundamentally wrong . furthermore , the fact that the implementation of the Bill will be automatic in 2029 — a general election year , incidentally — be not realistic when reflect on the many area that still lack detail . hence I support amendment 42 , propose by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , which allow the Secretary of State to determine the appropriate date for the Bill to be implement . this would allow time to make the NHS fit for purpose , to strengthen palliative care , and for Parliament to draft and scrutinise adequate regulation without be rush . similarly , but fundamental to the society in which we live , amendment 12 protect the status of our most dear institution , the NHS . the Bill before we provide Henry VIII power to amend the National Health Service Act 2006 without limit , which could include a specification of charge . if , as Labour MPs , we be commit to the NHS remain free at the point of use , then amendment 12 be vital , as it will require any change to the 2006 Act to be make by an Act of Parliament . the future be uncertain . we must build safeguard in the Bill to protect we from measure that fundamentally alter the fabric of our society . briefly , amendment 27 require the MHRA to license the drug use for assisted dying . research have show that painful and protract death via assisted die drug be not uncommon , with death range from three minute to 137 hour — nearly a week — with up to eight hour to lose consciousness . furthermore , serious side effect disproportionately affect young people . amendment 27 will help to ensure the safety and efficacy of these substance . I will close by quote Sir David Haslam on how we balance some of the individual story use on both side of the debate with the good of society . as we know , NICE have to make the difficult decision to approve or not approve medication and treatment base on a cost and clinical effectiveness model . it be experience in weigh up societal good — [ interruption . ] I will be quick , Madam Deputy Speaker — versus the need and wish of individual . Sir David state : " from individual perspective , assist dying might appear a logical development . but from the perspective of society , it be likely to have a profoundly different impact — with a legion of unintended consequence . . . once we blur that boundary , there be no go back , and the elasticity with which assist die law have be apply in other country should serve as a warning that such legislation be inherently unstable . " in closing , even if we apply all the safeguarding amendment put forward , the Bill will still not be fit for purpose . the Renters ' Rights Bill contain 191 page ; this Bill consist of just 43 . but should it pass , let we at least try to ensure that we have insert some level of safeguarding and oversight . as such , no matter how they stand on principle , I urge hon . member to support the new clause and amendment I have address , and those I have not have time to address , in particular new clause 4 and amendment 12 , 15 , 27 and 42 . let I begin by lay my card on the table . I be , of course , a liberal and have always support the right of individual to choose freely when they want to end their life . I have no religious or philosophical objection to assist dying , and when the debate on the Bill begin , I assume I would vote in favour of it . however , as the debate in this Chamber on Second Reading progress , and in particular as a result of the compelling speech by the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) and for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) , and in particular from the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , I come to the reluctant decision that the state of palliative care in this country and the safeguard against coercion in all its form be not sufficient to vote in favour of the Bill . despite the change in Committee , my mind have not change . I will again be vote against the Bill . however , let I be equally clear that amendment 103 and 104 , in my name and to which I will now speak , be not wreck amendment , but critical to ensure proper parliamentary scrutiny if the Bill become law . the issue of palliative care have be raise across the House . we have be repeatedly tell that this be not an either / or choice , but do the hon . Member agree that without world - class palliative care , that will force some patient down the assist dying route , where otherwise they would have choose well care ? I agree entirely with the hon . member . it would not be a free choice if we make that choice now , give the standard of palliative care . will my hon . friend give way ? this be the last one ; I will . I thank my hon . friend for give way . I share with he concern about the level and quality of palliative care in this country . however , I do not agree that give people the choice to end their life , if they be terminally ill and have be diagnose as die shortly , in any way undermine our ability as a House to insist on an improvement in palliative care . what be more , statistic from other jurisdiction show that once give that choice , people often turn to palliative care . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . give people a choice when they look on the internet and see how awful their death might be because of the shocking state of palliative care be not a free choice . this be an extraordinary Bill . it have 55 clause and 38 regulation - make power , of which five be Henry VIII power — in other word , power to modify primary legislation . as Ruth Fox of the non - partisan Hansard Society , which be absolutely neutral on assist dying , make clear , there be lot of power in the Bill confer on Ministers . why be that a problem ? Lord Hermer KC , the Attorney General , in his Bingham lecture last year , put the point as follow : " Henry VIII clause … upset the proper balance between Parliament and the executive . this not only strike at the rule of law … but also at the cardinal principle of accessibility and legal certainty . " I be afraid the Bill be an example of such excessive reliance . that be a major problem because in large part the safeguard be leave to be decide by regulation . what level of qualification and training will doctor need to have ? how will mental capacity be assess ? who can be a proxy ? what happen if the self - administration of drug go wrong and a person suffer complication but do not die ? when press on the key safeguard and key issue , supporter of the Bill say that they be problem that can be approve later . the same go for how the Bill will actually be deliver . will it be deliver by the NHS , and if so , how ? will private provider be commission , and if so , how , by who and on what term ? will for - profit provider be allow ? all those question go unanswered by the Bill . I have hope that they would be answer in Committee , but they be not , and instead we get even more reliance on delegate power . first , that mean that mps can not make a judgment about assist dying and how it will work in practice . on training , for example , mp might assume that the training provide will be a robust two - week course on assess coercive control , but there be no such requirement in the Bill . indeed , the impact assessment suggest that it would be a short course . secondly , regulation can not override statute and be ultimately bind by it . while it might be reassure that a code of practice must be issue to take into account how depression can impair a person ' s decision making , as the Royal College of Psychiatrists recently remind we , that do not change the fact that impaired judgment do not mean that someone lack capacity . thirdly , leave all those matter to be consider by guidance and regulation place they outside the democratic control of MPs . with limited exception , we will not get a vote on those regulation , and will have no input , directly or indirectly , in formulate they . the case for the defence might be that reliance on such guidance and regulation be inevitable with a Bill of this complexity , but the experience of other common law jurisdiction suggest that that be not the case . in Victoria , the first australian state to legalise assist die , there be only 20 page of regulation and much more have be include in the Act , which be necessarily long than the Bill before we . that be a good thing , as it mean more parliamentary scrutiny . I wholly understand why it be not possible for the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) to draft a Bill as detail as the Australian Act before Second Reading , but I have hope that with the help of Government resource , those gap would have be fill in Committee and on Report . sadly , that be not the case . [ interruption . ] I have much more to speak about , but heed your cough , Madam Deputy Speaker , let I say clearly that I will vote against the Bill , but even if member disagree with I , they should please vote for my amendment . I begin by thank my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) who have exemplify the integrity and transparency that we need in public service . I will speak about amendment 82 to 86 , which be introduce by the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) early , because as a former lawyer , they concern I . in Committee , the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) be clear that the panel ' s decision will be subject to public law principle . that will include procedural propriety and an absence of bias , include the appearance of bias . my concern be that the panel be deliberately design to be inquisitorial . it be intend to collect information ; it be not mean to be adversarial like a court . will the hon . Lady give way on that point ? no , I will make some progress . require a judicial oath would be inappropriate because the panel be not perform a judicial function . it be a specialist , administrative panel whose first priority must be focus on safeguarding and the review of evidence . will my hon . friend give way on that point ? no , I will make some progress and expand on my point . disqualifying retired and deputy judge would only shrink the pool of experienced candidate , and I do not believe that those change would make the process safe , more effective or well . instead , they would make it more difficult to appoint expert to allow the panel to function as the necessary safeguard that it need to be . finally , I turn to the most important aspect of the Bill , which be those who be affect directly . opponent present hypothetical , but I have hear real story from my constituent who support the Bill . one constituent tell I about her husband who die of metastatic prostate cancer . he want to die at home , and despite the effort of a dedicated palliative care team , his final month be mark by excruciate pain . our constituent deserve well . they deserve the choice to say goodbye in peace , surround by love one , without unbearable pain . for I , this debate be about whether the status quo be acceptable . after hear these story and listen to lawyer and doctor , I know that it be not . if we vote in favour of the Bill , our constituent must be able to expect that it will be bring into law quickly . I therefore oppose amendment 42 . the british public overwhelmingly support the Bill . they be look to this House for courage and leadership . that be why I will vote for the Bill , with the amendment that strengthen it . let we bring dignity , peace and choice to those face the end of their life in difficulty and pain . before I come to the substantive part of my speech , I would like to pick up on the comment of the hon . member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) . I have sign the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) . I support they because I think the panel need strengthen . it be not the case that court have to be adversarial . tribunal be set up to be inquisitive . in fact , the mental health tribunal be set up to be inquisitive . that be why , in Committee , I table amendment to use a tribunal panel as the mechanism for scrutinise decision making . it have be a real pleasure to listen to the debate , particularly in relation to the prohibition of advertising , because the debate start to move to focus on the issue of suicide promotion and prevention . I have be quite concerned from the beginning that that have not be part of what we have be talk about . duty to prevent suicide — whether they be doctor ' duty under article 2 of the european convention on human right , the NHS ' s clinical duty around suicide prevention , or duty relate to the Mental Health Act 1983 — be a blind spot in the Bill . the reason why the issue have not be focus on until now be that the Bill have be frame as the assist die Bill , as oppose to the assist suicide Bill . I blame myself in part for that , because I start by call it physician - assist suicide , but then I start use the term " assist dying " because it be in common parlance and it be what everyone be use . the problem be that it frame it as something else . it frame it as reduce the die process as oppose to what it be , which be an act to end somebody ' s life . that be why the Bill amend the Suicide Act , and it be why I have table similar amendment on how it be conceptualise . I take issue with some of the language be use . we have hear the word " murder " , " kill " and " suicide " . twenty - three year ago next week , my husband die of terminal cancer . he be in extreme pain and be give morphine to relieve it . as the pain get bad , he be give more morphine so that he could die gently and not in complete agony . this be about help people die in a civilised way , and help their family to not go through the horrendous experience of watch a love one die in agony . to call it murder and killing be so wrong , and we have a duty to mind our language with this Bill . it be about help people die quickly and with dignity . it be assist die . order . before Dr Spencer resume , I note that this have be a well - temper debate . let we keep it so . we know our constituent be watch . I thank the hon . member for her intervention . of course there be situation in which a decision to end one ' s life be perfectly understandable — indeed , rational . I spend my career look after people , many of whom present to I and to medical service with thought about want to end their life . many of they have mental illness . some have terminal illness . the fundamental problem with the Bill be that it have a complete blind spot for those people who be highly vulnerable . it be scandalous that we have get to this point and be still have a debate about the core concept . the Bill should have be deal with properly from the start with a royal commission or a review so that we do not get to the point where we be still debate core principle on Report . over the past month , I have table amendment that I think would help get the Bill — if it become law — to a point of ensure that the most vulnerable be protect . my amendment 19 and 20 would work to edit the code of practice for the Bill to ensure that there be clear guidance with regard to doctor ' duty , suicide prevention , article 2 on the protection of human life , and interaction with the Mental Health Act . the Bill be currently blind on what to do with people detain in hospital and patient present with suicidal thought . I have great concern that many people who be quite unwell psychologically will start present to service seek an " assist death " rather than present with suicidal ideation . I will not be the only person in this place who have lose someone they love to suicide . in listen to what have be say recently by the Royal College of Psychiatrists , which be not oppose to the Bill in principle , the penny drop for many of we that many people give a terminal diagnosis will have mental health issue that come with that . how do the hon . member think we can distinguish between a person who choose to end their own life because of a mental health issue cause by despair from have a terminal illness and somebody who want to end their life because of despair cause by something else ? do that not blur our approach to the importance and sanctity of life and to prevent suicide in every circumstance ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . of course , these be difficult thing to disentangle . People will say , " you would say this , wouldn ' t you , Ben ? " , but we should get the person in front of a psychiatrist or a clinical nurse specialist work in psychiatry . this be what psychiatry do ; this be what it be about . that be why I table amendment to ensure that the person be put in front of a psychiatrist as part of the process to deal with the blind spot . [ interruption . ] apology , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I will finish now . my amendment would ensure that the code of practice clarify the interaction with service . will the hon . member give way ? I think I be push it . I try to intervene on the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) to ask what she think about that . she be welcome to intervene on I now if she have further point to add . otherwise , I ask the Minister to address those point . I rise to speak to amendment 27 , which would require the dose and type of lethal drug to be properly license by the MHRA . it be important that I put it on the record that I do not think the Bill be safe . it do not provide adequate safeguard . most importantly , it will deepen and exacerbate inequality . on that , I know that I speak for ten of thousand of disabled people who rightly say , " we need assistance to live , not to die . " throughout the passage of the Bill , hon . member across the House have receive many letter and briefing from lead expert , include this week a letter from over 1 , 000 doctor across all area of medical practice express their clear view that the Bill do not provide answer on how we can improve management of the end of people ' s life . they say that the drug expect to be use in assist death should undergo rigorous testing and approval , as would be require for any other prescribed medication . those requirement be miss from the Bill . indeed , there be nothing in the Bill require lethal drug to be regulate by the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . that be contrary to good medical practice . many of we will have hear that in Oregon , complication with drug use for assist dying occur in about 7 % of death and include vomiting , seizure and prolonged death of up to 137 hour . where be the requirement in the Bill to inform patient about how those risk , include prolong dying , might be manage ? where be the plan to identify the most acceptable medication ? if they have not already do so , I urge hon . member to consider this letter , sign by many lead expert . if we do not listen to they — the very people who would have to implement the Bill — who will we listen to ? on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? I will not take any intervention . it be clear that the Bill do not protect vulnerable patient from coercion . in 2021 , the UN ' s human right expert raise concern that , even if assist die be restrict to those with terminal illness , disabled and old people may feel subtly pressure to end their life due to social attitude and lack of appropriate service and support . across the House , we know that support for disabled and old people be inadequate . we know that disabled people continue to face disproportionate level of poverty , isolation and hardship . until that change , I urge every Member to think and not vote for the Bill . I rise to speak in support of new clause 13 to 15 , table by the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , to support amendment 94 and 95 , and to oppose amendment 42 . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Spen Valley for her compassionate leadership and immense hard work , to the member of all view who serve on the Bill Committee for their thoughtful and hard work , and to those who have work behind the scene to scrutinise the Bill and contribute to the debate . I thank all the constituent who have be in touch with all of we . I be sure that , like I , hon . member have carefully reflect on those contribution and take they into account . it be clear that the status quo be not acceptable . that be why it be right that we have this legislation before we , and that we be scrutinise it so carefully and look at it in such immense detail . turn to new clause 13 , regard the regulation of substance for use in assisted dying , those substance obviously have to be properly regulate , although it be equally obvious that they can not be subject to conventional clinical trial in the same way as other medicine , which be why the proposal to make that process go through the MHRA be inappropriate . the regulation provide for in new clause 13 will ensure that that critical part of the process be carry out with the high possible level of scrutiny and harm prevention . it be essential that there be transparency and assurance of the process , from manufacture all the way through to administration , which be what new clause 13 do . I be interested in what the hon . Lady say about the safety of those drug . do any adverse event datum exist globally to quantify how much harm and suffering could be cause while induce the die process ? I thank the hon . member for raise that issue and give I the opportunity to speak about the detailed evidence give by my constituent Emeritus Professor Sam Ahmedzai , with whom I speak at length yesterday about precisely this detail . I have review a number of table of datum about this . any substance have side effect but , as the comment make today have indicate , in reality those substance be be hold to a far high standard than substance routinely use in palliative care . we have to recognise that there be a huge amount of evidence about the efficacy of the substance that be talk about in relation to assisted dying . there be a huge amount of publish , peer - review evidence about the effectiveness of those substance , and people like Professor Ahmedzai , who have 40 year of experience and be a global expert in this area , point out that we know how to assist people to have a peaceful , compassionate death effectively , and that be what the Bill be about : help people who be terminally ill to die with dignity and to face those final moment with the support , love and care of their family around they ; not in agony , but in whatever degree of peace be possible when face death . as the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) say , new clause 14 , which relate to advertising , have be develop in consultation , as a result of concern raise by opponent to the Bill , to try to ensure the crucial fact that assist dying be not an advertised service . there be a crucial distinction between advertising and information , and this new clause will ensure that assisted die remain a careful , clinical process and not something that would be promote commercially . it be a balanced , cross - party safeguard support by people on all side of this debate . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be very short of time , so I think I have well continue . turn to new clause 15 , which relate to the role of coroner , if the Bill be pass , assist dying would be a very strictly regulate process — the choice of an individual ; not a death cause by other , but by the individual themselves . as Aneez Esmail have point out , this would be the most scrutinise type of death in the country , and it therefore make no sense to require another legal process at the end when there have already be multiple layer of scrutiny before the death . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be so sorry , but we be very short of time . new clause 15 be a compassionate and practical clause . there be strong safeguard already in place , and require a coroner ' s inquest would go against the spirit of compassion that should be drive we all . I will briefly turn to amendment 42 , table by the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , which would remove the backstop commencement . essentially , the amendment would leave it in the hand of the Secretary of State to decide when , or if , the Bill come into effect . that would go against the will of the House . if the House pass this Bill , it be perfectly reasonable and workable for the detail of it to be work out within the next four year . we have already double the length of time allow for that to happen . Amendment 42 be effectively a wreck amendment that seek to kick the Bill into the long grass . [ interruption . ] that would be its effect . to conclude , I will briefly address the misconception that seem to have inform some of the comment I have hear in today ' s debate , which be the assumption that family would want to pressure family member to die quick . my mum be a specialist palliative care social worker , and she have tell I that in all her year of practice she have never experience that happen . it be the other way around . rise — I be sorry , but I be conclude . we be each speak from our own experience and from the heart . rise — order . the hon . Lady have make it clear that she be not take intervention at this time . the evidence show that it be die people themselves , face the end of life , who wish to have the choice . only small number of they will take up that choice , but it be crucial , humane and compassionate for we to offer they the choice . assisted dying be complementary to palliative care , not contradictory , and this Bill have be through a huge amount of scrutiny — far more than any other Bill in this session . therefore , I deeply hope that the House will pass this compassionate , humane , clearly draft and tightly structured Bill , to offer a dignified death to those who be face death . I rise to speak to my amendment 13 , which concern the appointment of the voluntary assist die commissioner . in Committee , it be decide that the Prime Minister would appoint the voluntary assist die commissioner , and that the appointee would serve for five year and be responsible for appoint the assist die review panel . the commissioner would also oversee the training of panel member , give they guidance on the procedure to be use and , crucially , decide when a case that a panel have refuse should be refer to another panel for reconsideration . accord to the Bill , the commissioner will not be act as a judge , but they must be a current or former senior judge of the Supreme Court , Court of Appeal or High Court . however , they be not require to have any expertise in medicine or healthcare . importantly , follow our consideration in Committee , the Bill no long require that the chief medical officer be responsible for monitor whether or not the assisted die regime complie with the law . that responsibility have now be transfer to the voluntary assist die commissioner , so the person in charge of oversee the process and set up the panel will also be the person decide whether the Act be be administer correctly . give the scandal we have see in healthcare over many year , from infected blood and medicine that should not have be prescribe to what happen at Mid Staffs hospital , it be clear that have that independent , robust oversight from the chief medical officer be a good way forward if people be go to be able to trust this legislation , if it come into law . my hon . friend make a valid point . the point of my amendment , as I will come on to , be that we need to ensure as much scrutiny as possible in this regard . from what I have outline , this be clearly an exceptionally important post , which carry great responsibility and significant power ; indeed , it seem the postholder will require the judgment of Solomon to be able to fulfil their role . it be therefore surprising that , as the Bill stand , there be no requirement for pre - appointment scrutiny by the relevant Select Committee , despite the profile of the post and the controversy it will inevitably attract . consider that such pre - appointment scrutiny be require for the chair of the Competition and Markets Authority , the chair of the BBC , the chair of the Charity Commission , the Information Commissioner , the chair of the Care Quality Commission , the health service commissioner for England , the chair of the Judicial Appointments Commission and the chair of the UK Statistics Authority , the omission of such scrutiny in this case be clearly a serious oversight , which my amendment seek to remedy by ensure that the correct Select Committee have the power of scrutiny . in my view , we need to guard the right and privilege of Parliament jealously . we must ensure that Parliament be involve in the scrutiny of this legislation go forward as much as we possibly can . the Bill itself require this to be as rigorous and transparent as be possible . no matter what side of the debate we be on , it be important to ensure that the Bill be as strong and as good as it possibly can be ; we owe it to the people who send we here — the people who have be write to we in such great number . my amendment seek to strengthen the Bill in respect of the voluntary assist die commissioner . I refer right hon . and hon . member to my entry on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — I be an NHS consultant paediatrician . the debate so far have focus primarily on ethical consideration , legal framework and who will be eligible — the who , the when and the why — but I want to focus my remark on the how . as a doctor , I know that various drug in different combination can be fatal ; in other word , there be more than one way to kill people . which would be the good drug , if that be what we wish to do ? which would be the most comfortable , and how do we know ? some form of assist die use neuromuscular blockade , which , in common parlance , mean that they paralyse the body . imagine a situation where someone in a lot of pain be give such a drug ; from the outside they would look relaxed and peaceful as their muscle relax , but inside they would be in a lot of pain , and unable to express that to anybody else . do we want people to be comfortable and to know that they be comfortable , or only to appear comfortable to we ? clearly , we want they to be comfortable inside as well . we therefore need to have drug that be properly understand and regulate for this purpose . assisted dying be often portray as safe , peaceful and controlled , but the reality in comparable country where it have be legalise so far be more complicated . technical difficulty frequently arise , lead to complication cause great suffering , require intervention and potentially lead to a prolonged and painful death . a report in the BMJ by Dr Suzy Lishman , former president of the Royal College of Pathologists — who , I should say , work at the same trust as I — show that there be a lack of reliable datum on the effectiveness and safety of the drug use , largely due to inconsistent reporting in jurisdiction where such dying be legal . in Belgium it be estimate that only 52 % of euthanasia case be report to the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia . during a Select Committee visit in the last Parliament to Oregon to discuss assist dying , which I and two other hon . member from the Labour Benches go on , we hear about the complication be unknown in 71 % of case . no healthcare professional be present when the drug be give so we could not really know , and we do not even know if the drug have be take in some case . where we do , we find a history of seizure , vomiting and prolong death . on have be give the drug , patient in nine case in Oregon in 2023 have reawaken later . how they feel in the intervene time be difficult for we to know . in Washington , a 2018 report find that 31 % of patient take more than 90 minute to die . I also remind hon . member that an absence of evidence that thing be not go well be not evidence of an absence of thing go wrong . I thank the hon . Lady for so eloquently describe some of the variation in the use of drug in the case of assist dying . in normal practice we have a yellow card scheme , which allow for any adverse event from ingestion of prescribe medication to be report . be it her understanding that , under the current proposal , that would not happen for assist dying ? be she also aware of a review that show a great variation in the range and dosage of drug use ? I think one of the key problem with this form of intervention , compare with other , be that we can not ask the patient afterwards how that feel . we can not get their feedback , because they be dead . if we be go to give they thing such as neuromuscular blocker or sedative , we may not be able to tell what they feel . there be physiological way in which we can monitor patient and get some idea — perhaps in their heart rate or blood pressure — but we will not be do that . that is , therefore , one of the reason for my table the amendment , to ensure that the drug be properly regulate by the MHRA , so that we know that they have be properly test on the purpose for which they be to be use . will the hon . Lady give way ? will the hon . Lady give way ? I do not have much time and I do not want Madam Deputy Speaker ' s cough to return . [ laughter . ] if one examine the litany of drug involve in other jurisdiction where assist dying be legal , it make for troubling reading . it be often an ad hoc cocktail of lethal substance , include sedative , analgesic , cardiotoxic agent , neuromuscular blocker and antiemetic . there be no internationally agree drug regime . jurisdiction such as Oregon , Canada and the Netherlands use vary combination of barbiturate , sedative , opioid and antiemetic . in 2020 , the official Oregon report state that , compare with single barbiturate , " all drug combination have show long median time until death " . as the Bill currently stand , doctor will have to consider prescribe untested drug or drug combination , which could potentially breach the General Medical Council prescribing guidance that a doctor must be satisfied that the drug serve the patient ' s need . to address some of those concern , I have table several amendment . amendment 96 and 97 ensure that no drug can be approve under the Act unless there be a scientific consensus that it be effective and do not cause undue pain or side effect , and that it have be specifically license for that purpose by the MHRA . I can not really understand why anyone would disagree with that . amendment 98 clarifie that the Secretary of State be not compel to approve any drug if , after consultation , it be conclude that no substance be appropriate or safe enough to meet the standard . amendment 99 , alongside amendment 100 , mandate that before any regulation be lay before Parliament , a comprehensive report must be provide . that report must include time to death , possible complication include pain , and any likely side effect of the propose substance . again , I can not see why that would be controversial , because surely we all want everybody to be fully inform and make fully inform decision , and that be part of make an informed decision . amendment ( b ) to new clause 13 require any medical device for self - administration be approve by the MHRA and that the Secretary of State consult the MHRA before make any regulation . that be a basic safeguard that we would expect in any medical intervention , and it should be a non - negotiable condition here . finally , amendment 42 remove a time limit and therefore the pressure on the Secretary of State . I understand other people ' s concern about that . there be often a narrative that it will lead to patient be able to die at a time and in a place of their choosing . however , the regulation in the Bill require the doctor to stay with the patient from the moment the drug be give until they be dead . we have hear that that could take quite a long time . do we really have enough doctor to do this at people ' s home at a time of their choosing ? at the moment , I do not think we do , and I do not see how , in a short period of time , that will be achievable either . I stand in support of new clause 20 and 21 , along with amendment 89 and 90 and 92 to 95 , all of which be in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . colleague need not fear — I will not speak to all of they . I be a proud Welsh MP , and a lot of the debate today have centre on difference or confusion about the distinction on devolution on aspect of the Bill . focus on new clause 21 and consequential amendment 90 , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley and to the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) for their work together on this issue to ensure that people in Wales can access the assist dying process in the Welsh language , if that be their preference . in the last few month , I have meet with many constituent about this Bill , include medical professional and palliative care consultant . one of their overarching concern be a fear that the language barrier may inadvertently impact on the ability of a relevant person in Wales properly to access and understand the assisted dying process . I be grateful to those constituent , include Dr Siwan Seaman and Professor Mark Taubert . accordingly , new clause 21 and amendment 90 be important . they seek to replace clause 47 and provide Welsh version of the form for the first or second declaration , the report about the first or second assessment of a person , and the final statement . far , they stipulate that where a relevant person inform the voluntary assist die commissioner that they wish to communicate in Welsh , the commissioner must take all reasonable step to ensure that that wish be respect and that communication by the relevant assist die review panel be in Welsh . these be important amendment , as they be about accessibility and respect , ensure that language be never a barrier to compassionate end - of - life care . they uphold the principle of linguistic equality , which be well - establish in public service in Wales , and I trust that that should not be controversial to colleague when they come to vote later on . as a Welsh MP , I be pleased to see the inclusion of amendment 92 , 93 , 94 and 95 . while they may appear to be small amendment , they be important . as my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley say , they fully respect the devolution settlement by ensure that Welsh Ministers have all necessary power on devolved aspect of the Bill — health — while retain the power of UK Ministers over aspect that be not devolve . I think that be slightly misunderstood early by some in this debate . take together , the amendment provide clarity and legal certainty and offer reassurance to patient , clinician and Government agency in Wales . that principle should be uncontroversial . I know from my own discussion with the Welsh Government and the Welsh Health Minister that he be extremely grateful for the interaction he have have with my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley , and he be confident this measure be workable from the Welsh perspective . new clause 5 seek to mandate that the Secretary of State must , within six month , publish a report set out the impact of this legislation on the civil procedure rule and probate proceeding . during the debate and the stream of evidence we have hear , I do not recall a suggestion that this Bill be likely to result in any serious change to those specifically reference matter . on the contrary , England ' s CMO , Professor Sir Chris Whitty , warn against create a " bureaucratic thicket " , say that the good safeguard be the simple one . let we keep that at the centre of our mind when we consider this legislation and avoid insert amendment that be no doubt well - intentione but would create such a thicket . I conclude by share one story from a constituent of mine who be focus very much on safeguard , which have be the debate on all these amendment and new clause . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , because I want to finish up ; I appreciate the hon . member ' s forbearance . that constituent be Claire o ' Shea . Claire be originally diagnose with irritable bowel syndrome ; it be only much later that it be realise she have stage 4 cancer . within an hour of this House vote to pass this Bill on Second Reading , Claire message I to say : " what a powerful debate today . it ' s hard to say I ' m ' pleased ' as it ' s a terrible issue to have to contemplate . but it ' s such a relief to know the next stage be open and hopefully allay the fear of those talk about safeguard . " Claire lose her battle with cancer last month , so I be pleased that we be here again , discuss the specific of this Bill and talk about amendment in good faith that either side think will enhance its safeguard . in honour of Claire and for all those like she , I urge colleague to support the amendment and new clause I have outline and to support the Bill itself . I rise to speak in support of amendment ( a ) to amendment 77 , which be in my name . I should also refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests about my involvement with the Royal College of Psychiatrists . new clause 13 , we be tell , be a replacement for clause 34 ; I hope that member have take the time to compare the two . new clause 13 contain even more power than clause 34 . it follow the trend of this Bill : instead of more detail be add , more power be add . it seem to I that the line be , " there be some issue that we ' ll sort out later , " but that this place will not be involve in that " later " . what be particularly concern be that the power that the Bill create contain no explicit limit or guide principle by which they be to be exercise . nor do we have the benefit of a policy paper from the Secretary of State say how he intend to exercise those power or how his successor will . I believe that the provision relate to " approve substance " — clause 25 and new clause 13 — face a real problem . as Dr Greg Lawton , a barrister and pharmacist , tell the Committee in write evidence , the lethal substance intend to end life be not medicinal product within the meaning of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 . that definition be itself derive from EU law , which state that " the term ' medicinal product ' … must be interpret as not cover substance whose effect merely modify physiological function and which be not such as to entail immediate or long term beneficial effect for human health . " that create the real problem : if the substance be not medicinal product , why do the Bill provide that pharmacist be to be involve in their preparation and why would doctor be supply they ? new clause 13 ( 4 ) seek to get around the problem by give the power to the Secretary of State to amend the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 so that the substance fit in . the impact assessment tell we that the Government have no plan to conduct or rely on the sort of scientific study normally do for drug approval or for the MHRA to be involve . as a pharmacist , I should say that the drug to be use for assist dying be commonly use in pharmacy now . it would be obvious for pharmacy to supply those drug in some way , shape or form . I accept the hon . member ' s point about medicine be use , but he will , I hope , accept my point : how would the same study use to approve treatment be use to approve their use for death ? I think the hon . Gentleman say in an early intervention that those medicine would then be use off licence , to the risk of the prescribing doctor and the person use they . that be where the risk fall back on the individual rather than be cover by anything in the Bill . that be where my regret come . I understand the need to treat the substance as medicinal product in England and Wales if it be the will of the House to change the law here ; what I can not understand be why the law should change the situation for the rest of the United Kingdom . that be the basis of my amendment to amendment 77 . the House be not vote for assist dying in Northern Ireland , so it have no locus to change the definition of a medicinal product in Northern Ireland in order to accommodate this Bill , which we have be tell apply to England and Wales only . or be it the intention of the Bill ' s sponsor or those behind she to extend it to Northern Ireland at a later date , use some of the Henry VIII regulation in it ? there be a further issue in Northern Ireland . we be still in part subject to EU law , and I would be interested to know whether the Government have consider that aspect . can the Minister really change , by ministerial diktat , EU law in Northern Ireland when it come to the use of these substance ? if so , why be he not be grant such power in other area of significance to Northern Ireland ? why only this ? why have so much government time previously be spend on medicine regulation and supply for Northern Ireland ? why do the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , as the Minister of State for Health , and I , as the Minister of Health in Northern Ireland , spend so much time on that ? to that extent , I ask the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) and the Minister : what engagement have there be with the Department of Health in Northern Ireland or the chief pharmaceutical officer for Northern Ireland ? or be this another part of the Bill that be be put in to meet the promoter ' s need without any background or engagement ? in conclusion , the application of those provision to Northern Ireland also have implication for the conscience protection . if , as a result of regulation make under those provision , pharmacist in Northern Ireland be require to be involve in the manufacture or preparation of such substance , they will not have the benefit of the conscience clause , as that clause have not be extend to Northern Ireland . I therefore oppose the extension of those provision to Northern Ireland and Scotland . I will also oppose amendment 77 and ask hon . member to support amendment ( a ) to amendment 77 in my name . I rise to speak in support of amendment 15 , which be table in my name . I will minimise my comment to maximise the time available to other hon . member . owe to the widespread unease among NHS practitioner and the grow number of concerned voice about the Bill ' s shortcoming , if it be pass by the House — I still hope that it will not be — it be likely that assisted death will take place away from the public sector . indeed , the Bill do not prevent assist death from be outsource to private company , and there be no definition of what " reasonable remuneration " mean in return for help to end someone ' s life . my amendment seek to ensure that provider publish annually the number of people to whom they have provide those service , the cost of do so , and the revenue receive in return . many hon . member will be guide by their religion when they vote on these issue . although I deeply respect that , I be not a person of faith . if there be a booming baritone voice appeal to my conscience , it be not that of God , but that of Nye Bevan , who be concern about the commodification of care . in his time , the worry be about the role of the market in extend life . today , my concern be about the potential role of the market in end it . throughout the Bill ' s passage , we have discuss different kind of coercion by individual on the life of people whose protection be entrust to we . as a Labour MP , I do not think that we can have this debate without address the economic coercion experience by the vulnerable in our society . as someone who have sit beside a bed and pray for mercy , I genuinely understand the attraction of argument around freedom of choice , but argue for that as a fundamental principle in isolation , without also acknowledge the economic , social and cultural context in which people make such choice , be not a labour approach to the issue . do the hon . Member agree that no matter how many new clause we introduce , we can not militate against people be vulnerable , particularly financially ? accord to the charity Mind , 2 . 7 million people in this country have consider suicide because of financial hardship . how could we militate against that ? the hon . Member make an important point that we have to consider . we must recognise that , as he say , people ' s choice be limit by the unfair distribution of wealth , the injustice that disable people face throughout their life , or the attitude of the powerful in society towards those who be less fortunate . if my hon . friend look at the statistic , he will see that it be usually the well - off in society who choose assist dying , not the less well - off . I will come to that point shortly . we have a duty to ask whether the poor and most vulnerable will be coerce into choose assist die over palliative care because of economic disadvantage . will they be exploit by those with a financial interest in their choosing to end their life ? will their death become a commodity ? if we be really go to pass legislation that allow someone ' s death to become a matter of business , we must have full transparency on those financial motivation , and my amendment 15 would require that . if we be really go to pass legislation that allow someone ' s death to become a matter of business , we must have full transparency on those financial motivation , and my amendment 15 would require that . carer in the private sector be not bad people any more than people work directly in the NHS , but private healthcare operate in a context . the evidence that profit influence the moral choice make in the care and treatment that be already provide in this country be overwhelming ; this be not a hypothetical concern . for example , a systematic review publish by the BMJ find that private equity ownership of healthcare be associate with low standard of care . around the wonderful miracle of IVF there be an industry profit from people ' s desperation as they start life rather than end it . already , at the end of life — this relate to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) — choice in palliative care be limit by economic status , with the wealthy more likely to die a good death than the poor . my amendment seek to address the fundamental question of whether free choice really be free by bring into daylight the financial motivation of those involve in individual ’ decision . my hon . friend make a strong argument for exclude private , for - profit provider . he may know that I table an amendment in Committee that would have limit the provision of assist die to charity ; unfortunately , it be reject . will he clarify where and how he think assisted dying should be provide , and his understanding of the Bill in that respect , give the lack of clarification we have have from my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) ? my hon . friend make an important point . amendment 15 seek to recognise that there be a difference in where private provider ' income stream come from and that that raise moral issue . will my hon . friend accept one more intervention ? I do not wish to exacerbate your bronchitis , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will continue . amendment 15 touch on a fundamental point at the heart of the debate . disabled people and the sick , in every aspect of their life , have to fight every day for resource from a state , a market and a society that view they as a drain on finance . do we honestly believe that at the moment when the most vulnerable be least able to argue for themselves , under the most intense societal and cultural pressure , and at their most expensive , those same public and private sector institution will succeed in make choice real for they when they have fail to do so throughout the rest of their life ? even if we stretch credulity and convince ourselves that that will be true in the state sector , can we say that it will be true in the market ? I do not believe that the Bill should be pass , but if it be , let we not make it bad by allow unscrutinised profit from the loss of human being . I rise to speak in support of amendment ( a ) and ( b ) to new clause 14 , new clause 1 , 2 and 16 , and amendment ( a ) to new clause 15 . I will make two observation at the outset . I do so as a Welshman represent an english constituency , as a former Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , and as the current Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . I remain to be convince , despite the confidence express by the Bill ' s promoter , that the Bill honour , in spirit and letter , the devolution settlement . base on the expression on the face of the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , I do not think she believe that it honour the devolution settlement as far as Scotland be concerned either . I also make the point that we be here to make law that have to stand the test of time . she be not the only one to do so , but the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) share a heartfelt anecdote about a conversation with her mother as a result of her mother ' s professional work . I know how easy it be to do , because it be a trap that I have fall into , but , particularly on an issue as emotive and literally life - change as this , we should not base our decision just on anecdote . we must base it on cold analysis of what be before we . it be almost six month to the day since the Bill be introduce and still I think it be well describe as skeletal . we have be tell time and again by the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) and the Minister how busy official have be look at the practicality of the Bill and how to operationalise it and make it workable . yet this House be keep in the dark on what Ministers intend . indeed , the hon . and learn Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) say in his early contribution that his understanding be that the hon . Lady be still prepared to work with colleague to perfect the Bill . but , Madam Deputy Speaker , we be on the second day of Report stage and we could easily fall to Third reading today . the time for that evolutionary conversation be long past . the time for detailed clarification be now . the Bill remain skeletal . the most common phrase in the Government ' s impact assessment be : " not know " 26 time ; and " unknown " eight time . it be leave to the Times to ferret out the information that minister be think of outsource end the life of the terminally ill to private contractor on a for - profit basis . the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) who speak before I reference Nye Bevan . I can hear Nye spinning in his grave at the thought of that . rather than fill in the blank and constrain the power to be give to Ministers , even more Henry VIII power have be add — Henry VIII power which be not in the original Bill . we be tell — I know full well that many right hon . and hon . member buy this — that the role of the Committee and the further stage of the Bill would provide all the answer , dot all the I ' s , cross all the t ' s and provide full clarification . that have not happen . this House rightly bridle when Ministers of the Crown bring forward legislation that have an unhealthy reliance on Henry VIII power . if we bridle at other such legislation , we certainly should bridle at this Bill . it be begin to feel as if this be a deliberate tactic . " keep thing vague , do not make anything too real or tangible , and do not confront what this will mean day - to - day . let ' s just keep it light . let ' s keep it airy - fairy . let ' s keep it in the cloud of principle and , somehow or another , through benign intervention , good will accrue . " this be too serious an issue in which to place that faith , because it could be misplace . that rely on we as member of Parliament not to care — to switch off when we hear the word " secondary legislation " , something that we know can often be deal with in five or 10 minute in a Committee room , with 14 or 20 people select by the Whips and no debate on the Floor of the House . this be not a niche issue for the Hansard Society or the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee , and it would be a shame and a stain on this House and this Parliament if we be to nod through a Bill that give we the idea that Henry VIII be the way to go . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not ; I be very conscious of time . Madam Deputy Speaker , give that so many right hon . and hon . member have be constrain in the length of their contribution because of your persistent cough — I say that not as a criticism — and that next week we have a lot of one - line whip and the follow week we have exactly the same , more time really should be give to the Bill . I do wish the Government have take it on , not as a Government Bill but by find Government time for report on the Floor of the House . this be too serious an issue to have as many gap and lacunae as this Bill have . the found father of the United States work on the basis that the vague generality of the constitution would always be adhere to , and that man and woman of goodwill would adhere to it . I be pretty certain that they be now begin posthumously , with the current incarnation , to wonder whether that be true . we should not be legislate to leave it up to Ministers to define regulation and decide how they come forward . we have Bills that have page after page after page which , when people ask themselves , " what be this all about ? " , actually amount to very little . the amendment that have be table , and which I support , have be table in good faith , but I be afraid to say that , in try to improve the Bill , they be try to make a silk purse out of a sow ' s ear . I rise to support new clause 20 and 21 , and amendment 70 , 71 and 92 to 95 . they be all about the right people have the right power at the right time , and they respect the devolution settlement for Wales . I be mindful of time , and therefore I be sorry but I will not take intervention . I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for engage so meaningfully and strongly with the Welsh Government , include go to Cardiff to speak with Welsh Health Ministers and official , to ensure that they be continually consult during this process . new clause 20 ensure that the Secretary of State , not the chief medical officer , be responsible for issue guidance on the operation of the Bill . it enhance oversight and accountability by place that responsibility with the Secretary of State , so that scrutiny and accountability regard how the Bill will be implement in practice be put in the right place . it be normal practice that official whose role and responsibility may alter over time be not name in primary legislation . it be , however , important to note that the chief medical officer be not be cut out of the process , because the chief medical officer for England and Wales must be consult . the new clause also allow person with learn disability and other protect characteristic , as well as provider of palliative care service , to contribute to the process of provision guidance . it be a simple but important measure that ensure the right level of ministerial oversight , and I urge colleague to support it . as my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) have explain , it be important to urge member to support new clause 21 , because it ensure that people in Wales be able to access the assist dying process in the Welsh language if that be their preference . almost 30 % of the population in Wales speak Welsh , and it be so important that they can access this service in their language should they wish to do so . it be a small change , but it will make a huge difference to patient , family and clinician in Wales . amendment 70 and 71 simply refine provision around the use of interpreter , require the Secretary of State to publish a code of practice on the matter . interpreter be essential to ensure fair and equal access to the assisted dying process for those whose first language be not English or Welsh . amendment 92 and 93 provide great detail on the Welsh Government ' s responsibility in deliver assist die service in Wales . some hon . member seem confused about what be and be not devolve , but as a Welsh MP , I wholeheartedly support the amendment , which 100 % respect devolution . they ensure that Welsh Ministers have all the power they need regard the devolved aspect of the Bill and the health provision , while retain the power of UK Ministers over those aspect that be not devolve , such as criminal justice provision and , crucially , change to the Suicide Act 1961 . amendment 94 and 95 clarify how and when provision relate to voluntary assist dying will come into force in Wales . they do not impinge on the devolution settlement , but simply provide clarity and legal certainty . all the amendment would help my constituent , Noah , a 19 - year - old with a terminal brain tumour who know what he want if his pain become unbearable . the Bill be about give people like Noah the choice , control and compassion that they deserve at the end of life . who be we to deny that choice ? I pay tribute once again to my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley for work closely with official in both Wales and this place to craft what could be the strong and most safeguard assist die legislation anywhere in the world . it be a Bill design to protect everyone , include my constituent in Monmouthshire and people across Wales . thank to the careful , consider amendment , include the one that I have speak about today , the Bill not only respect the devolution settlement but ensure that the right people hold the right power at the right time to deliver this law safely . I urge member to join I in the Aye Lobby to legislate to protect the right of the terminally ill in their final month — to legislate for compassion , for choice and for dignity . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Dirprwy Lefarydd . I rise to speak to amendment 39 to 41 , which stand in my name ; clause 47 , on the provision of information in Welsh and English ; and new clause 21 , which be table by the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . other have touch on the Welsh language , and I will touch on the settlement in Wales as well . in relation to the Welsh language , we be talk about something that be quite conventional : form and guidance should be available in write Welsh . however , of much more significance be the opportunity for people to use Welsh — it may well be their first language — in deal with the provision in this Bill . my amendment would ensure that " all reasonable step " be take to find a co - ordinating doctor and an independent doctor who can question people in Welsh where necessary . I would dearly like it to be more than " all reasonable step " , but the reality be that we have to deal with the staff who be available and the language skill that they have . I thank the hon . member for Spen Valley for table new clause 21 . it recognise that it be really important for a Welsh - speak individual to be able to communicate in the language in which they can well express themselves when it come to the assist die review panel , because that be the final stage at which we will recognise whether there be question of coercion and capacity . I welcome the fact that there be different clinical specialist on the panel ; I believe that have an expert psychiatrist and a social worker will help to identify potential question of coercion and capacity , because they will have different approach to those question . I must step back to the reality of how Welsh language speaker can use Welsh in the justice system , which be where the assist die review panel come in . in the justice system , an individual have the right to speak Welsh . if they use Welsh in a court , an interpreter will be use to interpret their word to the people to whom they be speak . that be not acceptable in this context . this be the most serious and most desperately difficult conversation that people will have , and they must be able not just to speak Welsh , but to be hear in their own language , if all the subtlety and what they really want to express be to be hear . I will not press my amendment 39 to 41 , and will support new clause 21 wholeheartedly . I turn to the Senedd power , particularly those in clause 54 . I welcome new clause 20 , which provide clarity on the responsibility of Ministers in the Welsh Government and the UK Government , but there be two issue here : the clarity of power , and respect across legislature . I have concern about amendment 94 and 95 , table by the hon . member for Spen Valley , which would amend the amendment move by the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) in Committee . what do those amendment do ? they ensure a vote in the Senedd to decide when the Bill will come into force in its entirety in Wales . the Scottish Parliament pass stage two of the Assisted Dying for Terminally Ill adult ( Scotland ) Bill on 13 May . such a Bill could not be bring forward in Wales , because Wales have no power over criminal law . the Bill that we be discuss today could not be bring forward in Wales . although I appreciate what the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) and for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) say about the devolution settlement , and I be glad that we have clarity , there be also a question of respect for decision already make in the Senedd . as thing stand , what do the Senedd have to do ? it will be require to pass a legislative consent motion , as require by the Sewel convention , but that can be ignore by the UK Parliament . this legislation effect action in Wales , but the Sewel convention can be overridden , as can an lcm . the second thing that can happen in the Senedd — and this will be expect — be in those area that be within the power of the Senedd . on commencement , a decision be require on the provision of the Bill that have devolve competency : specifically , the NHS in Wales . Bear in mind that if that consent be refuse in Wales , the Bill , if enact , can be bring in only in the private sector . that decision lie with the Senedd . critically , a number of we have raise the debate on 23 October last year when the Senedd debate in principle the question of assist dying , and the Senedd vote against it . Professor Emyr Lewis of Aberystwyth University believe that to be highly significant , and I agree . by the way , the First Minister and the Health Minister of Wales vote against the principle of what we be discuss here . to I , therefore , the amendment make in Committee that allow the Senedd to have a vote on the entirety of the Bill ' s commencement when enact be highly significant . although I support much of the Bill in principle and in broad detail , I can not support amendment 94 and 95 , because they would roll back on that . I rise to speak to amendment 12 , which stand in my name . I want to be clear that a decision on amendment 12 would not be a vote for or against assisted dying . the amendment be about prevent any Government of any political persuasion from rewrite the very purpose of the NHS , use a small group of mps in a Committee Room rather than debate on the Floor of the House . the amendment seek to protect the foundational document of our NHS and ensure that any change to it be properly debate in open Parliament , as the public should expect . let I explain why that matter . in Committee , clause 38 be add to the Bill . the clause give a future Secretary of State sweep power to amend exist health law through delegate legislation . subsection ( 4 ) allow a future Government to change the very purpose of the NHS by amend section 1 of the National Health Service Act 2006 . my hon . friend be set out her concern eloquently . what concern do she have that the Bill write a blank cheque for a future Health Secretary to change the nature of the NHS without parliamentary scrutiny ? that be the whole purpose of my amendment and my speech . section 1 of the 2006 Act be the legal foundation on which every NHS duty rest , guarantee that our NHS will serve everyone , always . the section , which express the promise of " a comprehensive health service design to secure improvement … in the physical and mental health of the people of England " , have remain virtually unchanged since 1946 . those word , speak by Nye Bevan and enshrine in law , set out the purpose of the NHS : a national health service free at the point of delivery . rise — Order . before an intervention be take , may I put it on the record that member should not be wander into the Chamber and then very quickly make an intervention ? lot of Members be wait to speak and to make intervention . be that the case ? have you be in the Chamber for a while ? indicate assent . okay , go on . I do use the facility , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I apologise for that . I be a gentleman of an age . [ laughter . ] I thank my hon . friend for take an intervention . we be about to reach the 80th anniversary of the landslide 1945 Labour Government , which set the NHS in train , and the 77th anniversary of the NHS . fundamental to that be her point about the NHS be free at the point of need and be about care , compassion and life . what assessment have she make of how the Bill , if it go through unamended , will fundamentally challenge that great victory and legacy that Labour Members cherish ? the power to alter the intention , as mention by my hon . friend , be not in the Bill we vote for in November . that be why I have table my amendment : to prevent anyone from tamper with the NHS as found by our forefather . let we be clear about what clause 38 would allow . it would allow a Minister , through delegate legislation , to rewrite the very purpose of our NHS ; it would let they do so without the full scrutiny that primary legislation demand ; and it would mean that Parliament could be deny any real chance to amend or reject that change . these be not abstract constitutional concern ; this be about whether the found promise of the NHS can be quietly rewrite — not through open debate or an Act of Parliament , but by a handful of mp behind close door in a Committee room . once that pass be sell , there be no tell what future government might do or undo . that be why this matter so deeply , because the NHS be not just a set of service , but a promise — a promise make right here in this House nearly 80 year ago , on Second Reading of the National Health Service Act 1946 . it be important for my hon . friend to be able to explain in detail what the philosophical and institutional implication be . but , fundamentally for ordinary patient , what do she think the Bill will do to change the relationship between the patient and the doctor ? its potential be to alter everything in a very undemocratic manner . in this very Chamber , Nye Bevan tell we that the NHS would " lift the shadow from million of home . . . keep very many people alive who might otherwise be dead . . . relieve suffering . . . produce high standard for the medical profession " and " be a great contribution towards the wellbeing of the common people " . — [ Official Report , 30 April 1946 ; Vol . 422 , c . 63 . ] we have a duty in this place to defend that promise . we can not allow the promise to be reword without the full voice of Parliament . we owe it to the public , to patient and to the NHS staff who dedicate their life to this service , to stand firm and protect what be sacred . the amendment be simple but its impact be profound . it would ensure that any future change to the core principle of the NHS must be debate openly , transparently and with the full consent of every member — no short cut , no sidestepping , no ministerial overreach . I urge colleague across the House to support amendment 12 , to stand with our NHS and with the people it serve . I urge my side — the labour side — not to allow the assist die Bill to be the trojan horse that break the NHS , the proud institution and the proud measure introduce by our party in 120 year . I rise to speak in support of amendment 21 , 103 , 104 and 42 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) and my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) . as other member have say , this be a deeply consequential Bill . I want to record my thank to the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , to all member of the Bill Committee , and to all those who have contribute to its careful scrutiny through the tabling of amendment and debate over they . the Bill be about the end of life . it be an emotive and sometimes painful topic , and I be grateful to the many constituent who have generously share with I their experience and opinion . I have also take some time to consult palliative care practitioner , include those provide hospice care in my constituency . those conversation reinforce the awe and admiration I hold for these caring professional . their expertise and deep commitment be always impressive . contrary to the point make by the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , they be adamant that they can provide sufficient pain relief to the vast majority of those receive end - of - life care . the issue be about not the efficacy of treatment , but access to it . in this , I echo the powerful point of the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) on the present inequality of access to palliative care . amendment 21 would ensure that the availability , quality and distribution of palliative and end - of - life care be publish within one year of the Act be pass . when assess the provision of end - of - life care , it be critical that this House and the public can see how palliative care be be deliver . for the measure in the Bill to provide a genuine choice to those at end of life , palliative care must be much more widely available . the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) argue that there should be no false choice between palliative care and assist dying , yet she and health minister know that there be a choice as resource be limited . when so many hospice have close bed due to funding shortage and receive more than 70 % of their funding from donation , I be concerned that we may see significant expenditure on a new regime for assist dying , fund by the state as a health treatment , while the palliative care sector and hospice in particular remain chronically underfunded . rise — I will not give way . only by have the assessment of the palliative care system that be propose in amendment 21 can we be confident of know whether access to palliative care be sufficient . if we be to provide a true choice at end of life , that be critical . I also stand in support of amendment 103 , 104 and 42 . amendment 103 and 104 would give this House a say over the key decision that still remain to be take on the implementation of the Bill . give the significance of the Bill and the importance of the many question still to be resolve , these amendment be critical . amendment 42 would ensure that we do not career towards the enactment of this Bill in four year whether or not the system be ready to operate safely and fairly . take together with amendment 21 , 103 and 104 , this would ensure that this House have the chance to consider whether those at end of life can access the full range of support , advice and protection intend by the Bill , and which they deserve from palliative care service across the country . like so many in this House , I have direct personal experience of the issue address by the Bill . my father be diagnose with stage 4 cancer in May 2002 . over seven week , he and my family benefit from the incredible care of our local hospice . share my dad ' s life , care and death have shape I , so I fully understand why so many of my constituent have ask I to vote on this legislation in the light of their and their loved one ' experience . yet our task be to legislate for a new system that will affect thousand of people and society as a whole . however this House vote on this Bill , our debate must result in a new focus on the provision of palliative care , so that all people at end of life truly have option in the management of their care and death . I rise to support amendment 34 to 36 and new clause 6 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall and Bloxwich ( Valerie Vaz ) , who sadly can not be here today . health inequality shape life expectancy and outcome — covid death illuminate that — but it be absent from the Bill . a young I would have be 100 % behind this Bill . I be very pro body autonomy when it come to abortion , but 10 year of be an MP have expose I to coercion , duress , the billionaire price of London property , and eld abuse . it be no coincidence that , like I , the majority of London MPs and of black and minority ethnic mp oppose the Bill . let we look at amendment 34 . the experience of my aged parent — now no long with we — open my eye to a world of pill , incontinence pad , hoist , power of attorney , key safe box and carer worry . I see how non - native English - speak pensioner — I be not talk about Welsh speaker — have their agency deny , perhaps unconsciously , by health professional in a stretch system . my mum ' s GP have a clear contempt for her accented word . at every appointment she would say to she , " one question only " . as my mum grow frailer and begin to lose the power of speech , she revert to her mother tongue and be see by hospital team as an annoyance , a time waster , and bed blocker . similarly , the disabled be often write off . People can not see beyond the wheelchair or the non - verbal . amendment 34 would place a duty on the chief medical officer to provide information at every step of the way on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? will I get more time ? [ laughter . ] indicate assent . I thank my hon . friend and I recognise the time constraint . on the issue of vulnerable group , she may know that a letter have be send about eat disorder but the spokesperson for the Bill ' s sponsor dismiss it , say that the concern raise be old news . do she agree that there be a problem with the way the Bill be be run , as so often the concern and evidence present by group have be dismiss out of hand ? I totally agree . we know that Esther Rantzen and Jonathan Dimbleby want the Bill to be implement , but our role be to be voice for the voiceless , so I totally agree with she . as oppose to the vague , ever - change qualifying criterion that be hold up as safeguard , at least these amendment would put ethnic minority people on the board : new clause 6 say that if they be on the ward , they should be on the board as well . the Bill seem to have neglect they altogether , so the new clause would provide real protection . we know that in a cost of living crisis , assisted dying could be quite attractive . bame community have low disposable household income than standard household , and during a cost of living and housing crisis , it be possible to imagine relative want to speed up granny or grandad ' s probate — or naani maa or dadima , even — to get a foot on the ladder . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? no , because I will not get any more time . give the cost of care , people could convince themselves that elderly relative would be well off out of the way , in order to get the young generation on the ladder . we know from the experience of other place that once assist dying be allow , the scope broaden — depressed 12 - year - old in Holland can get it — and the incentive to fix palliative care will lessen . why now , with the state of the NHS ? what of Suicide Prevention Week ? yes , we know that public opinion be in favour of assist dying , but public opinion also support bring back hanging . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? no , I be not give way . at my advice surgery , people have point out the unfairness of the £ 10 , 000 cost of dignita . we know that the status quo be imperfect , but let we not remedy it with something that will make thing bad . we need to get this 100 % right if we be go to do it all . although well intentione , the Bill have too much room for error , manipulation , misapplication and unintended consequence . six month to live be impossible to predict and , with life and death , it be too late to change your mind after the latter have happen , be it not ? this week , 1 , 000 doctor have argue that it will widen inequality and it be simply not safe . these amendment strengthen the Bill by take ethnic minority into account , when hitherto they have be completely unacknowledge by it . they must be incorporate into any assist dying legislation , but the good thing of all would be not to rush down this road with indecent haste in the first place , because it be so litter with obstacle . I rise to support new clause 13 to 15 , and to oppose amendment 42 . I commend the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) on the way that she have navigate this incredibly difficult and sensitive process . in consider these clause and the passage of the Bill , I have keep in mind the simple but difficult word " pain " , because the legislation be about those who face a certain death in unimaginable pain , and its relationship with palliative care and the word " choice " . on that point , will the hon . member give way ? I will not , because so many hon . member wish to speak . in this country we be lucky enough to have some of the fine palliative care in the world , and it be a noble aspiration to want to improve that — to be the good in the world . nevertheless , many of we will have see love one , family member and friend , suffer huge pain even give the fine palliative care . the trauma that that leave for those leave behind can be painful and enduring , which be why we be where we be . on that point , will the hon . member give way ? no , that would be unfair as so many wish to speak . in consider the Bill , I think , yes , let we improve palliative care , but let we remember that choice , when face with certain unimaginable pain , be the right thing to provide . that be why I will be support the Bill . I be almost in my 13th hour of try to speak on this topic , so I hope member will understand that I be not go to take any intervention . I rise to speak in support of new clause 4 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) ; amendment ( b ) to new clause 14 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) ; and amendment 13 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) . let I start by say that end suffering be a share goal of all member across this House . no one have a monopoly on want to end suffering ; the question be how good we do it . as a former aid worker and someone who have risk my own life in order to alleviate the suffering of total stranger in war zone , I promise the House that I be motivated to end suffering at least as much as the next Member . it be worth the House knowing , too , that my darling dad die of terminal cancer in a hospice that be run and fund by a charity , because the NHS do not have that provision . new clause 4 matter , because we do not live in an equal society , although many of we — particularly on the Labour Benches — seek to bring one about . this be a deeply flawed Bill , and the truth be that in seek to give choice to some , it risk cause new harm to a much large , vulnerable group of our citizen . the safeguard , which be water down in Committee , will not prevent this . indeed , this week , we have see a letter from over 1 , 000 doctor say that the Bill will " widen inequality " and that it be " simply not safe " . early , we hear a powerful speech from my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale about the impact of advertising on the most vulnerable . new clause 4 would increase the collection of datum about the impact on the most vulnerable and bring in proper oversight from the chief medical officer , include in relation to those with protect characteristic . last time we debate the Bill , we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) . we be in the shared situation of have close and dearly love family member who have complex disability . my hon . friend and our family know how it be to have to struggle — to fight every week for the access to basic state service that our love one be entitle to but can not access . those service and precious state resource would increase their equality and ability to live well , but be stretch beyond break point by successive Tory Governments . it be that experience that bring I into politic and into the Labour party , and to this day — away from my day job as a Member of this House — I still have to fight on behalf of my love one , who have significant physical impairment as well as learn difficulty , for they to access the healthcare and support that they desperately need . vulnerable people do not always make decision in their own good interest , and I also know from my family experience that they can be highly susceptible to pressure from other who do not have their good interest at heart . that be why the transparency create by new clause 4 matter . I remind the House , too , that the Royal College of Psychiatrists have describe the so - call safeguard in the Bill as " inadequate " , and that in Washington state , almost two third of those who have an assisted death in the last year for which data be available cite fear of be a burden on their family , friend or caregiver as a reason for do so . I do not want that to happen in our country . over 350 disability right organisation oppose the Bill as it stand , and one of my constituent have tell I that the Bill contribute to a sense among disabled people that " we be disposable . " amendment 13 and new clause 4 both make important change to the role of the voluntary assist die commissioner . I ask my hon . friend on the Labour Benches whether they have question the wisdom of the Prime Minister himself have to personally appoint the death tsar — as the medium have christen that role — shortly before the next general election . finally , early this week , I hear an hon . Member say that he believe the Bill be flawed , but plan to vote for it anyway so that it become law and we would have to sort out the problem later — we have hear more of that today . the hon . Member do not specify how he think this would happen , or when . he be right that the Bill be flawed , but he be wrong that we can ignore those problem . to do so would be to fail in our job as legislator . be in favour of these amendment and against the Bill do not mean accept the status quo , as some have try to suggest . it mean that we choose , instead , to protect the NHS and to work , to fight and to battle for a palliative care system that be worthy of those we represent , rather than divert time and energy into help people to kill themselves . even though I be not oppose to the principle of assist dying , I have a number of deep concern about the content of the Bill , the process by which we be legislate for such a monumental change and , importantly , the context in which it would be enact , give the numerous challenge face our health and care service . that be why I have table amendment 21 relate to palliative care and end - of - life need , which have attract cross - party support . I be grateful to the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for support the amendment . I want to pay tribute to she today for kick - start a debate about die well and , in particular , about palliative care — a topic that have be neglect by many of we , myself include , for far too long . amendment 21 would require the Secretary of State to lay a report before Parliament a year after the Act have pass detail the availability , quality and distribution of health service to those with palliative and end - of - life need . Marie Curie estimate that one in four people who could benefit from specialist palliative end - of - life care do not receive it . People who be poor , less educate and , yes , non - white be even less likely to receive it . I be horrified , if I be honest , by the early speech from the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) . all the datum show we that people from minority ethnic community be less likely to access the healthcare service they deserve , in particular palliative care . there be a deep distrust of health service , and those of we who be in this place during the covid pandemic saw that play out in real time in hospital and care setting up and down the country , with far more people from minority ethnic community lose their life and far more healthcare professional from ethnic minority not protect in the way that they should have be . if those people from minority ethnic and disadvantaged community be less likely to access palliative care as a result of the Bill be pass , contrary to what its supporter say , my fear be that more people — rather than few — will die a terrible , horrendous , traumatic and painful death and they will be disproportionately from those community . the hon . member raise a powerful and excellent point about the people from ethnic minority who die during covid and their access to healthcare . as she will understand , that be of deep importance to I too . she be right about the need for great palliative care and I be glad , as she say , that we be have that discussion . if we look at assist die around the world and concern around ethnic minority be more likely to access it , the stat show that it be the other way around and they be less likely to access it . however , that point be neither here nor there ; rather , give that the safeguard be in place , the question be : be the process work well ? those be where the stat be go forward . I believe that the hon . member raise the matter in good faith , and I thank she for do so . I actually think the stat the hon . member cite undermine his own argument , because all the datum show we that the member of the community I be talk about be less likely to access the healthcare service they need and therefore , less likely to end up access assist dying . the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) give the game away — he be acknowledge it — that wealthy people tend to access assist die more because they have the choice , as well as the service to have that meaningful choice . those inequality deeply concern I . my grave concern about the Bill become law be that the people I be talk about do not have the loud voice or well - fund campaign to support they . this whole debate about inequality in access to palliative care should be the topic of a debate on a separate day and I hope there be the chance to have that debate . Marie Curie also warn that there be " no realistic national or local plan to address the scale of this challenge " , and that the whole system be in " a perilous state " due to a " lack of sustainable funding … and limited prioritisation of … end of life care " . a 2023 survey of integrate care board find that half have no plan to invest capital in palliative care service and 40 % admit that their service be inadequate for the need of their population . although my amendment 21 would not place a duty on the Secretary of State to put forward a plan to address the variable provision of care , as that be outside the scope of the Bill , the propose report would at least shine a much - need spotlight and , I very much hope , provide a catalyst for change . if the Bill pass , assist death will be available universally on the NHS to those identify in the Bill , but good palliative care will not be , so people will not have a genuine choice at the end of their life . this amendment would not change that , but it be a bare minimum — a first step — to analyse and expose the gap . the amendment need to go hand in hand with urgent action , however , which be why I have be persuade today to support amendment 42 so that the parlous state of palliative care can start to be meaningfully address before the Bill come into force . if it be not in a well state , the Bill should not be enact . I hear the argument from hon . member on both side of the Chamber about palliative care in this country not be at the level that we would expect , and I accept that . what I do not hear from those who oppose the Bill be exactly what level we need so that assist dying can go hand in hand with it as a genuine option . I note that the Health and Social Care Committee and the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) have undertake a report , so they will advise we on that issue . [ interruption . ] I be aware that I need to finish , so I urge hon . member to support the amendment of my hon . friend the Members for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) and for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) to ensure that we do not allow the Bill to implement sweep Henry VIII power on such a sensitive and important issue , and to ensure that we collect , through new schedule 2 , important monitoring datum on how any assisted dying or death service will operate . we need transparency . I rise to speak in support of new clause 15 and amendment 54 , and against new clause 5 . as right hon . and hon . member will be aware , new clause 15 would not classify a death under the Bill as suspicious or unexpected , so a full coroner ' s inquest would not be need . if the Bill become law , assist dying would be a legal , strictly regulated and well monitor choice make freely by the individual concern . to be absolutely clear to hon . member , it be not assist suicide . the Bill concern people who want to live but who , face with an inevitable , irreversible and terminal diagnosis , want choice over the manner of their death . that be an important choice that remove some of the trauma and anxiety for not only the patient but their family and love one . new clause 15 and its consequential amendment 54 will ensure that family who be naturally grieve the loss of their love one be not needlessly subject to an invasive coroner ' s investigation . it be important to realise that if there be any suspicion around an assisted death , a coroner can still be involve . the new clause do not exclude that , but it stop the automatic referral to a coroner . I share my hon . friend ' s sentiment . I firmly believe that we should protect bereaved family against such a distressing ordeal happen automatically , particularly when the process , as set out in the Bill , will already be legal and transparent . with that in mind , it make practical sense to support new clause 15 . if we pass legislation to permit assist die with the full weight of the law behind it , we must also respect that choice in the way that we classify and record such death . those death would not be in any way unexpected or suspicious , so to classify they as such would simply be inaccurate . as have already be touch on in great detail today , if the Bill be pass , it would implement the most robust assist die framework anywhere in the world . it already include multiple layer of oversight . in my view , the process be cautious , thorough and robustly safeguard . a retrospective investigation would be to duplicate the process , and risk suggest wrongdoing when none have occur . I wonder what my hon . friend ' s view be of the opinion of the Royal College of Pathologists — the body responsible for medical examiner — which be that : " death follow assist dying should be notify to the coroner , just as other death follow the administration of drug , prescribe or not , must be . " I respectfully disagree with that position . I believe that there be already level of safeguarding in the legislation . new clause 15 be a compassionate and practical clause that would ensure the law work not only with the individual make the choice , but for the family they leave behind . I move now to speak briefly on new clause 5 , which I would strongly encourage member to vote against . table by my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall and Bloxwich ( Valerie Vaz ) , the new clause would require the Government to publish a report on any impact the Bill might have on civil procedure rule and probate proceeding . as have already be point out , the chief medical officer have warn that we be at serious risk of create a " bureaucratic thicket " with this legislation . in my view , new clause 5 would do just that : require the Government to publish such a report would create unnecessary bureaucracy and divert resource without add any material value . as member will be aware , the Government have already publish an impact assessment on the relevant impact that they deem the Bill could have . there be nothing in the Bill likely to result in any change to civil procedure rule , so there be no obvious justification for produce a formal report on that issue . it be important that we remain focused on practical and meaningful safeguard , rather than procedural requirement base on immaterial impact . introduce extra reporting requirement base on speculative impact risk create unnecessary red tape without deliver any practical benefit . I therefore urge member to reject new clause 5 and accept that no additional reporting in that area be need . as we rightly scrutinise the Bill today , on top of nearly 97 hour of scrutiny so far , which be more than many Government Bills receive , we must keep die people at the centre of the debate . I speak today in support of new clause 15 and its consequential amendment 54 and in opposition to new clause 5 for exactly that reason — to keep terminally ill people at the centre of this discussion , and at the centre of this piece of legislation . no matter where we stand on this press matter — whether member support it or have reservation — it be crucial that we collectively ensure that the Bill be workable , compassionate and truly centre on the die person . as legislator , that must always be our chief concern . I rise to support and speak briefly to amendment ( a ) to amendment 77 , table by the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) , and I will speak to new clause 13 , amendment 96 and other amendment if time permit . I be rather confused when I look at the amendment paper a few day ago and notice that amendment that would directly impact on Northern Ireland have be table . when last I check , the Bill as a whole extend only to England and Wales , so I find amendment 76 and 77 perplexing . to be clear , health and criminal justice be devolve matter . the people of Northern Ireland elect their own Assembly to make precisely these sensitive decision , include whether to legislate for assist suicide , which be an issue of profound moral weight and cultural consequence . my hon . friend be right to pursue this matter . the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) say it early on : the NHS be form by the Labour party and be of the Labour party . these amendment would ensure that the Secretary of State could overrule Assembly member . in other word , 90 member of the Assembly could make a decision , but the Secretary of State could overrule it — surely that be incredibly wrong . it fly in the face of the democratic process that we be here to uphold . my hon . friend be absolutely right . on a constitutional basis alone , amendment ( a ) to amendment 77 be necessary , and I hope that hon . member will feel they can support it . move on to factor beyond the constitution , I be concerned that there be a dangerous absence of an adequate regulatory framework for lethal drug under the Bill . at present , clause 25 give the Secretary of State power to approve lethal drug , while clause 34 mandate the Secretary of State to make provision for prescribing , dispensing , transportation , storage , handling , disposal and record keeping , as well as enforcement and civil penalty . however , the fundamental issue of how these approve substance be actually approve remain alarmingly weak . the Bill define " approve substance " simply as " a drug or other substance specify " by the Secretary of State in regulation . there be no explicit requirement for those substance to undergo specific , rigorous testing for their use in assisted dying . when this issue be debate in Committee , I be disappointed to see good - faith amendment to engage , such as amendment 443 , be dismiss . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I will not . amendment 443 seek to mandate that those substance be approve through the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency and either the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence or the All Wales Medicines Strategy Group process . I therefore strongly support amendment 96 , table by the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , which " ensure that drug can only be approve if the Secretary of State be reasonably of the opinion that there be a scientific consensus that the drug be effective at end someone ' s life without cause pain or other significant adverse side effect . " that be a common - sense approach that should attract support from across the House . this week , more than 1 , 000 doctor write a powerful letter to all mp to outline their deep concern about this Bill , call it a " real threat to both patient and the medical workforce " . I strongly urge this House and colleague to read that letter before Third Reading . the Government ' s own impact assessment do not provide any comfort with regard to the use of lethal drug under the term of the Bill , which the doctor ’ letter pick up on , say that " there be no requirement for … [ the drug ] … to undergo rigorous testing and approval that would be require of any other prescribed medication , nor indeed for they to be regulate by the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency " . they go on to say that that be " contrary to all good medical practice " . this matter not just for regulation , but with regard to patient safety and complication . there be no requirement in the Bill to inform patient about how risk — include a prolonged death , rather than the promise peaceful and dignified death — will be manage . complication do occur , and this be not scaremongere . in Oregon , when complication have be record , patient have experience difficulty swallow , drug regurgitation and seizure , and they have even regain consciousness . in Canada , a canadian association have note that patient have experience regurgitation , burn and vomiting . I draw member ' attention to the write evidence submit to the Bill Committee by a group of expert senior pharmacist and pharmacologist . in their submission , they warn that the approach of the Bill put the cart before the horse . specifically , they caution against proceed without " a comprehensive review of the evidence for efficacy and safety " , and note that that review " should be scrutinise by mp before … consideration of legalise assist suicide " . these be not small detail or incidental matter , yet , even at this late stage in the Bill ' s passage through the Commons , we be still be ask to pass legislation without satisfactory answer to basic question from expert in the field . that be simply not good enough . I be grateful to have have the opportunity to speak , and I will close by say simply that whatever mitigate amendment may be pass , this Bill remain morally and ethically wrong . it be flawed and should not be pass . I rise to speak to amendment 8 , 13 , 82 , 83 , 85 and 86 , but first I turn to amendment 77 , which would extend some of the provision of the Bill to Scotland . my review of the Bills in Scotland and England that be proceed at the minute suggest that if someone move permanently from Glasgow to Bradford or Newcastle , they would lose their right to an assisted death in Scotland and would have to wait a year to acquire their right to an assisted death in England . imagine the heartbreak if somebody be diagnose as terminally ill three or six month into their permanent move to Newcastle . that be a natural consequence of the law of habitual residence ; there be long - stand case law on that . one matter that have not be address satisfactorily be how the relationship between Scots and English law and the Scottish and English Bills will be work out . I suspect that that will require further primary legislation in this place and in Holyrood if both Bills pass . I turn to the remainder of the amendment . amendment 13 be very sensible and would introduce much - need scrutiny and oversight to the appointment of a commissioner . the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) have set out in detail the very sensible reason for the introduction of his suite of amendment . amendment 86 be particularly important , because the panel face real difficulty in compelling people to come before it if they have relevant evidence . it seem manifestly reasonable that the panel should hear from people who have relevant evidence . I be also concerned that the panel process do not provide a clear role for people who love and care for the person seek an assisted death . amendment 8 would require the panel actively to consider hear from such people , which address a serious gap in the Bill . it be important to place the panel process in its proper context . I recognise that there be an important cluster of intrinsic ethical value around the right to self - determination and autonomy , and the right to be treat with dignity . for many , the justification for assist dying be that people should be able to exercise that right . I have some sympathy with those argument , but there be a further very important question : will everyone who request an assisted death be do so on the basis of a true exercise of autonomy , and a true exercise of self - determination ? People across our family of nation can not access good help with their mental health , and good treatment can help people with mental health issue to have a fulfilling life , even at the end of that life . I speak from personal experience with various family member . we all agree that palliative and end - of - life care be not available to many people . Britain have entrench poverty , and people worry terribly about money at the end of their life . it be important to understand that the panel and commissioner would not ventilate or investigate those matter at all , because they would be look at pressure from other people and not at those terrible societal pressure . do my hon . friend agree that across all aspect of the Bill we can not legislate only for those with good mental health , or for those who be love , support and protect ? we must have at heart the good interest of the most vulnerable and those without a voice or without love one , to ensure that they be protect . I be oblige to my hon . friend — that be precisely why I join the Labour party as a 16 - year - old . face with terrible circumstance , some people will seek an assisted death . I find it hard to accept that those will be truly autonomous choice . we must be clear that the very same circumstance that have deny people dignity and rob they of autonomy throughout their life will drive they to an assisted death . I find that deeply troubling , and I worry that we be place too much confidence in concept of capacity , autonomy and self - determination . everyone accept that coercive control be common — indeed , it be incredibly common , as be domestic abuse and eld abuse . there be very clear risk of coercion . I recognise that the supporter of the Bill have seek to improve protection , and to protect people in those type of circumstance . I have anxiously scrutinise those protection , and I do not believe that they will achieve their aim . that be why the amendment be so important . last weekend my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) post on X a story of two old people who want to die together , and who have find doctor to sign off their assisted death . be my hon . friend concern that this debate might be romanticise suicide pact give that , as we know , there be mercy killing , which be , unfortunately , actual death ? do he share the fear of the Government ' s suicide adviser that the Bill will undermine suicide prevention effort ? I think everyone in the House debate this issue in good faith , and in the court there be a general view that one should be reluctant to attack otherwise . I be sure that question be mean on that basis . however , one must not lose sight of the fundamental point that the protection in the Bill will not address the profound societal pressure that people will face . one must not lose sight of the fact that , whatever protection be include in the Bill , it will not protect people against coercion . Edmund Burke say : " bad law be the bad sort of tyranny . " over time , I have see many imperfect measure put before the House — under government of all persuasion , by the way — and usually , through scrutiny , they be improve . that be because the parliamentary process work when there be time available , and in particular when there be pre - legislative scrutiny , independent analysis and thorough thinking about the consequence of what we debate here . that could have happen on this important matter , but it have not because it have be shoehorn into a process ill - fit for its purpose . the amendment we be debate be a late attempt to improve the Bill . I particularly recommend the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , who make an excellent contribution to our debate , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) and the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) . I support those amendment because it be critical that the safeguard in the Bill be not only maintain but improve and enhance , for all the reason advance by hon . member across the House about coercion and vulnerable people . the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) say she have never encounter coercion . North Herefordshire must be a wonderful place where people carry harp and drink ambrosia , but in the rest of the kingdom and , I assert , the rest of the world , there be many wicked people do many bad thing . we must never allow those wicked people to have reign and power over those who inevitably , because of their circumstance , will be at risk if the Bill be not improve . rise — I give way to the hon . member for North Herefordshire as I cite she . I be afraid that the right hon . Gentleman have misrepresent what I say . I be contribute an observation from somebody who have be deeply involve in palliative care practice , who report that it be far more frequent that the die person wish to die , while it be their family who be pressure they and encourage they to stay alive as long as possible . the fear about coercion appear to be worry about something that be not actually the case in these case of die people . I be afraid that I disagree . there be numerous case where people will be encourage , and perhaps even force , to take a decision , when they be cope with illness and at their most vulnerable — when they be frightened , doubtful and distressed , and may be unbalanced . of course we have to protect against that eventuality if the Bill be to be pass . on that point , evidence from exit interview show that 35 % of people choose an assisted death in Canada and 47 % in Oregon list as their reason for do so that they feel they be a burden to their family . the hon . Gentleman anticipate what I be about to say ; I have cite exactly that evidence many time during the debate . we need to look at the experience elsewhere to inform what we do here . we always do that when we pass the right law in this place . there be bad news than that , because rather than be improve during its passage , the Bill have in many way get bad , in particular by give additional power to Ministers — so - call Henry VIII power . when the two word " delegate legislation " be mention in this place , we should always be fearful ; when the word " ministerial discretion " be use , be doubly fearful . I say that look directly at Government Front - Bench Members , but I could have be look at the Conservative Front Bench . the Bill give permissive power to Government to make all kind of change . I want to take some of those to illustrate my point . the Bill empower Ministers to amend the Suicide Act , include the offence of encourage suicide . they can rewrite the principle of the NHS , in section 1 of the National Health Service Act , to read , " secure improvement in the mental health of the people of England and Wales and end the life of the terminally ill " . they can amend the NHS Act to specify that this service be not free of charge . the Bill point only to the section of the National Health Service Act that say , " service to be provide free of charge except where charge expressly provide for " . they can amend the definition of a register medical practitioner , so it be not a doctor carry out the assessment . and so on and so forth . that be why the amendment in the name of the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) be so vital . the speech she give be among the good speech I have hear in this House . the passion she feel for vulnerable people and the difference the NHS make to they be not only feel on the Labour Benches , as she well know , regardless of the theatre . we all come to this place to ensure that the least fortunate have a voice ; that those with less power be give a little more by our advocacy . in conclusion , I say to the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) that there have never be any doubt about the depth of her piety . let we now be sure about the breadth of her mind . if she really want the Bill to be pass in a way that be palatable , then she must surely accept the amendment I have support and highlight in this brief — all too brief — contribution . member need to be aware that I will start the Front - Bench speech at 1 . 30 pm . I call the final Back - Bench speaker , Rachael Maskell . I rise to speak to my amendment 27 . the insufficiency of clause 25 and new clause 13 , and the mechanism for substance approval , have attract much criticism as they defy safe process . I have therefore undertake extensive research with lead academic , toxicologist , anaesthetist , pharmacist and other to understand the safety concern over pharmacology , prescribing and dispensing . normally , the MHRA would undertake research and trial to secure safety , quality and licensing . the British National Formulary focus on dosage and side effect , and NICE or the All Wales Medicines Strategy Group focus on show that drug work and be cost - effective . that safety regime underpin the reputation of UK pharmacology . so can this House assure itself that without due process , someone will have a safe and peaceful death ? let we look at the evidence . first , the data be poor . the Health and Social Care Committee visit Oregon . we know there be vary time for how long it take for someone to die — up to 137 hour . the research cite nausea and vomit in 10 % of case , seizure , oral muscular burning , regurgitation and regain consciousness . will my hon . friend give way ? no time . there be a lack of consistency of approach and datum across jurisdiction on the substance use , how they be titrate and the dosage administer . while ingestion can be a factor , absorption vary accord to frailty , metabolism , diagnosis , body mass index and drug reaction . pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic be complex . however , it have be my discussion with toxicologist that have be most alarming . they highlight the high risk of acute pulmonary oedema . this be back by research show that 84 % of case use pentobarbital on death row have flash pulmonary oedema . the drug disintegrate the membrane in the lung tissue , fill they with fluid , cause shortness of breath and a sense of drowning . as a clinician , I have support many people on intensive therapy unit with such a diagnosis . high concentration of the drug cause an acute assault to the cardiopulmonary function . if paralysed and conscious , a patient may look peaceful but be anything but . such physiological distress need research . it be unclear how the Government will identify datum , process and safety . the risk to those handle toxic substance also need to be examine , and in the light of the Government identify that a pregnant woman could opt for an assist death , that clearly need examination . there be no formulation for safe titration or dosage . if pentobarbital be to be use , as it be in Australia , the Government ' s impact assessment do not examine it , so it need revision . also , the drug be not an approve substance for human in the UK , license or unlicensed . the MHRA and NICE have a role to play . we be increasingly hear that professional body be withdraw their support from the Bill , because they know that the regime that have be set out be just not safe , so it be our duty to examine the evidence . I call the shadow Minister . may I start by offer the condolence of his Majesty ' s opposition to all those affect by the Air India plane crash , include the family of the very many british citizen who , very sadly , lose their life . our thought be with all of they . as be well understand now , the opposition remain neutral on the principle of whether assist dying should be introduce . that will depend on the Bill ' s progress through its remain stage in this and the other place . however , I wish to raise two important matter . first , on the matter of time , all of we understand the considerable challenge that Mr Speaker face in have to balance the desire of colleague to speak on this matter with the limited time available for private member ' bill — I know that he be do his good to strike that balance . a number of member have point out that the time be give to this Bill be significant and more than that normally allocate to even quite substantial Government Bills . none the less , it be right to acknowledge that this be far from an ordinary Bill . it be hard to think of a more deeply consequential and highly contentious piece of legislation for our society . the reality be that , both today and in previous sitting , a number of member have be unable to speak . there have be an informal time limit on speech , and intervention have necessarily be limit as a result . debate in this House be important not just because it decide how we vote , but because it be use by the court to help interpret legislation . a more limited debate limit the scope for that . ordinarily , a Minister would have significant time at the end of Report to deal with amendment , provide clarification and explain intention , in a way that the promoter of the Bill will not . again , a majority of Members may be satisfied with that , but very many be not . although what we decide on the business of the House be ultimately determine by majority vote , how we reach a decision and how we allow alternative view to be explore matter . we should all consider whether we want a debate of such importance to be curtail in the manner that it have be . I ask the Government to consider assist Mr Speaker by make more time available for we to ensure that , on Third Reading , we have the full debate possible , with every member have a reasonable opportunity to speak and take intervention in the way that they would like . secondly , member will be aware that the Bill , although extensive , be not the full picture . as other have highlight , significant element of how assist dying will operate be due to be determine by future delegate legislation . the Government ' s delegate power memo note that the Bill contain 38 delegate power , include Henry VIII power , and more power be contain in the promoter ' s amendment that be schedule for decision today . they include matter such as the content , form and thoroughness of doctor ’ report , regulation for replace a co - ordinating doctor who be unable or unwilling to continue , and decision on who will be notify of the panel ' s decision , which have be raise as an important potential safeguard . those be not trivial matter . these piece of legislation can not be amend and mp can vote only yes or no . in some case , they be unlikely to be debate , and they almost certainly will not be on the Floor of the House . it be important for member to fully understand that . mp often have to weigh up the consequence of reject such legislation when they disagree with it , because it could leave a void . member be well within their right to be content to proceed regardless . certainly , a majority of the Committee have present a Bill to the House with the composition as describe . that is , of course , a legitimate choice for member to make . we have hear in the debate today about amendment to curtail these power , and member will need to decide their view on that . I urge the Government , in the interest of help member to have the clear possible idea of how a scheme they be be ask to vote on will operate , to provide as much detail as possible on what these future regulation might consist of . although we will not be able to have all the answer , I think most member would agree that it be well that we vote with more detail , rather than less , even if they be satisfied to support assist dying in principle . this be something that only the Government can do . I ask that the Minister reflect on that challenge in his closing remark , alongside give the Government ' s response to those ask for more Government time to allow wide debate with more member able to speak . I emphasise again that the opposition remain neutral on whether we should introduce assisted dying , but it be incumbent on we to at least draw attention to matter of procedure that can be address only by the Government . I look forward to the Minister address the concern of Members along the line reflect in my remark today . I associate the Government with the word of the Opposition spokesman regard the tragic incident in India . as member will know , the Government remain neutral on the passage of the Bill and on the principle of assist dying . we have always be clear that this be a decision for Parliament . however , the Government be responsible for ensure that the Bill , if pass , be effective , legally robust and workable . let I start with a brief observation about the process and , in particular , the time make available to Parliament to scrutinise the Bill . the Bill have receive over 90 hour of parliamentary time , which be more than most Bills receive . More than 500 amendment be table and consider in Committee . I thank member on all side of the debate for their contribution during the extensive consideration and scrutiny that the Bill have receive . give the time , I will confine my remark on the amendment to those about which the Government have significant legal or operational concern , and those table by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) to address significant workability concern . before I get into the detail , I remind the House that a full list of amendment table by my hon . friend that the Government deem essential or highly likely to contribute to the workability of the Bill can be find in the letter send to all member by I and the Minister of State at the Ministry of Justice , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , on 15 May . let I start with amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley . new clause 13 and amendment 69 , 53 and 72 would allow the Government to create or change legislation to set out the end - to - end process in relation to approve substance to be use for assist dying . they would allow for monitoring and for a regulatory regime to be design that will offer robust oversight of approve substance and the device use to administer they , specifically in the context of assist dying . amendment 54 and new clause 15 would replace clause 35 , which be currently unworkable in the wide legal context . they would align the scrutiny and certification of assist death with the exist process for death that be not deem unnatural . that mean that assist death would be scrutinise by a medical examiner rather by a coroner unless report to the coroner by anyone who have concern about the death . amendment 92 to 94 would ensure that the Secretary of State and Welsh Ministers have power to make necessary regulation to approve assist die service in Wales . amendment 95 would bring the Welsh commencement power in line with the devolution settlement and remove the requirement in clause 54 for Welsh Ministers to lay commencement regulation before the Senedd for approval , to align with usual procedure . I now turn to amendment table by other member that the Government assess as create potentially significant workability challenge . amendment 97 would require the MHRA to license the approve substance to be use in assist dying . that may present workability challenge , as licensing be not possible if the approve substance do not meet the definition of " medicinal product " under the current relevant legislation . furthermore , licensing be reliant on the manufacturer apply to the MHRA for a marketing authorisation for that indication and provide the necessary evidence of safety and efficacy in support . should the Bill pass , the Government would work to put in place an appropriate regulatory regime for the approval of substance . it may be helpful to note that my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley have table new clause 13 , which recognise the need for a robust regulatory framework and would provide the power need to introduce such a framework . amendment 105 to 107 , amendment ( a ) to new clause 13 and amendment ( a ) to new clause 14 would restrict the scope of Henry VIII power available to the UK and Welsh Governments to make provision about assist die service . they would far restrict the use of power in relation to the regulatory framework for approve substance and the device use to administer they , and to the prohibition on advertising . I point member towards the delegate power memorandum publish by the Government , which set out our consideration of the Henry VIII power in the Bill . as with legislation more broadly , the Government recognise the need , in appropriate case , for amendment by Henry VIII power . member will be aware that the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee will issue its own consideration of the Bill , which will of course be make available to all parliamentarian . amendment 3 seek to shorten the commencement period to three year . should the Bill pass , an entirely new service with robust safeguard and protection will need to be carefully develop and test , with input from a range of delivery partner . the Government ' s view be that the Bill , as amend in Committee , with a four - year backstop for commencement would be more likely to provide for safe and effective implementation . one of the key thing that the Bill ' s sponsor , the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , have say throughout be that four year , in the Bill as it currently be , would be a backstop . can that be the case if the Minister be talk about a requirement of four year and that it could not have be deliver soon ? I can confirm that it be absolutely the policy intent of the sponsor for that to be a backstop . the Government be work on that basis to ensure that it be a backstop and not a target . amendment 42 seek to remove the four - year backstop . although that be a matter for member to decide , we note that if both that amendment and amendment 94 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley , be accept , nobody would have the power to commence reserve provision in Wales . that would create major workability concern for the service in Wales . the advocate of the Bill talk about the point of choice and autonomy in the decision about when and where a person will die . can the Minister confirm whether we have enough doctor to provide a service for people to die at home at the time of their choosing ? I refer the hon . Lady to the impact assessment , which be of course not a forecast but a set of scenario . in it , detail be give on expect number and the capacity of the system to deal with the service . amendment 13 and 82 to 85 relate to the appointment of the voluntary assist die commissioner and panel member . the amendment would put the process for the appointment out of kilter with standard practice for public or non - judicial appointment and could significantly limit the pool of individual available . amendment 86 would give the panel the same power , privilege and authority as the High Court , which be significant in scope and be set out across different court rule and legislation . it be unclear how those would apply to panel in practice . they may be unworkable give that the panel be not design to be a court . new clause 4 and amendment 28 would put various responsibility on the chief medical officer for England and Wales . impose duty in primary legislation on an individual civil servant may cause difficulty in the future if the role do not exist or if the title change . it be usual practice for duty in primary legislation to be confer on the Secretary of State , who may decide to delegate to the chief medical officer . I would like to briefly respond to a number of question directly ask of the Government . the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) ask about medicine regulation in Northern Ireland . the amendment will not affect the application of EU law ; they will instead ensure coherence between the different legislative framework . the sponsor will lead engagement with the devolved government , support by official . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) ask about the equality impact assessment . the EQIA consider the nine protect characteristic alongside socioeconomic background , geography and mental health . the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) ask about the Suicide Act and advertising . I can confirm that encouraging or facilitate suicide will remain a crime under the Suicide Act . on advertising , new clause 14 , if pass , would oblige the Secretary of State to make regulation prohibit certain form of advertising that promote voluntary assisted die service . the exemption to that , which may be provide under subsection ( 2 ) , will not cut across the criminal offence elsewhere in the Bill or in the Suicide Act . I hope that those observation be helpful to member in their consideration of the technical workability of the amendment that we have debate today . claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . question put forthwith , that the question be now put . question put and agree to . new clause 13 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 14 - prohibition on advertising " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision prohibit — ( a ) the publication , printing , distribution or designing ( anywhere ) of advertisement whose purpose or effect be to promote a voluntary assist die service ; ( b ) cause the publication , printing , distribution or designing of such advertisement . ( 2 ) the regulation may contain exception ( for example , for the provision of certain information to user or provider of service ) . ( 3 ) regulation under this section may make any provision that could be make by an Act of Parliament . ( 4 ) but regulation under this section — ( a ) may not amend this Act , and ( b ) must provide that any offence create by the regulation be punishable with a fine . ( 5 ) in this section " voluntary assist die service " mean — ( a ) any service for or in connection with the provision of assistance to a person to end their own life in accordance with this Act , or ( b ) any other service provide for the purpose of any of section 5 to 27 . " — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) this clause impose a duty to make regulation prohibit advertisement to promote service relate to voluntary assist die under the Bill . bring up , and read the first and second time . Amendment propose to new clause 14 : ( b ) , in subsection ( 2 ) , leave out from " exception " to the end of subsection ( 3 ) and insert — " ( ) for the follow — communication make in reply to a particular request by an individual for information about a voluntary assisted die service ; ( b ) communication which be — ( i ) intend for health professional or provider of voluntary assist dying service , and ( ii ) make in a manner and form unlikely to be see by potential service user . ( 3 ) regulation under this section may make provision that could be make by an Act of Parliament , but may not amend this Act or the Suicide Act 1961 . " — ( Paul Waugh . ) this amendment would limit the exception that can be create to the advertising ban set out in NC14 and also provide that regulation can not amend the Suicide Act 1961 , which include the offence of assist and encourage suicide . question put , that the amendment be make . Diane Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Rushanara Ali Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Harriett Baldwin Antonia Bance Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Saqib Bhatti Polly Billington Bob Blackman Elsie Blundell Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Julia Buckley Alex Burghart Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Nesil Caliskan Gregory Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Tom Collins Liam Conlon John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Edward Davey Ann Davies Gareth Davies Jonathan davy Mims davy David Davis Marsha de Cordova Charlie Dewhirst Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Nigel Farage Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Emma Foody will Forster Peter Fortune Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Louie French Allison Gardner John Glen Mary Glindon John Grady Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Alison Griffiths Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Helen Hayes John Hayes Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Sally Jameson Robert Jenrick Adam Jogee Dr Caroline Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Uma Kumaran Ben Lake Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Edward Leigh Emma Lewell Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Blair McDougall Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon James McMurdock Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane David Mundell Katrina Murray Andrew Murrison Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Ben Obese - Jecty Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Yasmin Qureshi Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Mike Reader David Reed Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Naseem Shah Jim Shannon David Simmonds Lisa Smart David Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Andrew Snowden Alex Sobel Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Alison Taylor Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Dan Tomlinson Thomas Tugendhat Anna Turley Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Helen Whately Michael Wheeler Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Patricia Ferguson Ruth Jones Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Callum Anderson Steffan Aquarone Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Peter Bedford Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Maureen Burke Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair carn David Chadwick Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Lizzi Collinge Victoria Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Steve Darling Emily Darlington Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Luke Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Catherine Fookes Richard Foord Paul Foster Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Mark Garnier Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Claire Hazelgrove Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Warinder Juss Chris Kane Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Mike Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Kevin McKenna Kirsty McNeill Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband John Milne Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Perran Moon Layla Moran Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Susan Murray Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Chris Philp Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Ian Roome Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Adam Thompson Richard Tice Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Katie White Steve witherden Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Bambos Charalambous Sarah Owen the House divide : Ayes 233 , Noes 254 . question accordingly negative . new clause 14 add to the Bill . New Clause 15 - investigation of death etc " ( 1 ) in section 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 ( duty to investigate certain death ) , after subsection ( 7 ) insert — ' ( 7a ) in this chapter a reference to an " unnatural death " do not include a death cause by the self - administration by the deceased of an approve substance , within the meaning of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 , that be provide to the deceased in accordance with that Act . ' ( 2 ) in section 20 of that Act ( medical certificate of cause of death ) , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — ' ( 4A ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may make , in respect of case where assistance be provide or purportedly provide to the deceased under the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 — ( a ) such provision that be similar to , or that correspond to , provision mention in subsection ( 1 ) as the Secretary of State consider appropriate ; ( b ) such further provision as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4b ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide that in case where the cause of death appear , to the good of the knowledge and belief of the person issue a certificate under the regulation , to be the self - administration by the deceased of an approve substance ( within the meaning of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 ) that be provide to the deceased in accordance with that Act , the certificate must — ( a ) state the cause of death to be " assist death " , and ( b ) contain a record of the illness or disease which cause the person to be terminally ill within the meaning of that Act . ' ( 3 ) in Schedule 1 to that Act ( suspension of investigation etc ) , in the definition in paragraph 1 ( 6 ) of ' homicide offence ' , after paragraph ( d ) insert — ' ( e ) an offence under section 31 , 32 or 33 of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Act 2025 ; ' . " — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) this new clause provide that reference in chapter 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 ( investigation into death ) to unnatural death do not include death cause by self - administration of approve substance provide in accordance with the Bill . it make offence under clause 31 to 33 " homicide offence " for the purpose of that Act . it also amend the power in that Act in respect of medical certificate of cause of death . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 20 - Guidance about operation of Act " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance relate to the operation of this Act . ( 2 ) the guidance need not ( but may ) relate to matter about which the Welsh Ministers may issue guidance under subsection ( 4 ) ( ' Welsh devolve matter ' ) . ( 3 ) before issue guidance under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) the Chief Medical Officer for England , ( b ) the Chief Medical Officer for Wales , ( c ) such person with learn disability and other person who have protect characteristic as the Secretary of State consider appropriate , ( d ) such person appear to represent provider of health or care service , include provider of palliative or end of life care , as the Secretary of State consider appropriate , ( e ) if any part of the guidance relate to Welsh devolve matter , the Welsh Ministers , and ( f ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4 ) the Welsh Ministers may issue guidance relate to the operation of this Act in Wales , but the guidance must only be about matter within devolved competence . ( 5 ) for this purpose , a matter be ' within devolved competence ' if provision about it would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd . ( 6 ) before issue guidance under subsection ( 4 ) , the Welsh Ministers must consult — ( a ) the Chief Medical Officer for Wales , ( b ) the Secretary of State , ( c ) such person with learn disability and other person who have protect characteristic as the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate , ( d ) such person appear to represent provider of health or care service , include provider of palliative or end of life care , as the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate , and ( e ) such other person as the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate . ( 7 ) when prepare guidance under this section , an appropriate national authority must have regard to the need to provide practical and accessible information , advice and guidance to — ( a ) person ( include person with learn disability ) request or consider request assistance to end their own life ; ( b ) the next of kin and family of such person ; ( c ) the general public . ( 8 ) an appropriate national authority must publish any guidance issue under this section . ( 9 ) in this section — ' appropriate national authority ' mean the Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers ; ' protect characteristic ' have the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Equality Act 2010 ( see section 4 of that Act ) . " — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) this new clause ( which be intend to replace clause 37 ) make provision about guidance relate to the operation of the Bill . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 21 - provision about the Welsh language " ( 1 ) in this section ' relevant person ' mean a person in Wales who wish to be provide with assistance to end their own life in accordance with this Act . ( 2 ) subsection ( 3 ) apply where the Welsh Ministers make regulation under section 39 ( voluntary assist die service : Wales ) . ( 3 ) regulation under that section must make such provision as the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate for the purpose of ensure that , where a relevant person indicate that they wish to communicate in Welsh , all reasonable step be take to secure that — ( a ) communication make by a person provide a voluntary assisted die service to the relevant person be in Welsh , and ( b ) any report about the first or second assessment of the relevant person be in Welsh . ( 4 ) where a relevant person inform the Commissioner that they wish to communicate in Welsh , the Commissioner must take all reasonable step to secure that — ( a ) communication make by the Commissioner to the relevant person be in Welsh , ( b ) each member of the panel to which the relevant person ' s case be refer speak Welsh , and ( c ) communication make by that panel to the relevant person be in Welsh , and any certificate of eligibility issue by that panel must be in Welsh . ( 5 ) regulation under section 7 , 9 , 10 , 17 or 26 that specify the form of — ( a ) a first or second declaration , ( b ) a report about the first or second assessment of a person , or ( c ) a final statement , must make provision for the form to be in Welsh ( as well as in English ) . ( 6 ) before make regulation in pursuance of subsection ( 5 ) , the Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers . ( 7 ) in this section — ' panel ' and ' refer ' have the meaning give by paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 ; ' voluntary assisted die service ' have the meaning give by section 38 . " — ( Kim Leadbeater . ) this new clause ( which be intend to replace Clause 47 ) make provision about the use of the Welsh language . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 1 - no health professional shall raise assist die first " no register medical practitioner or other health professional shall raise the subject of the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act with a person unless that person have first raise it . " — ( Dame Meg Hillier . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Rushanara Ali Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Harriett Baldwin Antonia Bance Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Saqib Bhatti Polly Billington Bob Blackman Elsie Blundell Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Julia Buckley Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Nesil Caliskan Gregory Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Christopher Chope Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Edward Davey Ann Davies Gareth Davies Jonathan davy Mims davy David Davis Marsha de Cordova Charlie Dewhirst Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Maya Ellis Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Richard Foord Peter Fortune Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Mark Francois Louie French Allison Gardner John Glen Mary Glindon John Grady Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Alison Griffiths Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Helen Hayes John Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Sally Jameson Robert Jenrick Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Dr Caroline Johnson Lillian Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Uma Kumaran Ben Lake Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Edward Leigh Emma Lewell Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Blair McDougall Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon James McMurdock Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane David Mundell Katrina Murray Andrew Murrison Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Ben Obese - Jecty Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Yasmin Qureshi Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Jim Shannon David Simmonds Cat Smith David Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Andrew Snowden Alex Sobel Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Mike Tapp Alison Taylor Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Dan Tomlinson Thomas Tugendhat Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Helen Whately Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Patricia Ferguson Ruth Jones Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Peter Bedford Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair carn David Chadwick Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Lizzi Collinge Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Steve Darling Emily Darlington Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Luke Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Mark Garnier Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Warinder Juss Chris Kane Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Mike Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Kevin McKenna Kirsty McNeill Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband John Milne Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Perran Moon Layla Moran Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Susan Murray Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Chris Philp Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Ian Roome Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Euan Stainbank Elaine Stewart Alistair Strathern Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Adam Thompson Richard Tice Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Steve witherden Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Bambos Charalambous Sarah Owen the House divide : Ayes 230 , Noes 256 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 2 - no health professional shall raise assist die with a person under 18 " no register medical practitioner or other health professional shall raise the subject of the provision of assistance in accordance with this Act with a person under the age of 18 . " — ( Dame Meg Hillier . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . the House proceed to a Division . order . I ask the Serjeant at arm to investigate the delay in the Aye Lobby . Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Rushanara Ali Jim Allister Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Harriett Baldwin Antonia Bance Johanna Baxter Apsana Begum Saqib Bhatti Polly Billington Bob Blackman Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Alex Burghart Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Nesil Caliskan Gregory Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Luke Charters Christopher Chope Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Gareth Davies Jonathan davy Mims davy Shaun Davies David Davis Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Charlie Dewhirst Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Maya Ellis Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Allison Gardner Rachel Gilmour John Glen Mary Glindon John Grady Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Alison Griffiths Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Helen Hayes John Hayes Pippa Heylings Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Sally Jameson Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Dr Caroline Johnson Lillian Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Ben Lake Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Edward Leigh Emma Lewell Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Justin Madders Ben Maguire Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Blair McDougall Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon James McMurdock Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane David Mundell Katrina Murray Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Ben Obese - Jecty Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Toby Perkins Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Yasmin Qureshi Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Mike Reader David Reed Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Jim Shannon David Simmonds Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Andrew Snowden Alex Sobel Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Euan Stainbank Blake Stephenson will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Mike Tapp Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Thomas Tugendhat Anna Turley Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Helen Whately Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Yuan Yang Patricia Ferguson Ruth Jones Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Steffan Aquarone Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Peter Bedford Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Maureen Burke Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Sam Carling Alistair carn David Chadwick Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Lizzi Collinge Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Ashley Fox Mark Garnier Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Sarah Hall Lloyd Hatton Claire Hazelgrove Kevin Hollinrake Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Leigh Ingham Natasha iron Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Warinder Juss Chris Kane Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood James MacCleary Andy MacNae Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Kevin McKenna Kirsty McNeill Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband John Milne Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Perran Moon Layla Moran Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Ian Roome Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Elaine Stewart Alistair Strathern Mark Tami David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Adam Thompson Richard Tice Marie Tidball Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Steve witherden Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Bambos Charalambous Sarah Owen the House have divide : Ayes 259 , Noes 216 . question accordingly agree to . new clause 2 read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 16 - wish to end one ' s own life " ( 1 ) a person do not have a wish to seek assistance to end their own life in accordance with this Act under section 5 ( 5 ) if they be substantially motivate by — ( a ) not want to be a burden on other or on public service , ( b ) a mental disorder ( include depression ) , ( c ) a disability ( other than the terminal illness ) , ( d ) financial consideration , include lack of adequate housing , ( e ) lack of access , or delay access , to treatment or other service which a public authority be require ( or can reasonably be expect to ) provide , or ( f ) suicidal ideation . " — ( Rebecca Paul . ) this new clause ensure that a wish to end one ' s own life that be substantially motivate by the factor list in the amendment do not qualify for the provision of assistance under this Act . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . object . Bill to be far consider on Friday 20 June . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I do not think it matter how one be go to vote on this issue ; a lot of we be find it very frustrating that some member seem to be deliberately hang about in the Lobbies to delay the process . in order to get the Bill through and for the public to see that we be respect their wish , can something be do to appeal to the well nature of those member ? it really look petty and childish . could they please abstain from do it the next time ? I thank the hon . member for her point of order . she will have see that I send the Sergeant at arm to investigate the delay . business without Debate Access to Telecommunications Networks Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Objection take . no date name for Second Reading . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Public Electric Vehicle Charging Points ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . public Sector Exit Payments ( Limitation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . support for Infants and Parents etc ( information ) Bill [ Lords ] Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 4 July . Domestic Building Works ( Consumer Protection ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 4 July . meat ( information about Method of Killing ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . exemption from Value Added Tax ( list place of worship ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemptions of Motor Homes ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . arm ' s - length Bodies ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . BBC Licence Fee Non - payment ( decriminalisation for over - 75 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Anonymity of Suspects Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Mobile Homes Act 1983 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . arm ' s - length body ( accountability to Parliament ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . bailiff ( Warrants of Possession ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . National Health Service Co - funding and co - payment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Interpersonal Abuse and Violence against Men and Boys ( Strategy ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Terminal Illness ( Relief of Pain ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . Immigration and Visas Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . British Indian Ocean Territory ( Sovereignty and Constitutional Arrangements ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . Mr Speaker say early today that a Minister would come to the House on Monday to discuss the middle east . give the event overnight , which have continue to deteriorate during the course of the day , have you have any indication that a Minister will come to the House in the few minute leave before we rise to discuss the middle east , in particular Israel and Iran , give UK equity in the area and more generally ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of his point of order , but as Mr Speaker tell the House this morning , the Foreign Secretary have indicate that he will come to the House to make a statement on Monday . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you may be aware that the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) and I be call for interview by the Metropolitan police follow our participation in a demonstration in January call for peace and justice for the palestinian people and an end to the genocide in Gaza . it be allege that we fail to follow police restriction on the protest . that be untrue , and at all time we follow police instruction . we can now report that the police have drop the case against we and there will be no charge . the reason for this point of order be that in the correspondence to our solicitor Martin Howe , the Metropolitan police inform we that our case be refer to the Crown Prosecution Service because , as mp , we be to be hold to have " a great culpability " . this be an unacceptable practice that fly in the face of the principle that we be all equal before the law . I wish to place on record my concern about that behaviour by the Metropolitan police . I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of his point of order . it be not a matter for the Chair , but he have put his point on the record . may I suggest that he take the matter up with the Clerks , who will be able to advise he on how to pursue the matter far ? far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to place on record my thank to our solicitor Martin Howe and many other who work very hard on this case . the implication be obviously very serious . if there be element in the police and possibly in the Crown Prosecution Service who want Members of Parliament to be hold to a different standard of account than the general public , that remove we from the normality of law in this country . I think that would be a very bad step indeed . I will take your advice , of course , and take this up with the Clerks , because our be hold to a different standard would be a very bad thing . we all have to have the right to take part in public protest about human right abuse , about war , about peace and about anything else . that be what democracy be about . I see this whole effort as a means of try to silence the democratic right of everybody in our society by pick on we two as member of Parliament . I be grateful for the decision that have be make today , but like my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , I do not intend to let it rest there . I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of his point of order . as he know , it be not a matter for the Chair , but he have put his point on the record . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it might be useful if a Member of Parliament who have not often take part in demo in central London intervene at this point to show that opinion in this House of Commons be absolutely united . in various parliament — indeed , in most Parliaments in Europe — MPs have immunity from prosecution . we have never have that system here , and we have always proclaim what be very much the british way : that member of Parliament be no different from any other member of the public . if they do wrong , they will be hold to account , but they should not be subject to some great test of culpability just because they be member of Parliament . as somebody who be not in the same party as the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and often have rather different view from his , I want to rise to show that what he have just say have universal support in this House . I thank the right hon . member for his point of order . while it be not a matter for the Chair , he have put his point on the record and he have be hear by the House . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . would it be possible for you to explain why that be not a matter for the Chair ? surely if mps be go to be deem by the Metropolitan police to have great culpability than other citizen , that must be a matter for the Chair and for Mr Speaker . why should it be delegate to the Clerks ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . however , it be not a matter for the Chair . if it be a matter of privilege , he should raise the matter privately with Mr Speaker . Flood Prevention : Sleaford and North Hykeham Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) before I start my remark , I will make a declaration of interest : my husband be a farmer , and we have a small stipend to pay to the internal drainage board in relation to flood risk . my constituent in Sleaford and North Hykeham enjoy some of the most beautiful countryside that the United Kingdom have to offer . our hard - work farmer reap the benefit of some of the good agricultural land in the country for their crop . unfortunately , live in this area bring some environmental risk . many Lincolnshire mps century ago hold the office of commissioner of sewer in the county . the job sound unglamorous but be very important , bring with it responsibility for manage the county ' s waterway and drainage and for protect life and livelihood from the risk of flood damage . I be not suggest that I take on that role myself , but that historical flood risk have only become more acute in recent year . land usage have intensify , our climate have become more volatile and great pressure have start to affect our natural resource . our county have suffer from flooding cause by overwhelmed drainage system and excessive river level . the effect on people have magnify too . some people whose home be flood lose not just possession , but the ability to live in their home for a long period of time ; some do not return home for more than a year . last week , I have the pleasure of visit Heighington Millfield primary academy as it formally reopen follow significant flood damage last year . the closure have major effect on the child there , who have to be bus to different school around the county within the trust , and significant measure have to be take to restore the school . I put on record my thank to everybody involve in that work . the community really pull together for those child , and the Department for Education and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs work very hard together to ensure not just that the school be repair , but that flood measure be put in place to try to prevent those thing happen again . the school now have flood door in place so that it can prevent flooding come in through the door , and it be have work do over the summer in preparation for the autumn rain to protect the outside environment , which include bunde around the playing field and a special garden at the back of the school on high ground , which will absorb some of the water if the rain overtop the back again . unfortunately , at the same time that that great work have be go on , new councillor under the direction of Reform have choose to abolish the county council committee dedicate to manage flood risk . I will have more to say about that later . in open this debate , I want to make a simple point . my constituent deserve to live in safety and to go about their work and education without severe disruption from climate event . we need to ensure that we be do everything we can to protect their life and livelihood , and that recommendation be be follow up and maintenance work be be do on time . we also need to make the most of local expertise and experience , and not undo the good work start under the previous Government towards foster collaboration between agency and local people . many community across my constituency have be affect by flood in recent time , and they deserve to have their experience share . in North Scarle , for example , resident face huge disruption in 2024 when heavy rainfall on to already wet ground cause flooding at Mill Dam dyke . the local authority report on the event find that poor maintenance of the local watercourse have contribute to the flooding , as do problem with the surface drainage system . as I see when I visit North Scarle in December that year , co - operation among different agency be key in tackle these kind of event . Lincolnshire county council be responsible for clean gully and maintain drainage , while the Environment Agency have responsibility for ongoing maintenance at Mill Dam dyke . meanwhile , local group such as Flood Action North Scarle contribute valuable local knowledge and experience . the EA have uphold its end of the share responsibility set out in the flooding report , and have engage the local community by provide maintenance update . it spend around £ 71 , 000 on maintenance in 2023 - 24 . however , since the spending review publish this week reveal a 2 . 7 % cut in the DEFRA budget over the review period , can the Minister assure my constituent that the EA will still have the money to continue maintain these dyke go forward ? and what will the Minister do to ensure transparency from council ? update from the EA be relatively easy to access , but Lincolnshire county council ' s flooding project website simply list its own action follow each flood report as " ongoing " . my resident need more clarity than that . in Sleaford , resident face similar problem when Field beck be overtop in October 2023 and drainage system again become overwhelmed . I welcome the work that the EA have do here too , with the business case for a major capital scheme approve on 2 June . I be pleased about this investment , which be project to avoid £ 188 million in economic damage , deliver £ 74 million in people - relate benefit and protect 604 property from repeat flood damage . in Leasingham , more work need to be do . resident suffer flood twice in quick succession , include in the school , in October 2023 and January 2024 , when agricultural ditch overtop and Leasingham beck exceed its capacity . the council ' s flood report recommend that the EA and Lincolnshire county council work together to carry out channel condition assessment at Leasingham beck , with the result to be report back to the Lincolnshire flood risk and water management partnership . however , the inspection have not yet happen . worse still , even as report into historical flooding be call for close collaboration , the Reform council be undo the successful partnership already establish . the Lincolnshire flood and water management scrutiny committee do vital work in bring together key agency involve in flood management and prevention : the EA , internal drainage board , Anglian Water , district council and other key expert . three week ago , Reform abolish the committee , fold it into the generalist environment committee , which do not have the same specialist remit to cover the most important and complex environmental issue face the county . by reject the valuable contribution of idb , district council and local expert , reform councillor be say that they know well than local people who have tend the land for generation . all the main party have oppose the committee ' s abolition and have see it for what it be : politick with people ' s livelihood . if the Government see these reckless action be work on local community in Sleaford and North Hykeham and elsewhere in Lincolnshire , what can they do to ensure that council uphold their responsibility to resident ? instead of cancel initiative , we should be create new one . I be encourage by the excellent work do under the previous Government to advance the water maintenance pilot scheme , which be design to foster collaboration between farmer and the National Farmers Union , local drainage board and the EA . the scheme enable great co - ordination and common - sense flexibility in the management of waterway — for example , by train local landowner in how to manage watercourse , and then allow they to carry out their own minor channel clearance and maintenance work for themselves . the scheme help to avoid the ludicrous , heartbreaking situation in which local people can see a problem with a local watercourse , be aware it be go to flood their farm , land or their home , and have the equipment and the know - how to do something about it , but the law prevent they from do so . it be illogical . public sector co - operation agreement already exist to help streamline those scheme and place participant on a clear legal footing . one of the great local success under that framework be the 2018 silt dredging of the South Forty - Foot drain , a farmland drainage channel date from the 17th century , under a psca between the Black Sluice drainage board and the EA . why have the lesson of those scheme not be apply more widely ? since the last election , the scheme in my own constituency have grind to a halt , and with it have go the benefit that be already accrue . will the Minister commit to support those scheme and encourage their wide roll - out ? as she look to her budget , it be worth recognise that it be much cheap for the IDB to clear drain and ditch than for the EA to do so , since the EA ' s procurement process be so cumbersome that it become significantly more expensive . one of the thing that frustrate many local people in my constituency be that they could do the job and get it do much quick . they be wait , and place be flood while it be not get do . another thing that the Minister could discuss with the Treasury be that the IDB have be prevent from use red diesel in its pump . the IDB have tell I that the problem be that the pump be place in isolated place , and believe it or not , people be steal the diesel . it be white diesel — it be expensive , so it be worth something — and people be steal it from the pump , which be put everyone at risk . the IDB feel that if it be red diesel in those pump , theft would be much less likely . Brant Broughton be an area in which a number of house flood . we have have a less promising update from the Environment Agency in that respect ; it say that it be expect to receive a model of the river system around the summer of 2025 . indicate assent . the Minister be nod — I do not know whether she have an update on what the Environment Agency mean by " the summer " . we be expect the health plan in the spring , and that have be and go , so if she could help with that , that would be really great . there be some concern about the overall cost - benefit ratio , give the number of house . I encourage the Minister to remember that although the people who live in rural area may live in area that be less densely populated , they have as much right to a safe environment as anybody who live in a more densely populated part of the country . there be more example of community in my constituency that have suffer the impact of flooding and be cry out for a join - up and proactive approach that will protect they from repeat occurrence in the future . in Washingborough and Timberland , a familiar story happen in recent flood : heavy rain , overwhelmed drainage and excessive water runoff lead to community be leave to suffer . while the EA have carry out some channel clearance and vegetation management , flood report make clear that responsibility fall between central agency , the county council , landowner , and stakeholder such as Anglian Water . once again , it be vital that open communication be at the heart of the strategy , and that politically motivated meddling be not allow to get in the way . I take the chair of the Environment Agency and the former Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , to visit the Delph at Washingborough when it be full . it be very clear that the EA ' s priority have be to protect the small creature live in the dyke by not clear the vegetation out , but of course , once the flood come , those small creature be no more anyway . it would have be much well for the creature , the environment , and the wide countryside and the people who live there if those dyke have be clear properly in the first place . tree be literally grow in that dyke when we go to see it . there be two final community face specific future threat that I would like to highlight . in Ruskington , resident endure flooding in 2023 and 2024 cause by the overflow of Ruskington beck . I understand that the Environment Agency have be conduct bimonthly maintenance and debris removal , and be investigate a capital programme for defence in Ruskington as part of the next five - year funding period . any scheme will have to meet economic viability criterion and define cost - benefit metric , despite future house building plan that will see more land cover , more people in at - risk area , and more demand on drainage system . as of December 2024 , under the Government ' s new target , the central Lincolnshire partnership — of which North Kesteven form a part — face a house building target of 1 , 552 house per year over the course of this Parliament , an 47 % increase on the previous target . can the Minister assure I that the cost - benefit analysis decide the fate of future flood defence scheme will take account of the Government ' s rampant house building plan , and will account for all the way in which flooding impact a community such as Ruskington , from work hour lose to home damage , insurance claim , watercourse repair and drainage clearance ? finally , Anwick suffer in the flood of 2023 , when the River Slea and its tributary experience very high water level . the EA and Anglian Water have be engage in positive liaison to manage risk at the River Slea , Farroway drain and Anwick catchwater , but resident in Anwick contact I in September 2024 when a sewage processing plant flood , cause discharge and pollute smell across the area . I meet Anglian Water to discuss those constituent ' concern , but their big concern be now about a biogas digester that may be build immediately next door . in this case too , it be vital that lesson be learn and that we avoid repeat mistake that will lead to more disruption for local people in the future . address the risk require the careful allocation of money . a glance at the most recent funding allocation under the flood and coastal erosion risk management grant in aid scheme show that many dozen of project appear in the bidding process but receive no funding . the allocation datum for the Upper Witham internal drainage board in my constituency show 15 intend project list for completion between 2023 and 2040 , but none have any grant funding at all allocate this year . Lincolnshire county council , meanwhile , be due to receive £ 103 , 500 in grant funding over 2025 - 26 for year one of the property flood resilience project . two small project will receive a total of £ 52 , 500 from non - grant public contribution , but 19 other project will receive no funding at all . the Government have make much of the £ 2 . 65 billion in funding for flood defence that be announce in February , but as I have say before , govern effectively be about make choice . can the Government clarify for my constituent how the EA be expect to prioritise its funding among the many equally important project that need support , especially in light of cut to the DEFRA budget ? how much money be spend on develop scheme that subsequently do not come to fruition ? what be the estimate cost — in household damage , lose output and broad economic term — of decide not to act ? as I mention early , the hard - work farmer in my constituency do so much for our local and national economy and for this country ' s food security , and it be vital that we remember they . what will become of agricultural productivity in area leave with inadequate flood defence ? what will happen to food security when some of our good - quality agricultural land be lose to frequent inundation , and how be farmer mean to prepare for this uncertainty – — in economic and practical term — when they already face such a heady mix of threat to their livelihood ? just as farmer have be leave to face the family farm tax institute by the Labour party and have suffer the sudden loss of the sustainable farming incentive , they will also face the threat of flooding , without the help and support they need , if this Government fail to act in the long - term interest of rural community . we have reach the time for action on flood prevention and resilience . as I note early , the way to manage the risk be with local knowledge , collaborative and long - term management strategy , and proper funding — essentially , with basic common sense . first , we must keep the valuable expertise of local people within the decision - make system . idb , local farmer and expert local committee know their land good , and we must give they the tool and authority to manage their own environment . secondly , we must build on project such as the water maintenance pilot to foster long - term planning and inter - agency work . we can do more : the creation of a Lincolnshire river authority , for example , would provide a structured platform for long - term flood planning that could be tailor to the need of local people , rather than to the nationwide EA or defra framework . finally , we must ensure that vital project receive the necessary funding , without be hold up by central agency ' cost - benefit framework . local authority should hold budgetary power as well as decision - make power to make sure that intervention be make where they be need most , and in a timely and efficient way . with these measure , we can make sure that local people have control over their own local environment and give they the tool they need to prevent the devastating impact of flooding , which have blight some area of Lincolnshire for too long . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this debate and on raise these very important issue , which I will endeavour to address in the time remain . protect community , home , business and farmland from flooding be a priority for this Government , and I be delighted to hear that Heighington Millfield academy student be now safely back at school . I be sure that there have be a lot of disruption , particularly for those take public exam . I be grateful to the hon . member for her generous comment about the Department for Education , DEFRA and EA official who have be work at pace to minimise the impact , and I pay tribute to all the people involve in that — not least the parent and the student themselves . I be very pleased to hear that there be flood - resilient repair , and I be interested in way in which nature - base planting around the school can potentially help with flood mitigation in the future . may I say how incredibly disappointed I be to hear that the reform - lead county council in Lincolnshire have take the very short - sighted and unwelcome decision to abolish the flood risk and flood protection committee ? this show the danger of pander to reactionary rhetoric and then leave local home and local community unprotecte . I shall be watch the council very closely to ensure that it be fulfil its duty under the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 . I be aware that the hon . member ' s constituency have be badly affect by flood from Storms Babet and Henk during the winter of 2023 - 24 . sadly , more be flood this January after heavy rainfall , and my thought be with those affect . as the former MP for Wakefield , I have 1 , 000 property flood in 2007 , and I can tell she that the psychological impact on resident be very long lasting . I totally understand her desire to raise these matter on behalf of her constituent and the local community she serve . engagement and collaboration be a key component of manage and mitigate flood risk , and I be pleased to hear that the hon . member be in contact with the Environment Agency on these matter . I can confirm that her constituency be receive £ 9 . 3 million from the Government ' s flood investment programme this financial year , which be fund the repair and maintenance , as she say , of a number of crucial flood defence . as she mention Lincolnshire ' s section 19 report , I can say that official tell I that they have be complete and that any decision arise from they will take place in future funding year . work have start this month on phase 1 of the Lower Witham flood resilience project , which will support embankment asset . phase 2 of the project , which be plan , will bring further investment in sustain legacy asset while implement adaptation measure to improve the resilience of the area to flooding . the Environment Agency be work with partner to build an up - to - date model of the Lower Witham , to be complete this financial year , and it will be use to test future adaptive approach and accurately assess flood risk . I will ask the Minister for Water and Flooding , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , to write to the hon . member if there be any thing that we can not get through in the time available . the River Slea flood resilience project be explore a new , more sustainable solution to flood risk management in Sleaford . public engagement have be undertake with organisation and other stakeholder on this project . Ruskington be also be consider for a flood resilience project . as set out by the Chancellor this week , in order to support the Government ' s growth mission and plan for change , we be invest a record £ 4 . 2 billion over the next three year , from April 2026 , to build new flood defence and to maintain and repair exist one across the country . that be £ 1 . 4 billion each year . this be a 5 % increase in our annual average investment compare with our exist spend of £ 2 . 65 billion over the past two year — 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 . our current investment programme be support 1 , 000 project , which will help to protect 52 , 000 home and business by March 2026 . and through essential maintenance , a further 14 , 500 property will have their expect level of protection maintain or restore . that be a total of 66 , 500 property that will benefit , help to secure job , deliver growth and protect against economic damage . we have also unlock £ 140 million from this investment to get 29 stall project move . this be target at scheme that be ready to go , so that protection can be deliver fast for those who need it the most , and we have publish the full list of funded scheme for this financial year . the Government inherit flood asset in their poor condition on record follow year of under - investment , leave 3 , 000 of the Environment Agency ' s 38 , 000 key flood defence asset below the condition require . this government be take decisive action to fix the foundation , give community confidence that flood defence will protect they . we be prioritise , over the current two spending year from 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 , £ 108 million in repair and restore those critical asset . last year , £ 36 million focus on damage from recent storm and flooding , with a furth £ 72 million this year to ensure that defence be resilient , reliable and ready . in addition , environmental land management scheme present a valuable opportunity for support flooding and coastal erosion risk management , through direct funding of action and provide a revenue stream to support landowner work with EA capital scheme , and through indirect action that will lead to reduce watercourse maintenance requirement , increase the lifespan of our asset . the hon . Lady mention red diesel and I just want to make a quick point on that . the previous Government remove most red diesel entitlement from April 2022 , but there be some exception . risk management authority , which include internal drainage board , may use red diesel for drainage ditch clearance , include work relate to agriculture , horticulture and forestry . I hope that be a useful clarification . watercourse management responsibility fall to different body . riparian landowner whose land adjoin a watercourse , such as a drainage ditch , be require to keep those watercourse clear of anything that could be an obstruction . the EA have permissive power to work on the main river , and lead local flood authority or internal drainage board have permissive power for ordinary watercourse . the EA focus on those activity that will achieve the great benefit in term of protect people and property from flooding . that , of course , can include dredging and clearing channel . in Lincolnshire , that often involve use the local idb . the EA spend an average of £ 40 million a year on these activity to improve water flow in around 3 , 000 km of main river . the need for dredging be assess on a location - by - location basis . the EA will work with local community , idb and through public sector co - operation agreement to assess whether dredging be technically achievable and cost - effective , ensure that it do not significantly increase flood risk downstream and that it be environmentally acceptable . the hon . Lady ask about future funding reform . the current approach to flood funding , introduce by a previous Government in 2011 , neglect more innovative approach . to address that , we have review our approach and last week launch a consultation on proposal to reform the way we allocate funding to flood scheme . our proposal will make it simple for all risk management authority to calculate their funding , benefit all council , include those that have less resource to commit to the application process . this should speed up the delivery of vital scheme and ensure that money be distribute more effectively across the country , include for rural and coastal community , and poor community that have previously struggle to secure funding . we will make it easy to invest in natural flood management scheme that also give benefit for nature , water resource and the fight against climate change . we be consider how community can make well use of property flood resilience measure . change to the current approach to flood funding will be launch in time for the new flood investment programme , which will start in April 2026 . the consultation be open to all and we encourage everyone with an interest to respond and help shape our future approach to flood funding . this issue be at the very top of the Secretary of State ' s priority , which be why we set up a flood resilience taskforce to provide oversight of national and local flood resilience and preparedness . that taskforce represent a new approach that bring together representative from national , regional and local government , the devolve Administrations , the emergency service , charity and environmental interest group . we need to know what work and we be learn where we need to make change . we have establish action group lead by member to deliver progress on area , include flood warning , awareness of recovery and insurance scheme . the Government fully support the vital role that internal drainage board play in manage water and flood risk and in protect the environment . when I go around look at the different area of flooding in my constituency , I get a consistent message : that the EA have not perform as well as the idb and that it be cost more money per activity . in her final few minute , can the Minister touch on how the idb can do more of the work and engage more local people in do it for themselves ? the previous Government have allocate £ 75 million to the IDB fund ; I be happy to say that in March we announce an additional £ 16 million boost to the fund . that create a total of £ 91 million , which should enable idb to modernise and upgrade their asset and waterway so that they be fit for the future , improve water management for more than 400 , 000 hectare of agricultural land and about 91 , 000 home and business . that include three idb in the hon . Lady ' s constituency : Black Sluice , Upper Witham and Witham First , which have receive Government funding of about £ 10 . 4 million in grant from the IDB fund since 2024 - 25 , to help with pump station repair and watercourse embankment repair . I be in my final minute . I encourage the hon . Lady ' s constituent to sign up for flood warning on gov . uk . it be vital that community be in the communication chain so that they be aware of flood event , especially give that intense rainfall be expect this evening . I will endeavour to write to the hon . Lady about any other issue she may have . question put and agree to . House adjourn .