it give I enormous pride to be stand before you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to make my maiden speech as Hemel Hempstead ' s MP . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) and for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) . I know Stirling well through my involvement in the Make Poverty history campaign ; it be a very beautiful place . I be grateful to make my maiden speech in the presence of the Secretary of State , who be generous with his time in my constituency during the election . I be humble enough to accept , however , that the primary reason for his presence be usually the fact that his mother reside in Hemel Hempstead and be a member of the local party . in this debate about rural affair , I want to start by pay tribute to the beautiful countryside that surround our town , and to the village that be part of the constituency follow the change to the boundary at the last election . from St Lawrence ' s church in Bovingdon , where I be this morning to mark Armistice Day , to Chipperfield cricket club and the Green Dragon pub in Flaunden , we be bless with many picture postcard scene — and my dog , Albert , be particularly fond of chase squirrel on Chipperfield common . turn to Hemel itself , the old town be so picturesque that one local council official jokingly refer to it as Hemelwood , such be its popularity as a film location for local tv and movie . we be once home to the site of a major roman villa on the River Gade , which supposedly have the big roman bath outside Bath itself . when Hemel town council be amalgamate into a new district council , exactly 50 year ago this year , the then Labour leader of the council , Gordon Gaddes , who be still a stalwart in our community even though he be now in his 90 , choose an old latin name for the council — Dacorum , which mean " of the Dacians " , reference a period in Saxon time when danish law apply due to the presence of the Vikings . we also have a long - stand connection to Henry VIII , who in 1539 grant the town its market charter . because of he , the mighty Hemel Hempstead Town FC be nickname the Tudors . like many other , my family ' s connection to the area come from the creation of the new town after the second world war . this new town be one of Labour ' s fine achievement , provide family with decent housing , good - quality factory job , education and healthcare . from Chaulden where my dad grow up to Highfield where my mum do , and Adeyfield where my nan live now , council housing surround a square with amenity such as shop , a community centre , a place of worship , a gp surgery and school . I therefore welcome our new Government ' s commitment to build genuinely affordable housing and new council home , while also ensure that the right infrastructure accompany they . as we seek to build new town around the UK , I would be happy to show Ministers the virtue of our ingenious , and often misunderstood , magic roundabout . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Mike Penning . it be not just our community that he serve with loyalty , but this nation : Sir Mike be a distinguished Grenadier Guardsman in the British Army and subsequently serve as a firefighter in Essex . in his maiden speech he say that when he leave this House he want to be know as a good constituency MP . he certainly be , doggedly take up his constituent ' individual case when they need he . I also pay tribute to our two previous Labour mps : Tony McWalter , who be kind enough to take I under his wing when I be a member of the UK Youth Parliament , and Lord Corbett . sadly , I never have the opportunity to meet Robin , but I know from my friendship with his widow , Lady Val , that he be a wonderful , warm and kind man who serve his constituent with compassion . that lead I to the point that I will prioritise as I serve the people of Hemel Hempstead . first , I will strive to improve local healthcare , include by push for a new community hospital . in line with this Government ' s commitment to neighbourhood - base care , and enjoy the support of the local NHS trust , the local council and my predecessor Sir Mike , I will push hard for the project to advance in the most ambitious way possible , as well as ensure that access to GPs and dentist improve . I will make sure that child in Hemel Hempstead , particularly those with special educational need and disability , get the good possible education . the SEND situation , not only in Hertfordshire but in Dacorum itself , be particularly bad ; the issue come up repeatedly when I be talk to voter as a candidate , and it be at the top of my postbag now as an MP . at one of my most recent surgery one parent , Natasha , tell I that her son Alfie have be diagnose with autism age five , yet he have be repeatedly refuse an education , health and care plan and have be wait for a specialist appointment for almost two year . sadly , her story be one that member of this House will know all too well . I be glad the issue be an area of priority for our new Government , and I will continue to work on it on a cross - party basis as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on SEND . I will also prioritise combat crime . recent stat show that Hemel be the one of the bad town in Hertfordshire for antisocial behaviour — indeed , it be the bad major town — while vehicle crime be at 105 % of the national crime rate . I have see that at first hand when I have have the opportunity to go out with local bobby on the beat . I will work hard to make our community safe , whether by get more police officer in our town or by work to reopen the front desk at Hemel police station . I know that the cost of living crisis be hurt people locally . food bank use have go up 1 , 000 % in the past 10 year in my constituency . I applaud the work that local charity such as dens , Community Action Dacorum and Hemel Hempstead Community Fridge be do to help . I be do everything I can to stand alongside they , but I also pledge to push for well decision to be make here in Westminster to ensure that food bank do not need to exist at all . in conclude his maiden speech , Sir Mike pay tribute to the person who bring he into politic , the late Sir Teddy Taylor — no relation ; it be a common name — and it be only fitting that I do the same . after take part in the UK Youth Parliament , I think long and hard about which great cause I want to focus my time and energy on . I get involve with the Make Poverty history campaign ; I still have the wristband around my wrist . I attend a rally exactly 20 year ago outside the Labour conference , where I hear the then Chancellor Gordon Brown speak in thunderous term of our duty to help those less fortunate than ourselves . a few year later , I have the enormous privilege of work for he , with my newly elect hon . friend the Member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) . many within these wall and beyond will recognise his — and her — unrelenting dedication and drive to improve the life of other , which inspire I to this day . finally , I add my name to those who have pay tribute to Jo Cox in their maiden speech . with the Labour Campaign for International Development , and now as a member of the International Development Committee , I remain committed to take forward her legacy , particularly on the responsibility to protect civilian , which be so urgent everywhere from Ukraine to Syria to Sudan . as Gordon say on the eve of the poll back in July , we have a choice in the UK and around the world : to succumb to pessimism or to embrace hopefulness and remember that , in Jo ' s word , " we be far more united and have far more in common than that which divide we . " — [ Official Report , 3 June 2015 ; Vol . 596 , c . 675 . ] I will do my utmost , as long as I have the honour of represent the people of Hemel Hempstead , to push for a more hopeful future in our community , our country and our world .