as a boy , I remember walk to the shop with my mum and pass our near pub . its name , the Lord Protector , confuse I at the time , and I later learn that I share a home town with one Oliver Cromwell , so perhaps I should feel at home in this place . have say that , I confess that the near pub to my first family home be the Cavalier . that be because I represent , and be proud to call my home , the faithful city of Worcester . famous among historian as the site of both the first and final armed conflict of the english civil war , Worcester be see by many as the birthplace of modern parliamentary democracy , and that be fitting for our city . nestle on the great River Severn and in the shelter of the ancient malvern hill , Worcester be one of England ' s good keep secret . rooted in the beauty of nature , and richly decorate by a long and varied history , Worcester be a city deeply inform by the past , and with a record of deeply inform the future . throughout its history , it have continuously express creativity , enterprise and innovation , and through the stir music of Elgar , the creation of the world ' s first combine hydroelectric power station , and even the establishment of the British Medical Association , the people of Worcester have be shape the future of the world for millennia . we be home to Berrow ' s Worcester Journal , the old newspaper still in print , and of course we manufacture Lea & Perrins ' s famous Worcestershire sauce . have give a flavour of our city , I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor in this place , Robin Walker . wherever I go , be it in this place or in my constituency , people consistently speak well of Robin , who win the affection of many with whom he work . he work with passion and dedication to improve education , and for that I offer my sincere thank , and that of many other . Worcester be home to many small and independent business that contribute hugely to our distinctive culture . during the election , I visit Spin the Black Circle and Script Haven , to give just two example , as well as large company that be also express our nation ' s creativity and shape its future . I have be privileged to work with team of talented people at Worcester Bosch , invent the technology of the future to grow and decarbonise our economy . if any Member would appreciate an in - depth discussion on heat pump or hydrogen , I be always happy to indulge , be an enthusiastic engineer by background . it be my belief that release innovation by invest in the talent , passion and skill of our emerge leader , creator and problem solver be key — key to our mission for growth , which be the guide light of this Budget , and key to decarbonise our economy through industrial renewal , rebuild our NHS , and put people at the heart of all we do . today , we be do the vital work of fix the foundation , because this kind of history - write ambition be exactly what this place be for . Worcester , and its incredible community of dedicated and talented people , be ready to deliver an exciting vision for the future , with our school , college , and the Hive — one of the large child ' s library in the UK — ready to grow the next generation . the Budget ' s commitment to take the first step towards the renewal of our school , and especially its provision for child with special educational need and disability , will be very welcome in Worcestershire . with the University of Worcester continue our heritage through teacher training , Worcester Business School and Three Counties Medical School , where prospective Prime Ministers can reliably capture a good selfie , as well as a wealth of innovative business and creative in the digital space , include the Kiln , now host BetaDen , our community have the vision for people and nature to flourish . it be lead by local people such as Worcester Environmental Group , our cathedral ' s eco - group , and project such as Bramblewood . it be a hub of culture , with art at the Swan theatre , the Scala project and the Arches , and have a grow track record in disability sport , historic world - class cricket at New Road , our fantastic city football club , and hopefully soon the return of professional rugby with the Warriors . we be also very good in a tug of war ! inform by the past and inform the future , Worcester have teach I that the key be to put people first , dream big , and unleash the creativity of diverse team to shape the future . I come to politic with a passion to tackle climate change , see an end to modern slavery , and put leadership and vision back at the heart of politic . let we remember that throughout the long history of this place , we , like Worcester , have never linger on the past . as the Budget empower we to do , let we continue always to fix our gaze with ambition , clarity , and focus on the creation of a bright and prosperous future . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to contribute to this debate with my maiden speech . it be the honour of my life to be stand here , in this historic place , at the heart of democracy , represent the community of Dagenham and Rainham , the place where I be bear and raise . I be well and truly make in Dagenham , and I be also the first woman to represent the seat since the boundary be redrawn in 2010 , when the old seat of Dagenham inherit the community of Rainham , South Hornchurch , Elm Park and now Beam Park . I be proud to join the long list of political woman from Dagenham , such as the Ford machinist whose battle pave the way for the Equal Pay Act in the ' 70 , and now our very own Holly Ridley , Labour ' s new general secretary . I must take this opportunity to pay tribute to the inexhaustible work of my predecessor , Jon Cruddas , who always put the need of local people first and be , I know , a very well - respect Member of this House for his very thoughtful contribution . his presence will be miss by honourable colleague in Westminster and by the people of Dagenham and Rainham , not least for his community - lead approach to parliamentary politic . he always bring people with he , display integrity and compassion , and I have commit to continue in that vein . when people think of Dagenham and Rainham , they think of industry and the era of great british manufacturing — the Ford factory , Sanofi - Aventis and May & Baker , which create one of the first antibiotic , save many thousand of life during world war two , include that of Sir Winston Churchill when he suffer with pneumonia . People also think of council housing . the Becontree estate , one of the most ambitious social housing project in the world , build during the interwar period , mark its 100th anniversary in 2021 and be still a source of great pride . People also think of working - class solidarity : the community that be forge on the factory floor , in the club and at the dock ; and the indomitable spirit of the woman machinist whose famous fight pave the way for the Equal Pay Act 1970 and for a strong trade union voice in our area . Dagenham and Rainham have a rich past , and it be now my job to ensure that it have a bright future , full of opportunity and promise , build on the back of a new deal for work people . it have not always be politic for I ; I have work in insurance and in a call centre , and be a barmaid at the Dagenham Trades Hall . I know how precarious work can be in area such as Dagenham and Rainham , and it be the miner ' strike that draw I into politic . see secure job steal away , the injustice of Orgreave and the heart be rip out of working - class community by decision make in Westminster , I know then that I want to be a voice for working - class people . that be why I welcome the Government ' s commitment to make the Hillsborough law a reality , create a level playing field for people in place such as Dagenham and Rainham when tragedy sadly happen — like in 2015 , when four young man be murder by a serial killer . the Independent Office for Police Conduct find that mistake be make during the investigation , and nearly a decade later I continue to work with the family of Jack Taylor , seek the justice they deserve . it be not only justice that working - class community such as Dagenham and Rainham seek ; they want more police on our street to tackle the scourge of knife crime , particularly around transport hub such as Dagenham Heathway , Elm Park and Rainham . we want thrive town centre , an NHS fit for the future — one where you can get a GP appointment — job you can raise a family on , council housing , infrastructure , good public service we can all rely on and representative who serve with integrity . the devastating fire at the Spectrum building in my constituency in the early hour of Monday 26 August will not have escape the attention of the House . that have yet again bring to the fore the safety of resident in high - rise block across the country . thankfully , a combination of brave resident and the rapid response from the London Fire Brigade mean that there be no loss of life on this occasion . I want to take a moment to thank our emergency service for their amazing work and our community in Dagenham for their overwhelming response to this tragedy . local business and resident rally around to help family who have lose literally everything . that be who we be in Dagenham and Rainham , and I could not be prouder as their representative in this House . there be a long way to go before we have a level playing field , but in the meantime I will dedicate every moment I spend in this House to raise living standard and attract opportunity for my constituent . the work have already begin . in a matter of month London ' s big film studio will be complete , bring skilled work in the creative industry to a new generation of young people , make hope possible . that have only be make possible under the local stewardship of Labour , guide by Jon Cruddas , who broker the agreement when Sanofi - Aventis vacate the site , and Barking and Dagenham council , which secure the deal with Hackman Capital Partners to develop it . as with all thing , there be good news and bad news , and there be still a lot of battle that need to be fight . there be a patch of empty land at Marsh Way where c2c train should be take customer from their new neighbourhood on the Beam Park estate to Fenchurch Street in 20 minute , as promise by developer . I be determined to make sure that promise be make good . since discover that this crucial infrastructure have be derail , it be Labour representative who have be fight for a green light to get it deliver . I have always be a champion of council housing at traditional social rent , and I will continue to do that in Parliament . that be why I welcome the Government ' s commitment to build a new generation of social and affordable home . I also welcome the commitment to put in the essential service that community desperately need . I will always beat the drum of infrastructure . as we build — there be a lot of development plan for Dagenham and Rainham — we must ensure not only that the home be affordable , but that there be school , GPs and dentist , transport option , leisure facility , green space and the amenity need to thrive . there be many new challenge in Dagenham and Rainham , but there be also historical challenge that need resolution . the ongoing fire at the illegal landfill on Launders Lane in Rainham be not only a scandal but a public health risk , and I will be fight tooth and nail to extinguish they once and for all . the health of my constituent be paramount . that be why I be in regular contact with the chief executive of the Barking , Havering and Redbridge university hospital NHS trust , offer my support to get our local NHS back on its foot . our local NHS have ambitious plan to expand the emergency department at Queen ' s hospital , and I will be do everything in my power to make that a reality . at the election , I promise that I would help local community to shape the future of Dagenham and Rainham . from the Daggers box club to local faith group , business , work man ' s club , and amazing local charity such as Dagenham United and the Ship in Rainham , everyone play a part in build a future for Dagenham and Rainham . that include Barking and Dagenham and Havering council , which be why I will be a constant voice ask for a revise funding formula for local authority , so that they have the resource they need to transform life . I will finish as I start . it be the honour of my life to stand here represent my community and to be give the opportunity to serve . I be fiercely proud of Dagenham and Rainham and , build on the legacy of those who stand here before I , I will always be on hand to fight for the community who call my constituency home . thank you . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to speak in today ' s debate . first , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) , and for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) , who have proudly show the good of their constituency in their maiden speech today . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Hannah Bardell . Hannah have diligently support our constituent over the past nine year , whether by address the broxburn flood , assist homeowner affect by RAAC , advocate for those affect by the infected blood scandal , and championing LGBTQ + right . on election night , she be incredibly gracious — a spirit that have continue , as Hannah and her team have go above and beyond in pass on case and help my team to get settle . she say to I on the night , " it ' s all about the constituent , " and she have be true to her word . Hannah say in her speech on polling night that she intend to be back in some form . of that I have no doubt . I just hope it be not too soon . my constituency be call Livingston , which be understandable , as that be the big town in the constituency and the county , but the constituency be so much more than that ; it include town and village such as Breich , Dechmont , Ecclesmachan , Uphall , Longridge , broxburn , Bents , Stoneyburn , Addiewell , Kirknewton , Wilkieston , East Calder , Mid Calder , West Calder and Fauldhouse , each rich with history and a distinct community spirit . the area ' s economy and population be initially boost by mining , of coal in the west , and oil shale in the east . the landscape still bear witness to this history , with the bing that remain . that be why it be important to I that the Chancellor announce in yesterday ' s Budget that we be deliver on our manifesto commitment to return the investment reserve to miner . we be hand back £ 1 . 2 billion to former miner and their family . in fact , 144 former miner in the Livingston constituency will receive an average increase of £ 29 per week in their pension . for those who would like a further insight into scottish oil and the shale oil industry , there be the Almond Valley visitor centre , which bring to life the first truly commercial oil work in the world , and celebrate the west lothian chemist James " Paraffin " Young ' s work and discovery . however , the big growth in the area be in the 1960 , with the creation of the new town of Livingston . many from Glasgow and the west of Scotland venture east because of the promise of improved housing and job opportunity . that entrepreneurial spirit be still alive in Livingston , which be the home of high - end manufacturer like Wyman - Gordon , biotech company like Valneva , Glenmorangie ' s bottle plant , Paterson ' s shortbread factory , Mitsubishi Electric , a designer outlet village , Sky , and numerous small and medium - sized enterprise , which be the lifeblood of our local economy . now that I have highlight Pateron ' s shortbread and Glenmorangie , I be expect a visit from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Scotland — all in the name of promote Brand Scotland , of course . as I prepare to give this speech , I seek inspiration from the maiden speech of two previous mps for Livingston : Robin Cook and Tam Dalyell , who know a thing or two about speak in this place . even in their maiden speech , they set themselves apart with their wit , intellect and fire for social justice . Tam Dalyell use his experience as a school teacher to outline practical reform that could be make to the education system , and Robin Cook , a former chair of housing on Edinburgh City council , make a plea for more and well housing . I take from they that you should talk about what you know , and if I can maintain that for my whole parliamentary career , I think I will be do rather well . Tam Dalyell and Robin Cook be two giant of Scottish Labour politic , who , in their different way , make a mark in this place . we new Scottish Labour mps must now make ours . there be a scottish Labour thread of history in this place , from Hardie , Maxton , Lee and Dewar to Cook , Brown and Darling . live up to that be an impossible task , but try we must , because in that trying and effort be the opportunity to make a change . the idea of be a Scottish MP in the Parliament of the United Kingdom be important to I . I be scottish , and I be british . I do not see these identity as contradictory , but they be different . give that all four nation be part of the United Kingdom , and have be , in some case , for hundred of year , it would seem logical that the UK identity would subsume all , but that be not so . the idea of Scotland be powerful . it have stand the test of time , and it mean different thing to different people in the Borders , the highland , the island community , the east , the west , the central belt , urban area and rural area , but there be a common fabric of what it mean to be scottish , and it bind we together , whether we be bear into be scottish or choose to make our home in Scotland . this be part of who we be , and have Scotland as one of the four nation make our country great than the sum of its part . the theme of today ' s debate be " fix the foundation " , because over the last 14 year our country have not be on secure foundation . the chaos of the last 14 year across the UK — and particularly the last 10 year in Scotland , where there have be a focus on the constitution , not the day job — have make our country feel less secure and life feel too precarious for far too many . family be one mistake , a piece of bad luck or a decision that be no fault of their own away from disaster . that be no way to live . that be why this Budget — which ensure a pay rise for over 200 , 000 of the lowest - pay scot , let more family keep more of their hard - earn cash — be important for family right across the Livingston constituency . I want to come to this place to make sure that everyone , no matter their background , can thrive . that be what drive I and my politic . have grow up in a working - class family in a working - class town in central Scotland in the ' 80 and ' 90 , I have see what happen when people have opportunity and security , and what happen when they do not . my father work in a plastic plant in Grangemouth for over 35 year , provide our family with stability and dignity through unionised work . without it , I would not be here today . there be hope for the future . yesterday ' s Budget mark the end of the era of austerity , and raise much - need cash for our public service . this Labour Budget deliver the large budget settlement for the Scottish Government in the history of devolution . it mean there be an additional £ 1 . 5 billion for the Scottish Government to spend in this financial year , and an additional £ 3 . 4 billion next year . this be a significant increase in investment to ensure that we have the funding available for Scotland ' s NHS , school and public service . it be now for the SNP , which have lose its way in recent year , to get a grip and spend the money wisely . I recently visit the Larder , a social enterprise provide solution to poverty through learn opportunity and access to high - quality , affordable food . it support young people for whom traditional academic setting have often not work , help they to build skill and confidence . the Larder have have huge success in turn life around , so it can be do . we have the people and drive to build strong community . we have a Government who be on the side of work people , and we should not rest until everyone in this country have the opportunity that they need to build a more secure life for themselves and their family . that be what I resolve to spend my time in this place do , on behalf of people in the Livingston constituency . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . my journey here come via almost 10 year in local government , as an officer work on economic development and regeneration . I grow up among passionate socialist , but I also see the investment that small business all around I put into their local area , so I be delighted to be make my maiden speech , as the first Labour MP for Ribble Valley , in this debate on a Budget that truly harness the good of both social policy and great british enterprise . we need both , and we need they to work together . for a young woman , full of dream and want to change the world , sometimes our day - to - day can feel a pretty restrictive place to be . anyone who have feel hold back in their ambition will know that it can take just one or two people to believe in you , to make all the difference to whether you carry on or give up . I can not possibly name all the people who help I get here , but you know who you be , and it make all the difference that you never question for a second that I could do this . it be so easy to quickly take for grant that we be speak in a debate on a Budget present by the first ever woman Chancellor of the Exchequer . she will know as well as I do that as fairytale as our journey may seem at their high point right now , the prejudice and obstacle that we face , and that woman face every day , be still far too high . I have say it to many woman , and I will say it to any listening now : you be as smart and as capable as you think you be ; do not let anyone convince you otherwise . we need your fire . I have be in Westminster a few month now , and one thing I hear people say frequently about my predecessor , the right hon . Nigel Evans , be how much he love and care for this place that we stand in today . Mr Evans work incredibly hard and diligently as Deputy Speaker and on the restoration and renewal programme board . we be very lucky to have this well - manage centre of debate and challenge in the UK , and I be grateful to Mr Evans , and to all those who work here , for uphold our exceptional standard of democracy . I promise Mr Evans on the night of the election that I would take care of the Ribble Valley constituency that I know we both love . I can already safely say that I will likewise show this incredible institution of Westminster and our strong democracy the respect and protection that I know we both value so highly . I be one of those exceptionally lucky mp who have live in their constituency most of our life . it mean that I know it like the back of my hand . for well or bad , it also mean that I encounter situation like I do the other day , when one of my old Brownie leader call I over while do the school run to raise an issue about local social housing — I be on it , Jan , I promise . my constituency of Ribble Valley be a patchwork of our country ' s history and its future . we remember the battle of Bamber Bridge , when local stand up against white gi to welcome black US soldier into their pub — a brilliant example of the inclusion and multi - culturalism that make this country great . in Samlesbury , we have produce plane to protect the country since world war two , and I be delighted that progress on establish the National Cyber Force in my constituency be well under way . it will lead our country ' s research , develop our future security and build our skill in cyber . People be often surprise by the size of the Ribble Valley constituency . its boundary have change over the year , but it currently reach from the Lancashire - Yorkshire border , with picture - perfect village such as Tosside , Rimington , Waddington , West Bradford and Chipping , through to the lively suburb of Preston , take in Fulwood , Bamber Bridge and Walton - le - Dale , and almost reach the ribble estuary at the Irish sea . I see the breadth of my constituency as its depth . we have wonderful place to live , though much could be do to keep they safe and kinder . we have great transport link , with the M6 run through , and it be only two hour to London on the train from Preston . we also have utterly stunning countryside , include a large part of the trough of Bowland , where the late Queen say that she would have love to retire . strong community be so important to I , and both the rural and urban area of my constituency be make up of village that come together to create celebration such as the Lostock Hall carnival and the Broughton scarecrow festival just last week . right in the heart of my constituency be my home village of Ribchester , where my family have live since 1961 and where I be now raise my family . I must pay a quick tribute to the people of that village . from the amateur dramatic society and the church to the Brownie unit and the parish council , the village show I the good of what it mean to be british . I look forward to this Government ease the burden on family , so that they can spend more time contribute to the amazing community that we all need to thrive . the only person I know who love Ribble Valley more than I do be my dad . he travel the world , live in big city and in commune , dream of new way to live our life , but I recently find a letter that he write to himself at age 21 , in which he speak of the strange pull back to our beautiful little corner of the world , where he choose to raise his family and , without know it , raise the Labour MP he dream of it have . it be my deep sadness that my dad do not live to see I stand here , but I know that he relish every heated debate we have at the dinner table and , along with my mum — one of the most intelligent woman I know — I think my dad have an eye to what he be prepare I for . he be the big feminist I have ever know , and , in I , I think he raise the second big . a lot of my career have involve work on innovation policy , which have collide over time with my passion for social justice . I think we all need a vision to look towards , and I want we to be ambitious that our rapid advance in technology and automation should translate into great reward for worker . I would like to think that it be not too utopian to hope that we will move to a standard four - day working week in my lifetime . so much of what our society need do not necessarily cost money , but it do cost time — time to give our child focus play ; time to truly rest our body so that they do not crumble far too early ; and time to live slowly and to grow our own food , to reduce the huge demand on this Earth . technology can give we time , if that be where we choose to channel the benefit . before I finish , I will touch on my utmost priority as a Member of Parliament : work family . we need to make life much more tenable , more affordable and , dare I say , more joyful for parent , who want to contribute to our country while also raise good human . it be also critical to I that we make sure the child have the life , support and love they deserve . we have a vision for an innovative and high - growth economy , but we do not get innovation without diversity of thought . this Parliament be the most diverse in history , and I , as one of those new diverse member , be able to be here with my mental health just about intact only because my husband take three month of paternity leave with both our child . this mean that , when an election be call two day after I be select as the labour candidate , I do not have to spend a single second handing childcare over to he ; he already know how to change a nappy , what to pack in a bag and the book my child want to read at bedtime . I fully believe I would not be stand here now if he have not take paternity leave . that opportunity should not be rare . forgive I for speak in a hetero - normative context , but that be my personal experience . we know that few dad take up paternity or parental leave , which mean that many woman can not dream of put themselves forward for political office , as I do . know that my husband can confidently care for my child give I time to think , to organise and to dream . too many woman be still unable to do this because their mental load fill every bit of additional brain space they have . we need the idea and dream of mother and parent to propel our business , our public service and our society . I be delighted to join the campaign organisation Pregnant then Screwed and the Dad Shift early this month to try to shift the dial on parent equality . I hope to see some truly ambitious step change as our Government review paternity leave over this coming year , not only to create a new vision of fatherhood in this country , but to unlock the dream and plan of mother , which we have be so desperately lacking but which be so desperately important . I send a huge thank you to my incredible husband for hold the fort at home , and for be the foundation of my standing here today . finally , I want to acknowledge that it take a lot of bravery to be a girl or a young woman today ; it always have . it be relentless , scary and exhausting , especially for those with caring responsibility or face additional prejudice . there be a million reason to give up , and a million time I almost do , but please do not give up . I can promise you this : brave girl grow up , and one day you might stand here and be the one in charge .