thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be the privilege of my life to give my first speech in the House of Commons as the first Labour Member of Parliament for the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency . have be a candidate since 2022 , it still feel rather surreal to be on this side of the election and to say those word , and in truth I hope that stand here in this awe - inspire place will always feel at least a little surreal . I could not be more grateful to fellow resident for the time that thousand of they have give in speak with I and my volunteer team on their doorstep over the year already , and for put their faith in I to serve they well . but no matter how people vote , I will work hard every day to serve all resident as an active , impactful and approachable MP that they can be proud of . I come from a family of teacher , NHS worker and RAF service member , and their sense of public service run deep in I . I have spend my life work with and for those who too often do not have enough of a voice on issue that matter to they — on global poverty , on opportunity , on the environment and on the housing crisis . I be at my core a campaigner and advocate . I whole - heartedly believe in the power of community , and that live experience be as valid in shape policy and public service as hold multiple degree in that same subject . I see this role , which I be honour to hold for a time , as be a vital jigsaw piece , join together with other to make life fair for people across our community and our country . the NHS worker , the charity worker , the teacher , the carer , the innovator and the volunteer — I could go on — be the one who bind we . that be certainly the case across our rich tapestry of town and village just north of the city of Bristol in glorious South Gloucestershire . I be determined to put the whole of the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency — name after the old and young town at the time of its creation , and include many distinct and vibrant community — on the map . it be the home of Concorde and the future of flight , with our aerospace company set the standard nationally and internationally . it be the home of the lifesaving NHS blood and Transplant , the innovative University of the West of England and the vital Ministry of Defence Abbey Wood . it be also home to Wallace and Gromit , more place call Stoke then one could count after a few great local cider , and a palpable belief that well day still lie ahead . People in my constituency do not ask for too much . we want security , stability and fairness , and to know that if we work hard , we have the same chance as anyone else to fulfil our potential . we want to know that we will be able to provide for our family through good wage earn from decent job , and to enjoy life and give back in our own way . I be incredibly grateful for the fact that even though they have be up against so much in recent year , people in my community choose to keep their faith in well . I will work hard every day to repay that trust . with that in mind , while it be almost impossible for any two people , let alone 75 , 000 of we across a constituency , to agree on everything all the time , I will always be up front with fellow resident , will listen , and will share what decision I be make and why . I believe that how we do thing in politic matter almost as much as what we do . I appreciate my part — my responsibility — in do politic differently and have well conversation . on that note , I give thank to my predecessor . Jack Lopresti champion defence , and I know that he will be glad of this Government ' s continued support for Ukraine . before recent boundary change , some local resident be serve by Luke Hall , and briefly by my hon . friend the Member for Bristol North East ( Damien Egan ) , when he be the last member for Kingswood . my true thank to they and their predecessor for their service . I also want to give my personal thank to two other former member of this House who have be important in my journey to this place . Sally Keeble be the near Labour MP to I when I be grow up in a village that still do not have a Labour MP . she take I under her wing and first encourage I to think about stand to serve in this place . I also thank Tony Blair , whom I have the privilege of work closely with for a few year at his Institute for Global Change . his approach to consider and considerate leadership have teach I a great deal . it be the last Labour Government ' s response to the Make Poverty history campaign that show I that politic at its good can be an unparalleled force for good , and that significant change can happen when people power meet political power . that be when I first find the Labour party . I get into politic , like many , to make a difference , but I be drive every day by the simple belief that someone ' s background should not determine their life chance and life choice . that be why it feel fitting to give this speech today , in a debate that be fundamentally about how we make our Parliament well and fair . while I be a great supporter of british institution and tradition , there be clearly no place in a modern Parliament for people — largely man — who can vote on legislation as a birthright , because their father do . as a new officer of the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people , and as a soon - to - be member of the upcoming group focus on political and media literacy , I will work hard and across the divide to help other to feel as confident , capable and comfortable as anyone else in these space . I hope to show that if I can stand here today — a girl from a village who have , and still have , a simple belief in make life fair — so can anyone . I be fully commit to serve local people well , put our priority at the heart of the agenda and break down barrier to opportunity , so that everybody have their chance to thrive . I end by thank my family , friend , campaign team and community , who inspire I every day .