I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to review the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority ; and for connected purpose . from time to time , this House have ask itself the question : what value do we place on support for the victim of violent crime ? I believe that this be the right time to ask ourselves that question again . victim support can take many form , include non - financial measure . we have get well , but we must get well still , at recognise the lifelong impact that violent crime have on a person . victim would benefit from well sharing of information about support service , both public and voluntary , and the process for access NHS diagnostic and therapeutic support . that information sharing should start with the police , the ambulance service and the Crown Prosecution Service , and I be pleased to hear recently from the CPS west midland region about the enhanced victim support that be now in place . nevertheless , there will always be case in which financial loss have occur , or financial remedy be a necessary or otherwise appropriate mean of provide some measure of justice for those who have suffer assault . I think that member in all part of the House would wholeheartedly endorse the principle that , whenever possible , the perpetrator of violent crime should pay the cost of restitution . indeed , it be a welcome and remarkable achievement that the amount recover to fund support service through the victim surcharge — first introduce in 2007 — have nearly double over the last four year . however , the criminal injury compensation scheme exist because some offender lack , or can not be prove to possess , the asset or revenue to pay those cost — the so - call straw man of the justice system — and in still more case , the perpetrator of violence be never identify . crime statistic notoriously do not tell the full story , but in the West Midlands police force area , nearly one in five violent assault be not prosecute because no suspect can be name . I commend the chief constable , Craig Guildford , and the police and crime commissioner , Simon Foster , for their success in increase the number and the share of identified assailant , but the point stand . the animate force behind the current criminal injury compensation scheme be a Birmingham magistrate and the first secretary of the Howard League for Penal Reform , Margery Fry , who lead a campaign in the 1950 under the clarion call of " Justice for Victims . " she argue that criminal injury could not be narrowly consider to be a private matter between the assailant and the victim . just as we provide for each other in time of sickness through national insurance , so too , she argue , a duty be owe by the state when it fail to prevent one citizen from injure another . in her word , " the State … can not disown all responsibility for its occasional failure to protect . " today that same principle be set out by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority , which say that payment be sometimes need as an " acknowledgement of harm and an important gesture of public sympathy . " the criminal injury compensation scheme be now an integral part of the justice system , even if it be — as the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , put it last week — something of a " Cinderella service " . nothing that I say today be intend as a criticism of the staff of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority ; they work hard in difficult circumstance , give that staff number have fall by a fifth since the current iteration of the scheme be introduce in 2012 . the civil service people survey show that they take pride and find professional fulfilment in their work , and , as someone who once receive an award from the scheme , I remain grateful to they . important and positive improvement have be make since , six year ago , the Victims ' Commissioner publish an excoriate report . let I say at this point how welcome it be to see the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , in her place . I know that she care deeply about victim support as well as have specialist knowledge of this issue , and I be grateful to she for her thoughtful response and conversation about it . however , it be also clear that failing remain within the system , as we hear last week when member across party contribute to a debate in Westminster Hall . I draw particular attention today to the delay that too many applicant still experience ; a lack of signposting or integration with wide support service , and a general lack of public awareness of the scheme itself ; the trauma of dog attack on postal worker and other victim by new and ban breed , the victim of which be mostly ineligible for compensation follow change to the scheme in 2012 ; the recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse ; a supposedly £ 500 , 000 - a - year hardship fund , establish 13 year ago , that be now essentially a dead letter — the criterion be so restrictive that no payment have be make from it in the last seven year ; and the tariff system itself , as many serious and life - change injury be not cover at all . it be true that the upper cap on the scheme be generous by international standard , but the low limit of £ 1 , 000 have be freeze in cash term since 1992 . my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) refer in this place to annex B of the scheme , which define a " crime of violence " as include " a sexual assault to which a person do not in fact consent " . those be word and idea from another age . even if the court now adopt a more informed interpretation , the continued presence of that definition can only cause harm , and it must be strike from the scheme . these problem — and I believe , on the basis of my own casework and that of other member , that they do to an extent persist — impose a heavy burden on the victim of crime . like some other member , I bear the physical scar of violent crime , alongside other scar of a different and more subtle kind . I have speak previously , in another debate , about that experience , and I do not intend to repeat those word today . it be enough to ask hon . member to take it on trust that delay , the seemingly arbitrary rule of the scheme , the manner of the communication , and , sometimes , poor decision making can add to the sum of the pain that victim feel — a pain that can only be partially outweigh by the release that the end of the criminal injury process bring . a perpetrator might evade justice , but it be part of the nature of the trauma response that , at a slight or unexpected prompting , a victim may be compel to relive that crime again and again . that be why the Victims ' Commissioner have call for an overarching review of the scheme to establish " whether it actually fulfil its state remit : to acknowledge the harm suffer by victim of violent crime who have no other access to compensation , and to provide redress as part of a just and compassionate response . " that be what the Bill , which I beg leave to introduce , would achieve . the legislation would set out a simple requirement for a fundamental review , and for Ministers to report back to the House with proposal for further scrutiny and debate . I can not stand here and claim that easy answer exist to all these question . although I note that , to the good of my calculation , the cost of the scheme appear to be fall in real term , we live in straiten financial time . that be why it be well for reform of the scheme to be carry out in a deliberative manner , on the basis of accurate and recent evidence , and with the need of victim as the primary concern . to that end , I take heart from the Minister ' s statement that the Government do not plan change to the Scheme " at this time " . she go on to say : " the clear message to I be that we need change , and I will be consider how Government can well provide the support that victim need and deserve . " I also take heart from the Prime Minister ' s statement of personal support for the victim of violent crime when this matter be raise with he a fortnight ago by my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) . this issue touch the life of people in every one of our constituency . no amount of money can return someone to their mental or physical state prior to an assault , but a well - function , fair and compassionate scheme can bring victim some measure of justice . question put and agree to . order , that Laurence Turner , Charlotte Nichols , Michael Wheeler , Andy Slaughter , Warinder Juss , Antonia Bance , Chris Bloore , Catherine Atkinson , Kevin McKenna , Mark Sewards , Tim Roca and Alistair Strathern present the Bill . Laurence Turner accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June , and to be print ( Bill 231 ) .