Oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — sixth - form education : reform what plan she have to reform the provision of sixth - form education . this Government be focus on enhance and spread opportunity and grow our economy . we will ensure that a high quality range of post - 16 qualification be available to sixth form , through the independent curriculum and assessment review — which be well under way — and through the continue roll - out of t - level . in Spelthorne we have six secondary school , only two of which provide a - level ; the rest be middle school take pupil only up to GCSE level . there have be plan in the past to increase sixth - form provision in Spelthorne , but they have be in abeyance for two year . will the Minister please agree to meet I , so that we can work out what be cause this blockage and unlock the opportunity to which she have just refer ? obviously many thing need attention because of the last government , and many thing be not accomplish , but I be sure that my noble Friend Baroness Smith of Malvern will be willing to meet the hon . member to discuss his concern . in my constituency there be no a - level provision . some student have tell I that they have to travel for hour just to study , and other consider this a barrier to continue at school at all . will my hon . friend work with I to bring a - level back to Knowsley ? I thank my hon . friend for her thoughtful question . the Government be commit to ensure that young people have access to appropriate education and career opportunity , but the focus must be on deliver provision that offer they the well learning experience and opportunity possible . in Knowsley , a - level provision have not be deem viable owe to a lack of demand , but student there have access to high quality post - 16 academic provision in surround borough . I call the shadow Minister . Staff in non - academise sixth - form college be not be offer the same pay increase as staff in academise college . it be understand that a sum of money be available for post - 16 education , but college have be leave completely unclear about whether that sum will be enough to offset the national insurance increase or whether they will find , as university have , that it be entirely eat up by that increase . will the Minister agree to publish the cost of the national insurance increase to sixth - form college , and if she will not publish it , why on earth not ? I find it shock that the shadow Minister have take no responsibility for the many circumstance in which we have find ourselves have to make decision that be in the good interest of student and college . we be conduct various review to try to ensure that we put right the mess that we inherit . Primary School Breakfast Clubs : impact what assessment she have make of the potential impact of introduce free primary school breakfast club on child . breakfast club break down barrier to opportunity so that child be ready to learn . they be prove to boost attendance , attainment , wellbeing and behaviour , and they also provide essential childcare option for parent . in only a few day , hundred of school have apply to become early adopter because they know that these club can improve child ' s life chance and , crucially , academic standard . as a former youth worker and a former school governor , I know that this initiative will make a huge difference , and I have write to all the school in my constituency encourage they to apply . will the Secretary of State please outline the next step ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the work that he be undertake in make his local school aware of the opportunity that breakfast club present . the early adopter scheme will enable up to 750 participate school to start provide they from April 2025 onwards . we have triple investment in breakfast club follow the Budget . school have until 20 December to apply for the scheme , and I would encourage many more to do so . thousand of school be already participate in the national school breakfast club programme , include many special school and secondary school , but the club actually have a big effect on attendance . the Secretary of State have talk a great deal about breakfast club in primary school , but what be the future for the exist club in those special and secondary school ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the interest that I know — from his former role — he take in this issue . we be build on the exist programme , expand investment and opportunity , but I agree with he that we need to ensure that breakfast club be available to all child , include those with special educational need and disability . to ensure that the roll - out be a success , some of the early adopter will be in special and alternative provision school . I welcome the decision to introduce breakfast club , which will have an amazing impact on pupil in my constituency and everywhere else . will the Secretary of State tell we a little about the logistic of roll out the programme throughout the country , and how quickly that can be do ? as I say , school have until 20 December to apply to take part in the early adopter scheme . that be because we want to ensure that we establish the scheme , and understand the benefit and challenge , before we roll it out across the country . we be determined to get this right , and we will build on the early adopter to deliver universal free breakfast club in every primary school in England . while the child ' s wellbee Bill propose statutory breakfast programme , research from the Food Foundation show that such club be more likely to benefit wealthy family because of the convenience that they offer work parent . by contrast , offer child free school lunch be know to help iron out inequality . some 800 , 000 child in poverty be ineligible for free school meal , and more than 200 , 000 eligible child be not register . do the Secretary of State agree that expand school lunch , and implement auto - enrolment for free school meal for all child , would be an effective and equitable approach to tackle food insecurity and support our child ' s health and academic performance ? the hon . Lady be right to identify the importance of ensure that all our child have healthy , balanced and nutritious diet , include at school . however , she will know that the situation that this Government inherit from the previous Government mean that we have have to take some very tough decision . we will set out more in due course as we set out legislation that we promise in the King ' s Speech . I slightly take issue with some of the evidence she point to , because the evidence on breakfast club demonstrate wide benefit for all child in attainment , wellbee and overall performance . I call the shadow Minister . because of the increase in national insurance , the Early Years Alliance be warn of a 20 % increase in fee for early year parent , which affect nursery and thing like pay - for breakfast club . it say that the Budget will be a " recipe for total disaster " , with up to four in 10 early year provider close unless drastic action be take . as a first step towards avert that disaster , will the Secretary of State now agree to publish the Department ' s estimate of how much the national insurance increase will cost early year provider ? if she will not publish it , why not ? do the House not deserve to have this information ? I take the concern of early year provider very seriously indeed , and we will set out in due course the funding rate and the approach that we be take . the hon . Gentleman and the conservative party be very keen to complain about and criticise the measure that we set out in the Budget , yet the Leader of the Opposition herself say that she would refuse to reverse they . they want all the benefit — the teacher , the breakfast club and rise standard — but they be not prepared to take the tough decision that be necessary . as a former Treasury Minister , the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , should know well , because she see the scale of the fiscal inheritance that this Government inherit from her party . teacher Recruitment and Retention what step she be take to improve teacher recruitment and retention in Portsmouth North constituency . what step she be take to improve teacher recruitment and retention . as the first step towards our opportunity mission , we have begin the critical work of recruit 6 , 500 new expert teacher . we have fully fund a 5 . 5 % pay award , begin ofsted reform , and take step to make teacher ' work more flexible and ensure that workload be more manageable . I be determined to reset the relationship between Government and the workforce to drive high and rise standard for all our child . at a recent local public meeting in Paulsgrove , Portsmouth , parent raise concern about school provision and the learn environment . as a local authority , we sit in the bottom three in the league table . what step be the Secretary of State take not only to improve recruitment and retention in specialist subject , but to ensure that there be key staff in specialist area , where different learning environment be need in our classroom ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the challenge that we face in particular part of the country , and there be no great champion of Portsmouth than she and the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) . we be take step to ensure that teaching be the go - to profession for our good graduate , as well as ensure that we keep experience , well - qualified professional in teaching . on specialist support , we have set out measure around SEND reform and additional investment to address the challenge that my hon . friend identify . I begin by thank all the teacher , support staff and senior leader in my constituency of Southgate and Wood Green , and across the country , for their hard work ensure that our child receive the high quality education they deserve . teacher ' pay , their workload and the environment in which they work have be highlight as reason why they leave the profession . can my right hon . Friend tell the House what step she be take to address the reason for teacher quit the profession ? I join my hon . friend in praise the amazing teacher and support staff in his constituency and across our country for the vital work that they do . I want to ensure not only that we keep teacher in the profession but that they thrive in it , which be why I be pleased to agree to the recommendation of a 5 . 5 % pay award , but we know that there be much more to do to keep experience , dedicated staff in the profession . I know from speak to many of they that many of the challenge they face go way beyond the school gate . that be why I be proud to lead the work on child poverty , together with the Work and Pensions Secretary , to address some of the driver of workload and pressure that many of our school staff be face . some 9 , 000 woman in their 30 leave teaching in 2022 - 23 . this be the single big age group leave teaching in Bath and across the country . will the Government improve maternity pay for teacher and teaching assistant ? the hon . Lady be right to identify that challenge , and I have use that statistic many time myself . I be really concerned about the big number of experienced woman , particularly those in their 30 , who leave teaching because they find it too difficult to combine work with family life . that be why , as part of what we have set out to the School Teachers Review Body process , we have ask it to look specifically at some of those challenge . as part of our wide work across Government to make work pay , we be ensure well right at work and that maternity protection be roll out for worker across our country . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which show that I be in the 19th year of be a proud primary school governor . the Secretary of State will know that school be lead by teacher but also that many volunteer go towards make our school the brilliant place of learn that they be . too many of the school in my constituency have vacancy for governor . will the Secretary of State tell we what she be do to increase the recruitment and retention of school governor ? I congratulate the hon . Lady on the important work that she do as a school governor . they be the unsung hero across our community in term of the support they provide to our school . I recognise the increase challenge that she set out around how we can ensure that people come forward to take on those important role . that be why we have be work with the body represent governor to ensure that we attract more people into those important role to drive forward standard in our school . Primary School Breakfast Clubs what step she be take to increase the availability of breakfast club in primary school . what step she be take to increase the availability of breakfast club in primary school . school with primary age pupil can now apply to become early adopter of the universal free breakfast club programme start from April 2025 . up to 750 participate school will be fund to provide access to a free universal breakfast club last at least 30 minute that include food . in my constituency , parent speak to I about their worry and concern regard education provision and support . these range from be able to get their child into a good local school to how they will be able to continue to work while parent . will my hon . friend outline far the benefit that breakfast club will bring to parent and pupil in constituency such as mine ? this Government be commit to make quick progress to deliver on our commitment to offer a free breakfast club in every primary school to ensure that child be ready to learn at the start of the school day . the Chancellor have announce a tripling of investment in breakfast club , drive improvement to behaviour , attendance and attainment and , for parent , more choice over childcare . I have contact all the primary school in my constituency to encourage they to become early adopter . child poverty in my constituency stand at 12 . 1 % , and food bank use have rise by 433 % over the last five year . do my hon . friend agree that breakfast club will be part of the solution by help to lift child out of poverty , give they food in their belly to start the school day and encourage their parent back into part - time employment ? parent and carer up and down the country be still struggle with the cost of living . as part of our mission to bring down barrier to opportunity , breakfast club give parent and carer the confidence that their child can access a breakfast , should they need one , and we be support family to work with the cost of childcare . it be a pity that the Conservatives can not say whether they back our plan to deliver well life chance for all child in all part of the country . nursery and the small business that provide before and after - school club be be whack by national insurance increase , and there be little clarity from the Government about how these breakfast club will work , which have the potential to undermine another part of their business model . what representation have the Education Secretary make to the Chancellor to deal with the massive hole that she have blow in her plan ? we take no lecture from the conservative party on how it fail child over the last 14 year . I have hear provider ' concern about early year funding , and I recognise the importance of local authority and provider plan ahead for the pivotal expansion year . we will be update the House very soon on that issue . recently I meet my constituent Farhan Adam , a winner of headmaster of the year , who lament the fact that he spend more time address issue such as food insecurity than do what he love , which be teach . this be not surprising as , accord to the Food Foundation , approximately 18 % of household with child be experience food insecurity . do the Secretary of State agree that , in addition to breakfast club , lift the two - child cap would help to alleviate this problem ? breakfast club offer a huge amount , include food and club provision . I encourage the hon . member to consider that for roll - out in his constituency . more broadly , he will be aware of the ministerial taskforce focus on child poverty , which will report in the new year . SEN provision : fund what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure that SEN provision be adequately fund . the Government recognise that break down barrier to opportunity for child with special educational need and disability will take a cross - Government approach . to that end , I recently meet the Minister for Care , my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) , to discuss how we can work together to solve some of the challenge . the Department for Education be commit to ensure adequate support for child with special educational need and disability , and recently announce £ 740 million of capital funding to support child with SEN to learn and thrive in mainstream setting . a recent National Audit Office report make it clear that , without reform , the SEN system be financially unsustainable . the Minister will know that , since 2020 , local authority such as Buckinghamshire council have be able to exclude their dedicated school grant deficit from their main revenue budget . that statutory override mean that local authority do not breach their duty to set a balanced budget , but it be due to end in March 2026 , and there be currently no identify solution . can the Minister share more on what urgent conversation she be have with colleague to ensure that local authority get the certainty they need ? the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government regulation , which ringfence dedicated support grant deficit from council ' wide financial position , be amend . the statutory override go up to March 2026 , when it expire , and we be currently consider how good to continue support for local authority with deficit . fundamentally , this be about reform the system to ensure that more child can be educate within a mainstream setting , and that we have special school place available for those with the most complex need . Perranporth academy in my constituency plan to provide significant SEN provision , but it be one of 44 school currently under a value - for - money review . as of last week , the head of Perranporth primary school have not be consult on this . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the plight of Perranporth academy ? I appreciate my hon . friend ' s concern , and we recognise the unprecedented pressure that local authority be under . high need funding , which we recently increase , will benefit both mainstream school and special school because we will ensure the funding reach child who need it . however , I recognise the issue and concern that he raise , and will be happy to arrange a meeting to discuss this far . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . last week ' s announcement of capital funding to ensure that mainstream school be more inclusive for child with special need be , of course , welcome , but the Minister will know that , for many child with additional need , even the most inclusive mainstream school simply be not appropriate . with two in three special school at or over capacity , can she provide a timeline for when the 67 plan special free school will be deliver ? will she commit to look favourably on local authority application for such school ? I thank the hon . Lady for her recognition of the additional funding . we expect the funding to create thousand of new place , particularly in mainstream school but also in special school and other specialist setting . we will confirm the allocation for individual local authority in the spring , as they know good how to invest in their local area . we be keep the free school programme under review and will provide that confirmation in due course . support for Kinship Carers what step she be take to improve support for kinship carer . support kinship placement be critical to deliver our opportunity mission to ensure that child grow up in safe and love home . we have recently announce a £ 40 million package to trial a kinship allowance . the trial will test whether an allowance can support more child to settle with family and friend . I recently meet kinship carer in Norwich , who do an amazing job in very difficult circumstance . one of the big challenge they face be financial support . kinship ' s recent " forgotten " report find that child in kinship care be struggle because of an inaccessible and complicated picture of support . have the Minister make an assessment of extend relevant financial support , such as pupil premium plus , to all child in kinship care ? this Government acknowledge and appreciate the crucial role that kinship carer play . I be pleased that the virtual school head scheme have be expand to support kinship child . I encourage kinship carer and school to work together to support kinship child and those with identify need . the Department will continue to review the matter , to ensure that child get the right support . I welcome the Minister ' s response about kinship carer . what progress have be make on offer kinship carer respite provision , so that they can be give short - term break to ease the pressure face kinship family ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his very good question . it be important that kinship carer , as well as the child they be look after , have the support they need . through the process of family group decision making , family will come together to have conversation about how good to support child in kinship care . Respite and other related matter will be discuss to ensure that the right provision be in place . this Government be commit to get it right for child , especially where the previous Government fail . skill Training what step she be take to reform skill training . what step she be take to reform skill training . what step she be take to reform skill training . what step she be take to reform skill training . the previous Government leave behind a skill system that be fragment and fail : fall number of apprenticeship for young people ; adult unable to find the training course they need ; business confused ; and no plan to equip people with the skill for the economy and opportunity of tomorrow . we be turn the page by establish Skills England to unify that fragmented landscape , and bring forward a plan for post - 16 education and skill , which will deliver the education and training pathway that our economy , employer and learner need . some 3 . 8 million people age 19 and over benefit from skill education in England every year . I pay tribute to all the hard - work professional employ in further education , include at Shipley college in my constituency . however , business in Saltaire tell I that they struggle to recruit people with the digital and tech skill that they need locally . I welcome step take by the Government to address skill shortage vacancy . will the Secretary of State assure I that the benefit of Skills England will be feel by business in Shipley ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the staff at Shipley college . she be right that it be time that we , as a country , take skill much more seriously . we be leave with skill shortage in many key area , include those she identify . we will be give business the flexibility they have be ask for , to unlock growth and drive opportunity through the reform growth and skill levy . when I speak to small business in my constituency of Hexham , they regularly decry an inability to recruit young people from the area , who want to remain in the area where they grow up . will the Secretary of State assure I that we will be work with small and medium - sized business to ensure that young people can remain where they grow up , should they wish to do so , which sadly be very hard under the previous government ? follow on from small business Saturday , we all recognise that small employer be the backbone of our economy . my hon . friend be right that it should not be the case that young people in place such as Hexham should have to get out in order to get on . we be create Skills England to fill the skill gap we see across our country . Skills England will also work with our regional mayor to ensure that we address some of the regional inequality we see , as well as some of the opportunity area , because we know that particular part of the country have a real ability to drive forward growth , job and opportunity . South Staffordshire college ' s creative art faculty be base at Lichfield college in my constituency . in January , it will open a new state - of - the - art recording studio and rehearsal space that will allow student to develop skill in both music performance and music production , ensure that they be well prepared for career in the creative art for their entire future . do the Secretary of State agree that such investment be essential for the UK to maintain its role as a global leader in the creative art , and that the Government should support they wherever they can ? absolutely . that be why we set out in the Budget an additional £ 300 million of capital investment for our college . I be sure that the opportunity that my hon . friend set out be just the kind that we need to see across our country . the creative industry have a crucial role to play in drive growth in community right across our country , and through our curriculum and assessment review we will ensure that all young people have the chance to study a wide range of subject . this morning I have the pleasure of visit South Essex college in my constituency , which offer a significant variety of post - 16 skill - base course , from theatre and music production through to digital skill , robotic and hospitality . the college be keen to raise the aspiration of local young people , match their ambition with the need of employer in the region . what role do the Secretary of State see the further education sector playing in deliver the Government ' s skill agenda ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that our further education college have a crucial role to play in provide opportunity for our young people and for adult returner to education . college have a strong impact on regional economic growth . we think that they have a big role to play still , which be why they will be a central part of what we take forward through Skills England . at the general election , the Government say that they would specifically target technical training in area such as construction , engineering and digital , in order to take pressure off immigration into key role , so why be they fail to act on the pay gap between further education teaching post and those in school ? I agree that there be a very big pay gap for further education ; I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that it take place over the last 14 year , during which his party be in power . I absolutely accept the challenge that more be require , because our further education college have a crucial role to play , but that be the situation we inherit from the conservative party . the Secretary of State will be aware that all analysis of the supply of green skill , such as the recent global climate talent stocktake , show a massive undersupply of such skill . demand be grow at double the rate of supply . what be the Government ' s plan to address that important shortfall , and will the Secretary of State or her official meet I to discuss how such plan might include unblock the approval of new qualification — for example , the currently block natural history GCSE ? I agree that there be lot of job opportunity in the year to come in clean technology , green job and much more besides . that be why we have start work very quickly to begin the process of legislate to establish Skills England , which already exist in shadow form . it have already undertake an audit of what more be require . I know that there be lot of fantastic new job out there connect to construction and engineering that align very much with our drive towards net zero . I be more than happy to ensure that the hon . Lady get a meeting on the topic . there have never be great urgency for we to equip our young people with the skill they need to enter a career in farming , yet only half of those who take level 3 agricultural apprenticeship in Cumbria last year complete they , and no level 4 apprenticeship be available . will the Secretary of State look at this worrying situation , pay personal attention to it , and provide the funding necessary for we to have agricultural apprenticeship in Britain ' s lead agricultural county ? I be more than happy to look personally at the issue that the hon . Gentleman set out , to ensure that we do more in this area . he will be aware that we have a review under way of level 3 qualification , but we know that as a country we need to do much more on level 4 and 5 qualification as well . if he will share further information with I , I will happily look into the matter . Lytchett Minster school in my constituency be proud of its record in deliver level 3 BTecs ; in fact , its sixth form would not survive without BTecs . what assurance can the Secretary of State give I about the continuation of these really important qualification , which suit less academically able child ? we be make good progress on our post - 16 qualification reform review , which will report by the end of the year , so the hon . Lady do not have long to wait to hear the outcome of that review . I call the shadow Minister . before the election , Labour promise to let business spend 50 % of their apprenticeship levy money on non - apprenticeship , but now minister say the commitment be under review . minister be take away the flexibility of business to spend their own money on level 7 apprenticeship — a big change to the principle of the levy . will the Secretary of State confirm when the review of her own policy will conclude , and will she rule out do to level 6 apprenticeship what she be do to level 7 apprenticeship ? we remain committed to reform the fail apprenticeship levy and turn it into a growth and skill levy with up to 50 % flexibility for employer , drive new opportunity in growth area across our country , alongside ensure that we deliver many more apprenticeship start for our young people . we inherit a situation where apprenticeship start be fall at a time when we urgently need to invest in the skill of the next generation . we will work with business through Skills England to drive forward what be require for adult learner as well as young people . creative Education : school what step she be take to support creative education in school . all child deserve a rich and broad education so that they do not miss out on subject , such as music , art and drama . as part of our opportunity mission , we have launch an independent , expert - lead curriculum and assessment review , and we be commit to ensure that young people be support to study creative subject . over the past 14 year , the amount of creative education , particularly at primary level , have be reduce and reduce , so I welcome what the Minister say . there be evidence that do creative thing and learn creative subject improve our wellbeing , mental health and academic learning . would the Minister support my campaign to bring musical instrument teaching to every primary school in the country , not just the more well - off one ? my hon . friend speak with great wisdom . we have confirm £ 79 million of funding for a national network of music hub to give child and young people the opportunity to learn to sing or play an instrument , to create music and to progress their musical interest and talent . we have also launch the music opportunity pilot , with £ 5 . 8 million of funding over four year to support student with special educational need and disability and those with less mean to access the opportunity to do so . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Secretary of State have make it clear that she would like more time spend on creative subject , but she must ensure that do not come at the expense of an academic education . last week ' s international education stat find that english child be the good at math in the western world . that be brilliant news and testament to the hard work of teacher and pupil . it be also down to a world - class curriculum put in place by the previous Government . will she finally celebrate those result and instruct her curriculum review that it must not dilute academic standard and put that progress at risk ? from their shameless sense of pride , we would never know that the Conservative Government leave England ' s school standard get bad . conservative Members may be happy that half of disadvantaged pupil in state school do not meet the requirement in reading , writing or math at the end of primary school , but we do not think their record be anything to be proud of . standard be the watchword for this Labour Government , and not just for some of our child but for all of they . Commercial Sexual Exploitation : harm if she will take step to educate child about the harm of commercial sexual exploitation . secondary school be require to teach about sexual exploitation , and this Labour Government be commit to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . education have a key role to play in address that . I agree entirely . as we near the end of the 16 day of activism , it be really important that we continue to talk about commercial sexual exploitation , which be the exchange of money , accommodation , service or good for sex act . it have an impact on all young people ' s life , include in my constituency of Monmouthshire , particularly through exposure to violent online pornography , as well as via the damaging message convey by the fact that there be legal impunity for run pimp website . do the Minister agree that school should be support in address these issue through a whole - school approach to combat sexism and sexual harassment , as advocate by organisation such as UK Feminista ? of course I agree with my hon . friend that take a whole - school approach to tackle sexual abuse and violence be incredibly important . the statutory guidance be very clear that relationship and sexual health education should be deliver through a whole - school approach . through our safe street and opportunitie mission , the Government be consider how good to support school in tackle this issue . Applied General Qualifications : review what progress her Department have make on its review of applied general qualification . we be make good progress with the review of qualification reform , which have focus on the level 3 qualification that be schedule to have their funding remove on 31 July 2025 . we be work quickly to provide certainty to the sector , and will publish the outcome of the review before the end of the year . I draw the House ' s attention to my declare interest : I be the governor of a sixth - form college . I thank the Minister for that answer , but she will know that the certainty that she hope to give be simply not there . college have have to put off printing prospectus . they have have open evening and assembly for school at which they have not be able to confirm what they will teach . there be staff allocation issue , and they have even be ask to make projection about t - level funding for t - level that they be not sure they will have the pupil number for , because they do not know which equivalent BTecs will be stand down . they will enter 2025 not know what they can teach . do she think that be acceptable ? what support will there be for college that will have to turn thing around very quickly , whatever the outcome of the review ? I thank my hon . friend for really push I on this issue , and for explain the situation so well . I acknowledge to he and the sector the uncertainty and difficulty in this area . follow the election , we move quickly to pause the defunding that be schedule for 31 July 2024 . I fully appreciate that college need time to plan their provision , and that student need time to plan what course they will take . we be work as quickly as possible to conclude the review , and we will publish the outcome before the end of the year . child Poverty what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to reduce level of child poverty . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to reduce level of child poverty . tackle child poverty be at the heart of our opportunity mission . after a decade of Conservative Government , far too many child be grow up in poverty . it be a scar on our society , a blight on young life , and the centrepiece of the Conservatives ' shameful legacy . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions and I be get on with the job of chair the child poverty taskforce , which have start the urgent work need ahead of the publication of our child poverty strategy in spring 2025 . during the summer , I visit the holiday activity and food programme run by Stockton borough council , which provide a healthy meal for low - income family in my constituency . can my right hon . friend provide some assurance that funding for that programme will continue into next year ? I join my hon . friend by extend my thank to the staff at Stockton borough council for their hard work on the holiday activity and food programme over the past year . we be work through our budget settlement to agree measure to support family during the holiday , and in due course we will set out what further step we can take . he will know , as I do , that while talent be spread across our country , opportunity be not . his constituency be full of child whom the Conservatives let down . this Labour Government will break down barrier . we know that child grow up in poverty on average do less well in education , with many child also have to miss out on other enriching school activity such as day out because they simply can not afford they . do the Secretary of State agree that every child , include the almost 7 , 000 child live in poverty in my Sherwood Forest constituency , should have the same opportunity to thrive at school , and that tackle child poverty be essential in ensure that every child can succeed ? I agree ; it be absolutely right that child in my hon . friend ' s constituency deserve every chance to achieve and thrive , and that be the ultimate goal of our child poverty taskforce . as the Prime Minister set out just last week through our plan for change , we want to give every child the good start in life , and that be just not possible if million of child across our country be grow up in poverty . SEND pupil : support what step her Department be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step her Department be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . the Government ' s ambition be that all child with special educational need receive the right support to succeed , where possible in mainstream school . we will strengthen accountability and improve inclusivity through Ofsted , and we will support professional to develop their SEND expertise . high need funding will increase by almost £ 1 billion in the next spending year . child with special educational need and disability in Shropshire be relatively poorly fund compare with those in the rest of the country . top - up funding for those with the high level of need be just £ 7 , 000 , mean that the school that support they can not even afford a full - time teaching assistant to help they progress . can the Minister describe what she be do to ensure that funding be fairly distribute across the country , so that child with special educational need can get the help they need wherever they live ? we know that local authority have be significantly impact by increase demand for education , health and care plan , as well as challenge in workforce capacity . we expect the £ 740 million of additional investment to create thousand of new place in both mainstream and special school and in specialist setting . we will confirm the allocation to specific local authority , which know how good to invest in their local area to increase capacity as need , in the spring . across Surrey last year , more than 1 , 800 child with special educational need be absent from school for more than a third of the time . special educational need co - ordinator be incredibly frustrated that ehcp be come back from our local council with the wrong name , describe the wrong condition and offer the wrong package of care . teacher be stretch , headteacher can not stretch their budget any far , and one or both parent be have to give up employment to look after their child , yet the leadership of Surrey county council have say that there be not a problem with special educational need , but that there be parent who be too articulate . would the Minister please meet I and senco to discuss this very serious — order . can I just say to the hon . Gentleman that it be much easy if he get to the question , instead of have all the preamble ? I can not get other people in . I think the question be clear . follow the most recent local area SEND inspection by Ofsted and the Care Quality Commission in September 2023 , the Department — work alongside NHS England — continue to track the progress that the Surrey partnership be make against the area for improvement that be identify , offer support and advice to the local authority . I appreciate the significant concern that the hon . Gentleman outline , and we will continue to keep the situation under review . Bradstow special school in my constituency support some of the most vulnerable child across the south - east . More than half of those child be from family in Kent , yet tory - lead Kent county council have refuse to pay £ 2 million in fee , contribute to that school now face closure . Kent have be offer the school for free , include all of its land , yet it be refuse to keep the school open . will the Minister join I in urge Kent county council to take responsibility and work with the govern body , staff and child ' s family to ensure that we can keep this vital school open ? if we be to improve the situation that far too many child face in relation to special educational need and disability , and to meet demand , which we know be outstrip supply , it be vital that area work together in partnership . that be why we very much recommend that local authority work together with health partner and local school to solve some of those challenge together . the Department for Education will work closely with they to make sure that every child get the education they deserve . a National Audit Office report publish in October highlight that special educational need place in independent school can cost two and a half time as much as in state school . do the Minister agree that if we be to ensure that child get the support they need in future , we will have to assist local authority in expand their number of special need place ? my hon . friend raise an important point . we know that the situation need reform , and that we need much great capacity within mainstream school so that child with special educational need and disability can be educate alongside their peer where that be the appropriate place for they to be , but also so that special school place be available where need . that be why we have put in £ 740 million of additional investment to support mainstream school to expand their specialist provision . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . child grow up in our country deserve the good start in life , and nothing less . that be why , last week , the Prime Minister publish his plan for change , include an ambitious target to ensure that , by the end of the Parliament , a record proportion of child be ready for school . we will do this by transform the early year , create and expand nursery , roll out childcare , strengthen family service and focus on early intervention . Mr Speaker , as we approach the end of the term , I wish you and all the staff of the House a very merry Christmas , and send my thank to all the staff work across education . I have meet private school in and around Tatton that be attend by my constituent ' child , and they have all I tell that , despite have apply for a vat number , not one of they have receive it . will the Secretary of State explain to I what discussion she be have with the Chancellor to put this right , particularly in the light of the rush implementation of this misguided ideological policy in January ? I would be happy to make sure that the point the right hon . Lady raise be look into , but on the wide policy priority , I say to she that this party and this Government be determined to expand opportunity right across our country for the vast majority of child , who go to state school . the opposition may be happy to defend the indefensible , but should they wish to oppose what we be set out , they need to say how they be go to pay for it . I have be contact by many parent who be desperate to secure a place in a special school for their child , but in Nottingham there be a severe lack of availability . while I wholeheartedly support effort to improve SEND support in mainstream school and to deliver an education system that be truly inclusive , it seem clear that we also desperately need an increase in the number of special school place . what step be the Government take in this area ? I appreciate my hon . friend ' s concern . as she will know , this Government inherit a broken system from the previous Government . we want to make sure that all child with SEND receive the support they need to achieve and thrive . we have announce £ 740 million of high need capital funding for next year for additional place , which will support our ambition to improve inclusivity in mainstream school . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 be pass by Parliament prior to the election . by the end of its passage through both Houses , the Labour party have agree in principle with the need for the Act . however , just after the election , Government source say the Act be a Tory " hate speech charter " . now I read in the paper that the Department may commence the legislation without the tort . can I ask the Secretary of State to clear up this mess and to tell the House what her plan be for the freedom of speech Act ? this Government be absolutely committed to freedom of speech and academic freedom . we want to make sure that our university be place of intellectual challenge and rigour , where people will be expose to view with which they may disagree . we pause commencement of the previous Government ' s legislation because of the serious concern raise by very many people , include from minority group , about how the Act would apply . we be consult with stakeholder , and we intend to set out our position in due course . since the Secretary of State decide to pause this legislation , gender - critical woman , among other , have rack up enormous legal fee , which have cause some to remortgage their house . Professor Jo Phoenix have say publicly that if it have be in force , the Act would have save she that precise ordeal . inaction have consequence , and this delay be cause harm . will the Secretary of State accept that , and get on with implement the legislation ? I do accept that academic should be free to express a wide range of view , and there will be view that people sometimes find challenging , but it also matter that we have legislation that be workable . I be afraid that the legislation the right hon . Lady ' s party set out just do not achieve that , and we have have to consider so many challenge raise by minority group . the former Universities Minister herself say that she be concerned about what it would mean for Holocaust denial on campus . we need to get this right . for 14 year , government have criticise teacher , and this have have a dreadful effect on recruitment and retention . will the Minister please update the House on the measure she be take to tackle this serious problem ? may I , too , take this opportunity to wish a merry Christmas to all of our teacher and school support staff when they finally get to the Christmas break ? we be work at pace to recruit 6 , 500 new teacher . we have fully fund the 5 . 5 % pay award , we have remove reductive headline Ofsted judgment , and we be work to reduce workload and ensure more flexibility . we have announce a £ 233 million package of recruitment incentive , and we be very committed to support our teaching workforce . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . a new report from the Institute for Public Policy Research show that the most deprived area have a third few childcare place than the most affluent . if the Government be serious about improve school readiness among our child , will the Secretary of State look at the liberal Democrat proposal to triple the early year pupil premium so that we can tackle the disadvantage gap when it matter most ? I do recognise the challenge the hon . Lady set out and the very real challenge the Government have inherit in the provision of place . our approach of roll out nursery space within primary school be crucial to create the place that be require . there be more that we need to do . the system and sector overall require reform , and we will set out more in this area before long . my constituent Alison Duxbury be unable to finalise her divorce because of the delay to assessment in the teacher ' pension scheme , which her husband be part of . Alison be not alone ; many other be suffer serious stress and unacceptable delay . will the Minister meet I to unlock this bureaucratic logjam ? I recognise the difficulty my hon . friend have outline . change to pension entitlement have cause the significant backlog in processing that we have inherit , but good progress be now be make . the Department and the administrator be focus on speed it up . I appreciate the concern he have raise and he might want to write to I with more detail , or a meeting could certainly be arrange . on a recent visit , I see the benefit of the SEN unit in all Saints school in Sidley . do the Minister think that SEN unit have a big role to play , and will Ministers meet I to discuss the funding challenge such unit face ? I recognise the issue the hon . Gentleman raise . it be important that we have the right balance between mainstream inclusion and specialist provision where it be need . if it would be helpful for he to have a meeting to discuss specific concern in his area , I would more than happy to arrange it . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on baby , I be delighted that the announcement on Thursday include a one - year continuation of the Start for Life programme , which provide funding for 75 local authority . we would , however , very much like all authority to be able to access this funding in future so that every child be guarantee the good start . be the Secretary of State willing to meet the APPG in the new year to outline her long - term vision for support child development at the young age ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the importance of early support for baby . the plan for change set out that we will improve support through pregnancy and early childhood . the Start for life programme be the responsibility of Department of Health and Social Care Ministers , but official would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this important issue . what step be under way to recruit and retain more educational psychologist so that child , include in Chesham and Amersham , do not have to wait as long as they currently be for the assessment they need ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . we be work at pace to ensure that we have more professional , along with the Department of Health and Social Care , which be also ensure that we have the right workforce to support all child with special educational need . I will write to the hon . Lady with specific detail of the step be take . after year of failure by West Sussex county council to plan properly for secondary school place , parent in Shoreham face another year of wait to find out if their child will have to travel a long distance for their education . will the Minister meet I to discuss their concern ? local authority have a statutory duty to ensure that there be sufficient secondary school place and that child can go to school , and travel should not be a barrier to their get to school . I know how important this issue be for parent , and I would be happy to arrange a meeting for my hon . friend to discuss it far . my constituent , 14 - year - old Lewis , have be out of school for two year and his education have be disrupt for four . he be yet another child whose parent have be tell by Kent county council that he must attend a particular school despite the school say that it be unable to meet his specific educational need . this be typical of the battle that many family I see have to go through for year , cost they time and money and cause infinite stress . will the Minister meet I and the parent to ensure that he be one of the last child to suffer from Kent county council ' s continual neglect of SEN child ? the hon . Lady raise an important matter , which far too many people be have to raise . I would be happy to meet she not only to discuss this matter far , but to reiterate the step we be take to fix this broken SEND system . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . we know that good quality early year education can play a significant role in close the disadvantage gap , yet the Government have inherit a situation in which family who live in disadvantaged area be the least likely to be able to access good quality childcare . how will the Secretary of State ensure that access to good quality childcare and early year education be at the heart of the Government ' s child poverty strategy ? I agree strongly , and that be why , alongside additional investment , there must be reform . we will make sure that the area that my hon . friend identifie be address . I look forward to discuss they in front of the Select Committee before too long . I recently visit the excellent Haven SEND unit at Budehaven community school in North Cornwall , and I invite the Minister to visit so that it can be replicate elsewhere . do she plan to extend the unit ' s fund beyond February ' s cliff edge , give that Cornwall council ' s SEND deficit be currently £ 12 million and counting ? local authority normally support special unit in school with funding from their high need budget , but official would be happy to investigate the funding arrangement for this school . Cornwall county council be be allocate a provisional amount of more than £ 86 . 6 million in the 2025 - 26 financial year through the high need national funding formula , but we be happy to take away the particular issue that the hon . Gentleman raise . parent , teacher and student in my constituency be horrify to find out that the University of Brighton Academies Trust have be take a whopping 20 % of the Government grant mean for our local school and education . what be the Minister do to resolve these issue and make sure that every child in Hastings and Rye get the good quality education ? I agree with my hon . friend . outcome in some school in Hastings be just not good enough . we be all determined to drive up standard . department official continue to work with the University of Brighton Academies Trust on that . we be commit to end its current financial model and to collaborate with school leader on future budget setting to ensure we can drive high and rise standard in every school , include in Hastings . [ Official Report , 10 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , c . 8WC . ] Correction ) Research show that money habit be instill in young people from the age of seven . what be the Government do to improve financial education in school , particularly in England , where that be not currently on the national curriculum ? we have launch our curriculum and assessment review to make sure that issue such as the one that the hon . Gentleman identifie be take into account . it be a shame that we seem to hear nothing from the opposition but negativity about the curriculum and assessment review . we be determined to make sure that all our child get a brilliant education , with high standard and strong academic outcome , as well as the kind of life skill that he be right to identify . we be all keenly aware of the significant challenge that further education college continue to face , such as difficulty around repair agreement and funding , which be not help by the opportunism from the Opposition , who be responsible for the mess those college be in in the first place . can the Minister tell we more about the step she be take to ensure that these engine for opportunity for our young people , such as Leyton sixth - form college , have the support they need to thrive ? this Government recognise the vital role that FE teacher play in equip learner with the skill they need to drive growth in our economy . we be totally committed , and we be keep our eye and our finger on it . we have provide an additional £ 300 million for further education to ensure that young people develop the skill that this country so desperately need . over the weekend , Immanuel prep in my constituency announce it be close , cite vat on school fee and other damaging labour policy . do the Secretary of State share my concern about the damage that will do to jewish child grow up in my constituency and the surround area , who will be deprive of access to a jewish education , which they richly deserve ? the Government ' s fiscal inheritance be so dire that we have to take tough , but necessary decision and take they quickly . remove vat exemption from January be the right thing to do to deliver for every child across our country . I be delighted to spend Friday afternoon with Cats Whiskers day nursery and early this year , I visit Tops day nursery , which be rank ninth in the Department ' s top 100 apprenticeship employee . what step be the Secretary of State take to increase the number and quality of childcare apprenticeship ? I pay tribute to the provider in my hon . friend ' s constituency for their work . we want to see great career right across the early year sector from apprenticeship all the way up to graduate level . I will happily meet he to discuss that far . will the Secretary of State reconfirm her commitment to academy and to the policy of academisation ? we want all school to do well for our child and to drive high and rise standard regardless of the name above the door . academisation have create fragmentation in line of accountability , leave local authority carry much risk , not least when it come to SEND provision . will my hon . friend look at academy governance structure to ensure that local authority can carry that responsibility and be able to deliver for child with SEN ? my hon . friend raise an important point . rather than obsess about structure and name over door , we be determined to ensure that every child in every community have a good school and that school work together in community with their local authority to co - operate on place planning and admission , with every child get the good education and every school have high and rise standard . at just £ 952 , the East Riding of Yorkshire have the low high need block funding of any local authority in the country . minister have commit themselves to look again at the formula so that we can have the right one . will they please commit to do everything they can to bring it in for the next financial year so that we do not have another year of grossly unfair and disproportionate distribution of funding ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that this be a complex area . it would not have be possible to make any change to the funding formula this year , but we will look in the future at what change might be require . I be sure that as part of that process he will make representation on behalf of his constituent . I talk to special educational need co - ordinator across Harlow and Essex on a regular basis , partly because my good friend be one . he tell I that a number of special educational need co - ordinator — easy for I to say — be leave the profession because of their high workload and the stress that it cause . what support will the Government give to ensure that special educational need co - ordinator get the support , include mental health support , that they need ? my hon . friend be a strong advocate for special educational need in his community . we know that senco perform a vital function in make sure that child and their family get the support they need to access the education they deserve . he be right that they deserve support as well . we need to encourage more people to be train up in and understand the need of child with special educational need so that everybody can play their part in create an inclusive education system . business report that cyber - attack be increase , as be the amount of time they have to wait to employ someone to deal with those cyber - attack . what be the Department do to fill that skill gap ? the hon . member be right that there be skill gap in cyber , digital and tech overall . that be why Skills England will drive forward our work in address those skill gap as well as in ensure that our young people have great career in the year to come . that be one area in particular where I know there be lot of opportunity for young people to enjoy a fantastic career . Itchen sixth - form college in my constituency be recently judge to be " outstanding " by Ofsted . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the college ? do she agree that future success require we to sort out financial inconsistency such as lecturer ' pay and vat liability ? my hon . friend identify a number of the challenge that we have inherit as a new government . we be work as quickly as we can to address they . we want to ensure that teacher right across the sector , whether in our school , the FE sector or college , get the support , the pay and the recognition that they deserve . in Brighton ' s non - academy sixth - form college , the current teacher strike action stem largely from the Government not provide the same funding to cover pay uplift as they do for school and academy . will the Secretary of State urgently correct that unjustified funding anomaly ? at the Budget , we set out an additional £ 300 million for further education . the hon . Lady will know that the Government be not responsible for and play no role in set or make recommendation about teacher pay in FE college . we be look closely at sixth - form college too as part of this , which again be part of the challenge that we inherit from the last Government . I welcome this Government ' s ambition to ensure that 40 , 000 extra child be school ready every year . however , at school such as West End school in Oswaldtwistle in my constituency , there be no extra classroom to make extra nursery provision available . will the Minister consider capital funding to ensure that lot of primary school have the opportunity to extend high quality nursery provision ? the Government be commit to roll out school - base nursery . I would welcome the opportunity to meet my hon . friend to discuss those issue far . I assure the Education Secretary that we be very positive about school in this country . I be sure that she will want to thank all school leader for their work to help English school to soar up the ranking for the programme for international student assessment and programme for international student assessment ranking — PISA and timms — but will she join I in send personal congratulation to Katharine Birbalsingh , whose approach to discipline , the curriculum and teacher - lead instruction make her school Michaela the good in the country ? I will always celebrate the fantastic work of our school leader and teacher , because they be how we will drive high and rise standard across our school system . the hon . Gentleman and I probably have more in common than he realise . he might recognise these word : " the great injustice in Britain today be that your life be still largely determined not by your effort and talent but by where you come from , who your parent be and what school you attend . this be wrong . " they be take from the 2017 conservative manifesto , which he be involve in writing . this government will right those wrong and break the link between background — order . it might be easy if I say it . one side say , " it ' s all their fault , " and the other say , " they ' ve be in power . " that be the answer to every question . I recently visit Heasandford primary school in my constituency , which be in a dire state . will the Minister meet I and Lancashire county council to see what we can do to repair the school — the big in Lancashire by class number — and make sure that it be fit for child ' s ambition in Burnley ? we be committed to improve the condition of the estate through the annual funding programme . I will happily meet my hon . friend to discuss those issue far . planning Committees : Reform ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State to make a statement on plan for the reform of plan committee . as the House will be aware , in our first King ' s Speech in July the Government announce their intention to introduce a planning and infrastructure Bill , design to streamline the delivery of essential housing and infrastructure across the country and support sustain economic growth . we make clear at the time that an important component of that Bill would be measure to modernise the operation of planning committee . planning committee play a vital role in provide local democratic oversight of planning decision . however , if we be to undo the damage that the previous Government do to housing supply in this country and deliver home in the place that our community need , we must ensure that they be operate as effectively as possible . as we look to develop Government policy in this area , we be determined to avoid the mistake of previous Conservative Administrations , who be rightly criticise for bring forward planning legislation without sufficient engagement or consultation . we also want to ensure that the change to the operation of plan committee that we ultimately take forward be as robust as possible , draw on feedback from those who navigate England ' s planning system on a daily basis . that be why today we have publish a work paper that set out our initial thinking for modernise planning committee . this be just the late in a series of work paper on plan reform , and it be explicitly design to kick - start engagement before we launch a formal Government consultation on a more detailed proposition . as such , I assure Members across the House that there will be plenty of opportunity to engage with and debate these matter in the month ahead . the work paper seek view on three potential change : first , a national scheme of delegation , set out which type of planning application should be determine at committee and which by expert planning officer . we believe that that would bring clarity and consistency to both applicant and community about how application be determined . secondly , the introduction of dedicated committee for strategic development would allow member of those committee to dedicate energy to the most significant project . thirdly , the introduction of mandatory planning training for committee member would enable applicant to be confident in the knowledge of those make these decision . take together , the change be design to help streamline local planning decision making , maximise the use of professional skill and judgment of train planner , and focus the time of elect councillor on the most significant or controversial application . as I say a moment ago , the work paper publish today be merely the start of our engagement with the sector on this important issue . it be not a firm set of confirm proposal , and we will use discussion in the new year to refine our approach . we will then prepare final policy proposal , on which we will launch a consultation in the usual way . let I finish by make it clear that the proposal that we be test through the publication of this work paper be merely one part of a much wide set of reform to the ail planning system that we inherit from the previous Government . I look forward to update hon . member as we proceed to deliver on other aspect of the Government ' s ambitious housing and planning agenda . many of we be surprised to hear the Secretary of State tell we over the weekend that there be enough home in this country . the planning system be an area of interest to all member and to our constituent ; I know it be to you in particular , Mr Speaker , and to your constituency . planning matter , because it impact the look and feel of our community . it have be the subject of numerous parliamentary question , both at the Dispatch Box and in writing . in response to all those question , we have be tell to await the national planning policy framework . it therefore seem a discourtesy to we to hear so much about the propose reform to the planning system in a series of medium interview over the weekend . some question emerge from this . it be clear from the Department ' s figure that 96 % of planning application be decide on by officer use delegate power . that be up from 75 % in 2000 . it be that 4 % to which the local democratic voice be so relevant . on the planning reform working paper , first , what assessment have be make of the impact on local democracy — for example , on the ability of ward councillor to call in a controversial application , or on case in which reserved matter be approve , but then there be a breach by the developer , so the application need to come back before a committee for further consideration and enforcement ? give that 89 % of major application be decide within either 13 week or the agree deadline , will the full council still be able to call in major strategic application that will have a significant impact on their area ? already , 87 % of application be grant by local authority ; will neighbourhood plan retain the legal status that enable the community that write they to have a say on what go on in their area ? give that 83 % of minor application be already agree within timescale , who in the local authority will decide whether a matter be to be refer to a committee ? give the huge increase in housing planning permission grant under the previous Government , when do the Government intend to start work on get developer develop and builder build , rather than tinker with a democratic system that have already deliver more than 1 million home with consent in England ? I have to say , it be quite rich hear the hon . Gentleman crow about plan permission in the system . we be experience the low number of planning permission and completion for a decade , as a result of the Conservatives ' change to the national planning policy framework , make in December 2023 , which torpedo supply and hit growth across this country . the hon . Gentleman also ask about the NPPF . we fully intend to bring forward a revise NPPF before the end of the year . these change do not relate to the NPPF , as I make clear in my initial response . we be consult , in an initial sense , on the change before bring forward formal proposal for consultation alongside the planning and infrastructure Bill — another part of the Government ' s reform agenda . the hon . Gentleman rightly make it clear that 96 % of decision be already make by planning officer . the other 4 % of decision , though , be incredibly important ; they represent a substantial portion of total unit in the planning process , because many major application go to a planning committee for consideration . while we know that there be good practice out there , the number and type of application that committee consider still vary widely between local planning authority . some committee decision be not make in accordance with material planning consideration , and some committee repeatedly revisit or relitigate development that have already be consider by elect member through the local plan process . we need to streamline the local planning system in order to provide the home and place that we need , and to empower train planning professional to get the good use out of the system . the hon . Gentleman also ask about neighbourhood plan . I have be very clear on several occasion in the House that the protection for neighbourhood plan in the NPPF will remain . as well as firm proposal on this proposition around modernise planning committee , we will bring forward further detail about change to the national planning policy framework in due course . my hon . friend will know that I be passionately commit to local council and local democracy , but do he understand the frustration that many of we feel when a planning authority democratically approve a local plan after consult the community , but then , when an application be make to build home , the same councillor turn down the application , despite it be consistent with the local plan ? be the Minister ' s main objective to try to remove that sort of decision making , which hold up the whole process , and to ensure , in consultation with the Local Government Association and other in local government , that we can find a well way forward , so that we can get the permission to build the home that the country badly need ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . he have huge expertise in this area from his time as Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , and he be absolutely right . we have be clear that the good way for local community to shape the decision about what to build , where , be through local plan . it be appal that we have inherit a situation in which less than a third of place be cover by up - to - date local plan . we need to boost that , and — [ interruption . ] if the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) will allow I , what we be look at , in the change that we be consult on , in a soft form , through the work paper , be how we can ensure that plan committee make decision on the most significant and controversial application , include those that be not in line with local plan , rather than spend their time pore over decision that have be make in an allocation framework through the local plan process . hon . member will see in the work paper that one of our proposal , for a national scheme for delegation , would require all application that be in accordance with the development plan to be determine by officer . that will free up committee to focus on controversial development that be out of step with the local plan that elect member and officer put forward after consultation with their community . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as there be 8 . 5 million people in England with unmet housing need , the liberal Democrats welcome the plan for further house building . for we , the priority have to be the delivery of social home . we need 150 , 000 annually , and we need housing that local people can genuinely afford . on the topic of social housing , I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . let we be clear : when Whitehall take planning decision out of the hand of local councillor , it be take decision out of the hand of local people . that be undemocratic , and we would reverse that . instead , Government should unblock the thousand of permit home that be not be build — for example , through " use it or lose it " permission , by have more than just one extra planning officer per local authority , and by allow council to set their fee and to ringfence that income for planning department . will the Minister allow council to set their application fee , and ensure that that funding be ringfence for plan department ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that set of question , and I be glad that he personally welcome housing . when it come to his party , on this issue , as on so many other , the view you get depend on what part of the country you be in . we be absolutely committed to increase the delivery of social and affordable home . we have take decisive early step to bring that forward , include by secure an additional £ 500 million in the Budget for the affordable home programme . until the Liberal Democrats set out how they will pay for 150 , 000 social rent home a year , I find the hon . Gentleman ' s ambition in that area a little lack in credibility . we be take step to get serious on build out — that be part of our planning agenda — but on these change , we think it be right that plan committee should operate as effectively as possible in exercise democratic oversight , not revisit or relitigate the same decision , and focus on application that require planning committee member input . he be absolutely right that we need more planning capacity in the system . that be why we be make change through the NPPF to support that , and why at the Budget the Chancellor announce a £ 46 million package of investment to support capacity and capability in local planning authority . when I be leader of Manchester city council , I spend a large percentage of my time try to right the wrong of Labour and conservative Governments in the ' 60 and ' 70 who have make a similar dash to build many , many house . I spend my time find way to fund the demolition of deck - access housing . as a result , I become convinced that the solution to every problem be not more power to the centre . the people in Chorley know what be good for Chorley , Mr Speaker , just as the people in Manchester know what be good for Manchester . will my hon . friend assure I that he will look at the mistake that be make in the ' 60 and ' 70 in the dash for building , and ensure that we do not have really bad decision make from the centre , or the exclusion of local council ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . he be right about some of the bad decision that be make in the past . I be a keen student of history and be well aware of some of they , and we definitely take they into account when make our own decision . on what he say about seize power from the centre , this be absolutely nothing of the sort . we be propose a national scheme of delegation to provide consistency in how council make these important decision . that involve a national scheme of delegation , which balance vital local democratic oversight with ensure that plan committee operate as effectively as possible . in instance where local councillor be not make the decision and application can be deal with by train local planning officer — not by I , or by official in Whitehall — we think that be the right thing to do , in order to streamline the delivery of essential housing in part of the country that be cry out for those home . I call the Father of the House . there be nothing more controversial than government seek to bypass local democracy . I see that with the desire of the last government to bypass local democracy by impose a special development order on RAF Scampton , and I see it now with the many application to build solar farm that be ostensibly national infrastructure project . the present planning system be largely create by the Labour Government , and have stand the test of time . can the Minister assure I that whatever he decide finally , we will not degrade local democracy ? it be essential that people join a council , and join a planning committee , know that they have real power and be not under the cosh of Government , or plan impose by Government . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . we have to take step to fix the ail planning system that we have inherit . it be fail on a number of front , and trust and confidence in it be at a record low . as for the assertion that we have hear , for all the hyperbole from Conservative Members , we be not seize power from the centre . we be say to local community , " put an up - to - date local plan in place , and when site be allocate through that local plan , you can be confident that they will be build out in the manner that you have specify . it be through local plan that you get your control . " however , when it come to the decision on specific site , let we ensure , if we can , that elect member be direct towards the most significant and controversial application , as oppose to some of the minor application that involve technical reserved matter question . I have sit on a planning committee ; I do not know whether the right hon . Gentleman have . in the case of those application , the initial decision can be re - litigate and revisit , rather than the technical issue be put to we . let we ensure that those decision sit in the hand of train planning professional , and get planning committee member time focus on the application that deserve it . it be good to see the Government ' s recommitment to the importance of local plan . in July this year , Milton Keynes city council go through the important process of develop a local plan . during the election campaign , the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , visit my home town and describe the development of a local plan as " reckless " . will the Minister reassure we that this government do not believe that local plan be reckless , but consider they necessary for the sustainable delivery of the home that the country need ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and I absolutely agree with he . we have a local - plan - lead planning system , in which few than a third of area have an up - to - date local plan , and that be unsustainable . we be absolutely determined to drive towards universal local plan coverage . the measure on which we be consult — and I emphasise that this be a work paper ; we be seek view , and hon . member be more than welcome to submit theirs as we refine our proposal — will reinforce and support the plan - lead system by ensure that officer and member time be focus on the application where that be most need . community can have confidence that once they have an up - to - date local plan , it can be decide what to build , and where , in accordance with the wish of local community and the wide national planning policy framework . as the Housing and Planning Minister will be aware , both Dacorum borough council and Three Rivers district council in my constituency be Lib Dem - control ; Three Rivers have be for over 20 year . both council do not have an up - to - date local plan . can the Minister advise the House about what would happen if the Government impose a local plan on an authority ? would those decision be delegate to officer ? if so , the process would have no democratic mandate at all . we have not outline any proposal in the work paper that relate to call - in or the takeover of local plan from the centre . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right , though , that Ministers already have power to take over a local plan in extremis ; they have not be use before . we be more than willing to use all the power at our disposal to ensure that we have up - to - date local plan coverage . if there be local authority out there — I say this very candidly and openly to the House — that resist the change that we be try to make and take no step towards put an up - to - date local plan in place , we will consider use all the power at our disposal . it be through local plan that we will drive sustainable housing supply in the year to come . I welcome the mandatory training . as a former chair of a planning committee , I know that training be part of the process that we implement , so it be good to see that it will be deliver across the board . we approve some development multiple time on the same site , such as a maternity block in my constituency , which be then flip and sell on to another developer . could the Minister please tell we what step be be take to account for land banking or flip site via developer ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that there be good example of training across the country . hon . member seem to indicate early that they think that mandatory training for councillor be in place . it be not in place . we know there be good example out there , but provision be inconsistent , and we think that we need to take forward mandatory training to ensure that all councillor have the necessary knowledge to make the good decision on individual application . on my hon . friend ' s point about trading of land , she be absolutely right . there be far too much speculative development in this country . we have a dysfunctional land market . again , I come back to the importance of up - to - date local plan . it be through up - to - date local plan that community have the ability to shape development in their area in the good possible way in accordance with their wish . on build - out more generally , we be consider what option might be available to we to ensure that the build - out of consent site go forward , alongside our new home accelerator , which be announce a few month back . until September this year , I be a proud elect member of Stockport council . I make decision on planning , because in Stockport we decide at ward level what be appropriate for each ward . if I understand the Government ' s suggestion correctly , the power to decide for ourselves have be take away from Stockport council . could the Minister confirm my understanding ? I be afraid to say that the hon . Lady ' s understanding be not correct . I encourage she to read the working paper . it be a work paper , and we be seek initial view on a national scheme of delegation . there be three option in the work paper . I look forward to she submit her view in full , and I will happily consider they . I welcome the Government ' s new ambition on home and note that the stated aim be to ensure that " skilled planning officer in local authority be give the appropriate amount of trust and empowerment . " unfortunately , that be not the case in Middlesbrough , because the last Tory Government hand over power to the unwanted Middlesbrough Development Corporation , which totally undermine the council ' s planning department and instead use a private planning consultancy , at a significantly high cost to the public purse and with a considerable loss of democratic authority . what assurance can the Minister give I that Middlesbrough will get the trust , the empowerment and , indeed , the affordable housing that it need , and that local democratic legitimacy will be restore ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of local empowerment and of local community shape development in their area — most importantly , as I have make clear in answer to several question , through up - to - date local plan . my hon . friend will forgive I if I do not comment on the specific of the development corporation in his area , but on plan officer more generally , the Government want to make sure — this be what we be test through the proposal in the work paper — that skilled planning officer in local authority have the right level of trust and empowerment to resolve select application more quickly in the service of resident and business . we also want to ensure that planning professional be fully support in their role , and that their experience and skill be put to good use , which will allow member to focus on the most significant and most controversial application , include those out of line with up - to - date local plan . there be a remarkable number of contradiction . the Minister say that he want more democratic oversight while remove the democratic local voice of councillor . he say he be be decisive while also say he have exist power that he have not use and that this be not a firm set of proposal . he be not propose anything around tech and improvement , while the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster be give a big speech this week on exactly that , as the centrepiece of Government change . why do the Minister think that the way to bring clarity to the transport system and local plan be to tell people to engage with the local plan , then at the same time tell they that if they do so , the people most engage with that , the democratically elect councillor , will be ignore if they then follow that local plan ? I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that , for a start , he have clearly not read the work paper . his question be a mess of contradiction . what we be clearly say to local community be , " get an up - to - date local plan in place ; you can then have confidence that that local plan will be deliver ; you can have confidence that application in line with that local plan will be deliver ; and you can have confidence that elect planning member will be focus on the most significant and the most controversial application , and that local planning officer in those authority can ensure that other application that need not go before member be determine in accordance with the local plan as well as the national planning policy framework . we have have trouble with house building because the speed with which house be build have be dictate by developer . what we need to see , when planning permission be grant , be that the developer must either use it or lose it . we can not allow those company to continue to land bank and use their land only when they be confident that house price be continue to rise . do my hon . friend intend to deal with those aspect of the housing market ? on many site across the country there be genuine reason , include those of viability , why site be not build out . it be not as simple as say that every consent site that be not be build out be be sit on deliberately by developer , but we know that land be trade speculatively . I want to reassure my hon . friend and constituency neighbour that , as I have make clear in answer to previous question , there be exist power that we can consider bring into force , and there be measure that we take forward in the consultation on the national planning policy framework that we think will help build - out , particularly on proposal around mixed - use site , but there be potentially more that we can do in this area and we be keep the matter under close review . speak as — until recently — the leader of a district council and a long - term member of our planning committee , I do not recognise the issue that the Minister be cite . a lot of the thing he say relate to the absence of a local plan . I fully agree with that . my council have just put in place a new local plan , which be hopefully be approve right now . a well way to get more affordable housing would be to look at the way local authority can finance the building of those house and fix that . it would be well to allow local authority to charge appropriate amount to cover the cost of the planning , so that they can get the necessary planning officer , and far well to look at how many council already do mandatory training . I hear from Liberal Democrat colleague that they all have to do mandatory training , as I do in my council , so that be in place . I would like to see a list of how many council do not do that . we also need to make water company statutory consultee so that we do not hit flooding problem . those change will help . the problem be not in the planning process . More than 1 million application have be allow but not build — Order . I think we could have build a whole estate by now . indeed , Mr Speaker , and I get a strong sense that an Adjournment debate application will be come your way on several of those issue . let I address a number of they . the hon . Gentleman say that training be in place in most part of the country , in which case local authority should have no problem with mandatory training be request by the centre , and only a small number of authority — if it be a small number — would have to put such training in place . the hon . Gentleman make point on capacity and planning fee . I hope he will have see in the recent consultation on propose reform to the national planning policy framework that the Government set out propose change to planning application fee and also seek view on the localisation of such fee . in response to the hon . Gentleman ' s specific question , I would encourage he to read the work paper . Most plan committee make well consider and fair decision most of the time , but we know that there be practice out there of planning committee make decision that be not in accordance with material planning consideration , repeatedly revisit and re - litigate the planning answer . we have to look at how we can streamline that process , and I encourage he to engage with that work . so much of the success of a local plan seem to hinge on co - production with local community . will the Minister describe effective model of that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . one of the problem we have in our planning system be that not enough people engage with application or , in particular , with the local plan process . we need to ensure that more people be engage upstream in the production of local plan because , as I say , they be the good way to shape development in a particular local community . there be a number of thing we can do , not least through some of the innovation come forward as a result of the previous Government ' s Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , which have a huge amount of potential in term of digital planning and how it can allow community to see spatially the type of development that might come forward in their area . this work paper smack of have be think up after a request for option to streamline the planning process . what be the evidence that what plan committee decide be the fundamental obstacle in the planning system ? there be no evidence to suggest that these decision be the problem . the problem be far wide . the reason why the Government will not succeed in build 1 . 5 million home in England and Wales between now and the general election be a far big problem . will the Government produce a comprehensive assessment of all the thing that delay house building in this country ? we would then see how significant , or insignificant , this figure be . the hon . Gentleman give the impression that I stand up today and say , " this be our solution to all the flaw of the planning system in England . " this be one small part of a much wide planning reform agenda . he will know that , in our first month in office , we bring forward very significant change to the national planning policy framework . we be committed to introduce a planning and infrastructure Bill early next year . this work paper be one small part of a large agenda , but it be an important part , because we know that planning application be take far too long in particular . we need to streamline the process to ensure that we get the home and place come forward that our community need . unlike other colleague , I have never be on a planning committee . however , I know the effect of the current system and its failing . I know that only 19 % of major decision be make within the 13 - week statutory framework , and I know that we have an absolute housing crisis in this country . I know the impact of the delay , prevarication and rampant nimbyism we see over the past 14 year . do the Minister agree that it be finally time to grasp these issue head - on ? in a word , yes . in some way , I feel quite envious of my hon . friend have not sit on a planning committee . it be an experience that I think everyone in the House should undergo at one point in their career . my hon . friend be absolutely right . these proposal be to test some of the measure that we be consider bring forward in the planning and infrastructure Bill , the objective of which be to encourage well quality development that be align with local development plan , to facilitate the speedy delivery of the quality home and place that our community need , and to give applicant the certainty they need that their application will be determine in a timely manner . in advance of these proposal , have the Minister make any assessment of the number of senior local authority planning officer who move on to work directly for , or as private planning consultant to , large developer ? will he consider something I would like to see do anyway , which be register of interest , gift and hospitality , and bring senior planner under the wing of the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments , or a similar independent body , so that we can have the transparency we really need ? I thank the hon . Lady for her suggestion . proposal in that area be not consider as part of this work paper , but she be more than welcome to submit her view in detail on that point . Crewe FC , a fantastic community football club in my constituency , have plan for over £ 1 million of investment in grassroots football facility , but that be at risk because of delay in the Cheshire East planning department . do the Minister agree that the Government ' s drive to reform planning should ensure speedy decision making , in order to deliver the crucial facility that our community need ? as I say in response to a previous question , part of the objective of the proposal set out in the work paper be to test whether they will facilitate the speedy delivery of home and place that our community need . my hon . friend be right that speed be part of the challenge , but there be also a big challenge around the capacity and capability of local planning department . we consult on change to application fee and localisation of such fee in the recent consultation on the NPPF . the Department have a dedicated planning capacity and capability programme that direct support at local authority , but we hope the £ 46 million package of investment secure in the Budget will go some way to support local planning authority with the help they need on capacity and capability . that be a hugely important part of the system , and we need to support those who want to do the right thing . in an exchange a few moment ago , the Minister seem to agree that this measure be design to fight nimbyism . I understand what nimbyism mean when it relate to an individual objector or a group of objector , but when it relate to the member of a planning committee , that suggest that the Minister regard an elect body of specialist councillor as people who be say " not in my back yard " , when in fact they be consider the welfare of their community . would he like to think about that point again ? in general term , I find the yimby versus nimby debate incredibly reductive ; it do not get to heart of some of the challenge that we face with our planning system . we be not accuse elect councillor across the country of act in a knee - jerk , nimby way . we be say to they that there be a way to streamline the process , where we can focus their time and energy on those application that be significant or controversial , and allow train planning officer to make decision in other area , in accordance with up - to - date local plan , which be the good way that community have to shape development in their area . we be in a housing crisis . last year , the number of planning permission grant be the low in a decade . what work be the Minister undertaking to turn the page on the failure of the last government , so that we can build the social housing that be desperately need in place such as Portsmouth , where viability and cost pose difficulty and barrier ? will he meet I to discuss the Portsmouth local plan ? the evidence speak for itself . partly as a result of the change that the previous Government make to the national planning policy framework in December 2023 , housing supply in this country have nose - dive . permission and completion be at their low in a decade — that be not true . it be true . the Office for Budget Responsibility be project that supply will dip below 200 , 000 home this year , and the affordable home programme be on course to deliver between 110 , 000 and 130 , 000 affordable home , not the original 180 , 000 that be allot to it . we be take step to increase the supply of social and affordable home , include use the £ 500 million in additional funding secure for the affordable home programme in the recent Budget . labour - lead Basildon borough council ' s new draft plan be at the regulation 18 stage , but it propose a completely unsustainable 27 , 000 new property across the borough , include 4 , 300 in Wickford , in my constituency , which be completely unsustainable and would involve concrete over whole swathe of our local green belt . as well as reimpose mandatory housing target , which be an insult to local democracy , why be Labour now try to neuter local planning committee of democratically elect councillor , take away the say of local people , when it be desperately difficult to persuade people to vote in local election as it be ? Mr Speaker , you will forgive I if I do not comment on the specific of the local planning question , due to the quasi - judicial nature of the role of the Secretary of State in planning application . we set out transitional arrangement in the NPPF consultation in July for how local plan at regulation 18 and 19 stage will proceed through the system , to ensure that we get up - to - date local plan through where appropriate and meet housing need in term of the revise standard method that we have put forward . we be determined to get these home build . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) say that those level of housing be unsustainable . it will be for the Planning Inspectorate to decide whether the local plan be sound , but I do not take issue in any way with the ambition that the local authority be show . we have an acute and entrenched housing crisis in this country . every week in my advice surgery — I be sure that his be the same — people come to I who be desperately in need of house . the 1 million home that the previous Government build in the last Parliament be not enough . we will build 1 . 5 million home over the next five year . two weekend ago , while knock on door , I meet a mother who live with her two adult child . both those child have professional job and earn decent salary , yet can not afford their own home , so they be stick live back in the family home while they save up the money that they need . the housing crisis that the Government inherit have end the dream of home ownership for too many young people . will the Minister set out what more we can do to ensure that the dream of home ownership be open to everyone in my constituency ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as I say , we inherit an acute and entrenched housing crisis , with 1 . 3 million people languish on social housing waiting list and a generation lock out of home ownership . to their shame , the Conservative Government pass on a situation where 150 , 000 homeless child be in temporary accommodation as we speak . we have to build the home that our people need , and we be determined to do so . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on flooding and flooded community , and the MP for a constituency that suffer from surface water flooding as well as river flooding , I be concerned that the proposal will divert decision make away from those with the great local knowledge . when a flooding area be drain , the water have to go somewhere else , and where it go be critical to the people live in the surround area . can the Minister reassure I that the proposal will not dilute the importance of local knowledge in make critical decision about drain and flooding when we build ? I can reassure the hon . Lady on that point . the proposal will operate within the context of a national planning policy framework that have very clear requirement in relation to flooding . we be in no way remove local expertise and knowledge from the system ; either experienced and train local planning officer or locally elect authority member should make the decision , but we have to ensure that they be make the right one , and that their energy be focus in the right way , to streamline the decision that we need . we hear the statistic on how planning application be not progress through the system at a timely pace . we need to turn thing around . I associate myself with the comment of my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) , on ensure that the planning authority for Middlesbrough sit within Middlesbrough . young family in Teesside be desperate to get on the housing ladder , yet last year the number of new home give planning permission fall to a 10 - year low . can the Minister reassure the House of the step that he will take to ensure that home be build and that we get Britain build again ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : permission have fall sharply , in part because of change that the previous Government make to the national planning policy framework , which give local authority myriad excuse to bring forward plan that be below their nominal target , although it remain in place . we have get to oversupply permission into the system , which be precisely why the propose change in our consultation on the NPPF would make 370 , 000 the standard method total envelope . that be how we will build 1 . 5 million home over the next five year . the Deputy Prime Minister say that this country have plenty of house . if that be true , can the Minister explain why the Government be impose an 82 % increase in the housing target for Bromsgrove district ? as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , we consult on a revise standard method that we think meet the scale of the ambition require to build the home that our people need across the country . we realise that it will put pressure on those area that need to increase their target . we have put forward proposal on how support will be put in place , but that be the level of ambition that we need to meet an acute and entrenched housing crisis , the consequence of which I have set out . the Deputy Prime Minister be at pain to say this weekend that nature recovery could happen hand in hand with the ambitious planning target she set . the Environmental Audit Committee be look at the matter . our opening inquiry be into the environmental impact of the plan be set out by the Minister . will the training of planning committee member cover matter such as renewable energy , floodplain and renewable transport to ensure that new planning application do not negatively impact the environment ? on mandatory training , we be consider a wide range of implementation option . we be keen to work with all stakeholder . I encourage my hon . friend in his capacity as Committee Chair to put his view into the consultation — we want to determine the good way forward . on nature more generally , we be clear that there be a win - win to be have . the status quo be not work . nature recovery be not proceed in the strategic way that be possible . development be not come forward ; it be be hold up and deter . if there be a win - win that do not involve a reduction in environmental protection , we want to bring it forward , and that be what we be look to do in the planning and infrastructure Bill next year . the reform represent a loss of control when local community such as mine in the lake and the dale be desperate for more control . with over 90 % of the home in some of our village be second home , we be cry out for the Minister to bring in a change of use for planning for second home so that we can limit the number in those community . will he look at do that in the come day ? I refute entirely the hon . Gentleman ' s claim that the change represent a loss of control . I encourage he to read the paper , which be about ensure that decision be take by the right local , experienced — professional or elect — member as be appropriate . he and I have have this conversation about second home many time before . he know that we be look and be interested in what additional power we can give local community to bear down on the negative impact of excessive concentration of short - term let and second home . we want to give local community more power to tackle some of those problem , not less . the proposal in the work paper be in line with that general sentiment . I thank the Minister for his work on this and other area to boost growth across the country for family in my constituency and elsewhere . I note that this weekend the Leader of the opposition meet her canadian conservative counterpart — a Conservative who have embrace planning reform and pro - growth measure and who be gain rapidly in the poll , as far as I can see . do he agree that it be interesting to see Conservative Members take an entirely different approach , oppose sensible change that would support growth in this country and stick with chaos in the planning system , rather than stability , which be the foundation for economic growth ? my hon . friend be right . these be sensible , proportionate change to streamline the delivery of housing across the country — housing that we desperately need . if the Conservatives want to put their head in the sand and resist reform in this area , all they will be do be dig their long - term electoral grave . the people of this country want good home and good neighbourhood to live in . that be what we be determined to bring forward . the Minister speak of mandatory training for councillor , but it have be try before . it sound like an effort by central Government to make councillor think more like planning officer , rather than be representative of their local community . those of we who have serve on local authority know full well that there be frequently recommendation from officer to approve major scheme , which , in the wide context — infrastructure , school , GPs and so on — plan committee have refuse . can the Minister assure we that they would still have discretion to turn down application , even if the recommendation from officer be to approve they ? I encourage the hon . gentleman to engage with the proposal set out in the work paper . nothing be definite , nothing be finite ; these be our initial view , which we want to test , and I welcome his contribution to that . we be say in particular that , yes , elect member should be take decision on the most significant and controversial application , but for minor reserve matter and technical issue on which skilled local planning officer can come forward and make decision , that be helpful and appropriate to streamline the planning system locally . resident in town and village across my constituency want an efficient and accountable planning system . could the Minister set out in more detail how he see these plan interact with process around master planning and the negotiation of planning condition ? I encourage my hon . friend to read the working paper . he be welcome to submit his view on the potential interaction of these proposal with master planning and planning condition . we have not set out specific proposal for those area in the work paper , but I be more than happy to take his view into account . I be never brave enough to serve on a planning committee during my 10 year as a local councillor — there be just not enough hour in the day . there be a range of view on this . I have some sympathy with the notion that we need to speed up the delivery of new home — we have a housing crisis , and it be important that we do that — but do the Minister accept that , with the streamlining he be talk about , one new planning authority simply will not cut it ? the 300 planning officer that we be work to bring through the system with apprenticeship and training be just one part of the solution to address the real capacity and capability constraint that local planning department face . I have already outline , as I hope the hon . Gentleman hear , the £ 46 million of investment allocate in the Budget to help local authority with planning capacity and capability . as I say , we have also consult on proposal for the potential localisation of fee . the 300 planner be one element of how we want to support local planning authority to get capacity in the system , so that they can make decision at pace and in a timely manner . I be pleased that the Government be consult on the creation of small target planning committee specifically for strategic development . Ebbsfleet Garden City in my constituency show the value of strategic development . the new settlement be expect to grow from 5 , 000 to 15 , 000 home over the next decade . notwithstanding key challenge — include the need for well access to decent bus service and , in my view , for the Elizabeth line to be extend to Ebbsfleet — the way that the community be be develop show the importance of plan for place rather than for individual development . will the Minister consider join I on a visit to see how the Government could , for their plan for a generation of new town , learn from Ebbsfleet ' s lesson ? I think I be owe a visit to Ebbsfleet at some point , so I will happily take that up with my hon . friend outside the Chamber . I be glad that he mention strategic planning committee — one of the change that we have put forward in the work paper and would like view on . we think that they should cover , in theory , large - scale allocate regeneration or industrial site , include urban extension or opportunity area — large site in local community that could benefit from a more streamlined process . a small group of elect councillor with the expertise and knowledge about a specific site could make decision about it , rather than all such proposal be take to wide planning committee . be it not the case that the Government have realise that the mandatory top - down target they come up with be now unachievable , and that , in their panic , they have come up with a policy that will undermine local democratic voice and take people away from , not close to , the democratic process ? I do not know what the hon . Gentleman ' s definition of " panic " be , but these be proposal that we set out in the King ' s Speech and say we would bring forward — that be in July . I be not sure how that constitute panic , but he might give I a lesson in that . some 47 % of all the casework my office process last week be regard housing , or lack thereof . we absolutely must build 1 . 5 million new home in this country if we be to solve the housing crisis and restore the dream of home ownership . I have certainly know councillor to oppose housing development because they worry that the necessary infrastructure — the school , road , GP appointment and so on — will not come with it . what reassurance can my hon . friend give that , either as part of these small reform around committee or as part of the broad reform we be bring in , we will absolutely make sure that we build the necessary infrastructure alongside the necessary house ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . to return to an early question , there be a small number of people out there who be out - and - out nimbys — as we might put it — who will resist development of any kind in their area . there be a much wide group of people in our community across the country who want to see well , infrastructure - lead development . that be something we be take forward , not least through change consult on in the NPPF , but we know there be more work to do in this area . I would be more than happy to speak to my hon . friend about what more we can do . it be not local planning authority that stop house building , but land supply and land banking , as we have already hear this afternoon . in Bath and north - east Somerset alone , something like 2 , 000 home have receive planning permission but have not be build yet . should the Government not concentrate on land banking rather than threaten to destroy a vital part of local democracy , and why be land bank not part of the Minister ' s consultation paper ? it be not either / or . we have to have more permission go into the system and more timely planning decision make in accordance with material planning consideration and in a consistent way , not relitigate or revisit decision that have be make in outline . however , we also absolutely have to take action on land supply and build - out , and I have make clear in answer to previous question that we be give the matter far thought . my constituent often complain about the amount of time it take for a plan to go from paper to the end product . in fact , it be a conversation I often have with my good hon . friend , the hon . member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) . [ hon . member : " Aww ! " ] I need some brownie point back . can you tell I — [ interruption . ] can the Minister tell I how these plan can speed up that process for my constituent in Harlow ? it be progress , Madam Deputy Speaker . we do need to speed up the process of local plan development . in a way that the previous Government never do , we be go to adhere to the timeline we be set for local plan development — for new - style local plan to come forward — and we need to ensure that individual planning application be make in a timely manner , within the set timeline , to give certainty to the sector that what they bring forward can be build out if they put an application in . may I say gently to the Minister that he have be pass a bit of a dud here ? I think that experience Labour Members know that , which be why not a single long - stand Member on the Minister ' s Benches have stand up to defend this specific policy this afternoon . be that because Labour Members , like most mp , know that the local planning committee they have be involve in and see make important decision on a regular basis ? they can not be replace by plan officer , because those officer be not embed in local community . do the Minister really think that planning officer can replace local councillor on important matter such as this ? I say to the hon . Gentleman that 96 % of planning application decision be already make by planning officer . what we be say be that there be a way to streamline the system that we want to test view on , which will ensure that the most significant and controversial application still come to elect member , but that we get the full use out of train planning officer , who be embed in their local community and be cognisant of what a local plan require . I , too , be happy to speak with my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) concern my planning issue , but I be hope that the Minister can answer the question too . tory - lead Tonbridge and Malling borough council have allow predatory development in Burham , Eccles and Wouldham , precisely because it have not deliver a local plan over many year . do the Minister agree that we need firm timetable for the delivery of local plan that be robust and listen to local concern , but also that training should be put in place for appeal so that taxpayer in those local area be not burden with fine ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . at the moment , the system incentivise allow speculative development to come forward and go to the Planning Inspectorate on appeal , because then the local authority or local council member be not responsible for the decision . we have to ensure that we have well , up - to - date local plan coverage , which be the good way to shape development in the area . Less speculative development on unallocated site will therefore come forward , with more allocate and plan development through the local plan system , but with streamlined and timely decision . that be what we be aim for , and this work paper be but a small aspect of that wide agenda we be take forward . some 57 % of East Devon be make up of national landscape , previously know as area of outstanding natural beauty . I welcome the fact that these area be protect from housing and industrial development , but for plan committee that have to meet the Minister ' s target , national landscape compress the area that remain , which can be devastating for flood - prone village such as Feniton . how be these reform go to help people who be see housing target concentrate on their village because they live near a national landscape ? I hope the hon . Gentleman be aware that in those area — he highlight very real problem about the unavailability of datum to shape local target across area where there be such protect place — the Planning Inspectorate will test whether a local plan be sound , and will make a judgment about whether such hard constraint make a difference to the allocation the local area need to bring forward . I be more than happy to have a conversation with the hon . Gentleman about the specific of development in his area if he would find that helpful . I thank the Minister very much for his answer . he have put forward some very positive idea to advance housing development , and that must not be ignore by anybody in this House . have he have the opportunity to have any discussion with the devolved administration , bear in mind the UK - wide need for reform of planning , no matter where it be , to allow for affordable housing , business premise , expansion and , vitally , the need to increase and attract manufacturing production capability for our economic growth and community standard , and to restore confidence for home ownership ? can I say that I always welcome a question from the hon . member , not least because it signal the end of an urgent question ? I would say to the hon . member that my ministerial colleague in the Department and I regularly meet our counterpart from the devolved authority to learn lesson about what be different , but also about what be similar and about some of the challenge we face in a share way across this United Kingdom . Syria with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on Syria . over less than a fortnight there have be an extraordinary change . what begin as an opposition offensive in north - western Syria quickly become a headlong retreat by pro - assad force and , over the weekend , the fall of his murderous regime . on 30 November , the regime withdraw from Aleppo ; on 5 December , Hama ; on 6 December , Daraa and Homs ; and on 7 December , Damascus . as this government come into office , some in the international community and some in this House ask whether we would re - engage with Assad . his russian and iranian ally have long champion he , last year he return to the Arab League , and increasingly other government be also start to step up their presence in Damascus . this government choose not to re - engage . we say no because Assad be a monster . we say no because Assad be a dictator whose sole interest be his wealth and his power . we say no because Assad be a criminal who defy all law and norm to use chemical weapon against the syrian people . we say no because Assad be a butcher with the blood of countless innocent on his hand . we say no because Assad be a drug dealer , fund his regime through Captagon and illicit finance , and we say no because he be never ever go to change . there be those who use to call Assad " the lion of Damascus . " now we see the reality : Assad be the rat of Damascus , flee to Moscow with his tail between his leg . how fitting he should end up there . we see street of Syrians cheer his demise , tear down his statute and re - unite with love one who have be disappear . we have long hope to see he go and welcome the opportunity this bring for the people of Syria . Assad ' s demise be not just a humiliation for he and his henchman ; it be a humiliation for Russia and Iran . Iran ' s so - call axis of resistance be crumble before our eye and all Vladimir Putin have get from his attempt to prop up Assad for more than a decade be a fallen dictator file for asylum in Moscow . he say he want to return Russia to its imperial glory , but after more than 1 , 000 day he have not subjugate Ukraine . Putin ' s fake empire stop short just a few mile outside Donetsk . I have no fear of it , only disgust . of course , our revulsion at Assad , his henchman and those who prop he up must not blind we to the risk of this moment . Assad ' s demise bring no guarantee of peace . this be a moment of danger as well as opportunity for Syrians and for the region . the humanitarian situation in Syria be dire , with almost 17 million people in need . million be refugee still , largely in neighbouring T ü rkiye , Lebanon and Jordan . see so many start to return to Syria be a positive sign of their hope for a well future now that Assad be go , but a lot depend on what happen now . this flow into Syria could quickly become a flow back out , which would potentially increase the number use dangerous , illegal migration route to continental Europe and the United Kingdom . Syria have prove to be a hotbed of extremism . the House will know that the group whose offensive first push back the regime , Hayat Tahrir al - Sham — or HTS , as it be now be call — be a proscribe terrorist organisation in the UK as an alias of al - Qaeda . that should rightly make we cautious . thus far , HTS have offer reassurance to minority in Aleppo , Hama and Damascus . they have also commit to co - operate with the international community over monitor chemical weapon . we will judge HTS by their action , monitor closely how they and other party to this conflict treat all civilian in area they control . the UK and our ally have spend over a decade combat terrorism in Syria . Daesh remain one of the most significant terrorist threat to the UK , our ally and our interest overseas . we take seriously our duty as a Government to protect the public from this and other terrorist threat . amid this uncertainty , the Government have three priority , first and foremost of which be protect all civilian , include , of course , minority . for more than a decade , Syria have be rack by terrible sectarian violence . we continue to do what we can to provide humanitarian support wherever we can . the UK have spend over £ 4 billion on the syrian crisis to date . UK - fund mobile medical unit already provide emergency service across northern Syria . last week , we give a furth £ 300 , 000 to the White Helmets and today the Prime Minister have announce an additional £ 11 million of humanitarian support for Syrians . the second priority be secure an inclusive , negotiate political settlement , as I discuss with the UN special envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen , yesterday . this be how the syrian people can begin to chart a path to a united and peaceful Syria . the final priority be prevent escalation into the wide region . for more than a year , the middle east have be in the grip of a series of interlock conflict , which threaten to become an even more catastrophic war ; and in Syria itself , Russia and Iran have keep Assad ' s regime on life support . if we be to achieve a well future for Syrians , we should let Syrians themselves determine their future . we must learn another lesson from this crisis , too . illicit finance be a fundamental part of Assad ' s playbook , and it be part of Putin ' s playbook and the playbook of dictator and criminal around the world . this hurt ordinary people in our own country and people in Syria . it drive up crime and drive up house price here in the UK . that be why today I be announce £ 36 million in new funding for the National Crime Agency on anti - corruption , a new anti - corruption champion in Margaret Hodge and new sanction on those use the illicit gold trade . previous government have neglect that fight ; for this Government , it be a mission - critical issue . with event move so quickly , the Government have be take every available opportunity to underline our priority . today , my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister be in the region visit the UAE and Saudi Arabia . over the weekend , I have discuss the situation with my turkish , israeli , Emirati and jordanian counterpart , as well as the UN envoy . the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , have also just come back from the region , have attend the Doha forum and the Manama dialogue . whatever the come day bring , I reassure the House that our intense diplomatic engagement will continue . Assad ' s victim can be find all over the world . many have find sanctuary here in the UK over the year , include film - maker Waad al - Kateab . as she say , " we have hope to get our country back " . the UK stand by Syrians like Waad and by Assad ' s victim across the world . in the face of uncertainty and new danger , we will secure the UK against terrorism and illegal migration , while help Syrians to achieve a well future . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for his statement . the Conservative Government call for President Assad to go more than a decade ago , and few will shed any tear at this vile tyrant ' s removal from office . he bear responsibility for countless death , the torture of his opponent , the use of chemical weapon and repression on a horrendous scale . half a million people have die as a result of his abhorrent action and this conflict . we all remember the shocking image , day after day , of the barbaric impact of this conflict , and the debate in this House , include the indecision of the west in respond to chemical weapon attack , which should weigh heavily on our conscience . while Assad may have seek sanctuary in Russia , we look to the Foreign Secretary to explain what step will be take to gather evidence of the crime his reprehensible regime be responsible for and the action be take to bring he to face justice . in view of the situation in Syria , what be the Government ' s assessment of the implication for the syrian resettlement programme ? can he confirm that despite Assad flee to Russia to claim asylum , there will be no asylum claim from former member of the Assad regime in this country , many of whom will be associate with human right abuse ? as the Foreign Secretary say , what happen next be critically important for the civilian of Syria , who have endure so much trauma and tragedy , and for the wide region . Syrians need to be protect by those now control territory . that mean the protection of all community , group and minority . the House must speak with one voice on that , and some will ask what the UK can do and what we should or should not do . there be no easy answer in the day ahead , but it be profoundly in our national interest that we take whatever action we can , include with our partner , to counter any further instability in Syria . like Ministers , I be in the region this weekend discuss the situation with some of our key and crucial partner . give the large porous border , violence , insurgency and flow of weapon in the region , can the Foreign Secretary give detail of the work be undertake to strengthen and secure the border of neighbouring country ? there be a significant risk of a power vacuum in Syria , which could lead to a breakdown of law and order and a proliferation of criminal activity , include the smuggling of weapon and drug production on an industrial scale . will the Foreign Secretary give an update on the action be take to monitor and respond to those criminal activity ? will he also comment on the risk to our security from foreign terrorist fighter be free from prison ? will he give his assessment of the risk of the state ' s weapon , include potential chemical weapon , fall into the control of those who would cause we harm and threaten our security ? instability can fuel a rise in extremism , and not only in Syria . there be a risk that ISIS will seek to exploit the present situation ; this be also an issue at home . will the Foreign Secretary inform we whether a cross - Government review of security and defence implication , include terrorism risk , be under way ? to what level can he share — I appreciate that he might not be able to do so fully in the House — what discussion be under way with our intelligence partner to counter extremist and security threat from the region ? Hayat Tahrir al - Sham ' s historical link to al - Qaeda and their ideology be well known , so they have be proscribe for good reason . will the Foreign Secretary give a timetable for the reported review of HTS and share the detail of the legal mechanism that he will use for that review ? will he give assurance that the Government , with their partner , will be consider the potential threat that HTS pose immediately both to Syria and the region , as well as to our own interest ? security should always be the no . 1 consideration for we all , and we should not forget where this group originally come from . we need to be look not just at their word but at their action . for year , the Assad regime be bail out by the Russians , the Iranians and Hezbollah , but with Russia now focus on its illegal invasion in Ukraine and with Iran ' s presence in the region deplete , will the Foreign Secretary give the Government ' s assessment of how this change in Syria will affect the dynamic in the time ahead ? what be the strategy for deal with Iran , which still want a foothold in Syria to exploit and funnel the misery that we have see for too long ? while we must work towards a well future for Syria , I hope that the Foreign Secretary will agree that the Government must remain alert and prepare for the risk and threat that could still emerge . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for her remark . last week , she be in touch with her concern about what be take place , and we be able to correspond . I be grateful for the manner in which we have be able to engage on this very serious issue . the shadow Foreign Secretary rightly raise the terrible human right record of Russia and Iran in back this grim , brutal regime . she be absolutely right that they should be hold to account for their action . she will know that we do not have a diplomatic presence in Syria at this time , and indeed the Syrians do not have a diplomatic presence here in the UK , so record these action be not straightforward . however , as she would expect , we continue to work with non - governmental organisation and civil society to support they in their effort . we will see over the come day and week how they can both record and hold to account those who keep Syria under this brutal regime not just for the last 13 year , but in the year before that under the regime of Assad ' s father . the shadow Foreign Secretary raise syrian resettlement . let I say that that be premature . the House have seek on a cross - party basis to support the humanitarian need of Syrians ; indeed , she would have see that in her previous role in government . we recognise the displacement next door in Lebanon , Jordan , Turkey , Iraq and neighbouring country , and we will continue to support people in those refugee camp and through the humanitarian aid that we support in - country at this time . the shadow Foreign Secretary raise the tremendous issue on the ground . we be all rightly concern about increase terrorism that might engulf the country , which have different section , community , minority and region — not just HTS , as have be report in the paper . against that backdrop , a Cobra have be convene to fully understand these issue across Government . it would not be right to comment on intelligence matter at this time , but she will understand that the Government be active , as she would expect we to be . the shadow Foreign Secretary be right about the threat not just of terrorism but of illicit drug . have just come back from the region , I be sure that she will have hear Gulf ally raise the issue of Captagon and illegal drug that also prop up Assad ' s regime and flood into Gulf country . we continue to monitor that . none of we want Syria to become like Libya next door — fractured and vulnerable to different terrorist group . we will do all we can . that be why I speak to the UN envoy yesterday — I will continue to stay in close dialogue with he — and to Jordan , Turkey , the United Arab Emirates and other . the UK will do all it can to support this new representative process that have the people of Syria at its heart . we want the jubilation to continue , and not be replace by another bloody and brutal regime . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . across the House we all celebrate the end of this terrible regime , but the very last thing that the syrian people want , as my right hon . Friend say , be for one tyrant to be replace by another , but with an islamic flag . there be another way , but it will not be easy . I be glad to hear that my right hon . friend have begin talk to the UN special representative , because Syrians have be work on other plan — other constitution and law — over a long period , under the auspex of the United Nations . what be desperately need now be to ensure that inclusive transitional arrangement be put in place that can take Syria into a bright world , with the political system that the long - suffer syrian people need and deserve , to give they an extraordinary , multi - ethnic , multi - background country . I hope that that be our priority and that we do not simply step back and say , " oh well , what can we do ? " my right hon . friend be absolutely right . we have to ensure that Druze , Alawites , Christians , as well as Sunni and Shi ' a Muslims and Kurds , have a place in this vast , ancient and important country , and that civilian life be protect . that be why the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) speak to representative of civil society just yesterday , and why I be discuss what happen now . for example , Iran supply the oil to Syria . who will supply that oil now ? we must find way in which public official in Syria can be pay so that they can do that job . over the come hour we desperately need to get police back in Syria , so that there be not widespread disorder . for all of those reason , my right hon . friend be right that we must work with civil society and local partner . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for early sight of his statement . the fall of the Assad regime be momentous for the million of Syrians who have suffer under his brutal rule . the al - Assad dynasty be despot , who use chemical weapon against their own people . the image emerge today from Saydnaya prison illustrate the length that the regime take to murder , torture and silence its opponent . what step be be take to ensure that both Bashar and his brother Maher al - Assad face justice for the crime that they have commit ? these development create immediate strategic challenge for the UK . will the Foreign Secretary assure the House that the UK be take urgent action with our ally to identify , locate and secure the stockpile of chemical weapon in Syria ? what assessment can he offer of how this change will impact russian military capability , particularly in respect of its basis at Latakia and Tartus ? there be joy for many liberated Syrians today . this have be a national process of liberation — it be not that of just one group . the international community must learn the lesson of other regime change and seek to support a process of reconciliation and transition that be lead by the syrian people , and not impose from outside . will the Foreign Secretary say in a little more detail how the UK will support an inclusive national process that lead to a fresh constitution , and , in due course , free and fair election ? will he reassure the House that any recognition of a new Government in Syria will depend on sustained evidence that political , minority and human right be be protect ? the Foreign Secretary be right that the displacement of civilian from Syria under Assad have deepen the need for humanitarian support in the region . he mention £ 11 million in emergency funding , but the drop in humanitarian and other aid to Syria from the UK from 2016 to 2022 be £ 289 million . do he therefore agree that there be an urgent need to restore the UK ' s aid budget to help displace people in their home country , so they have less need to flee overseas ? Assad have fall . we should act swiftly to support the UK ' s strategic interest in the region , and we must do all we can to ensure that what rise in his place represent all the Syrians who yearn to live peacefully , side by side with their neighbour . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that Russia and Iran must be hold to account for the way they prop up this regime and support a man who use chemical weapon on his own population . I hope the hon . Gentleman welcome the further sanction that I announce , and the appointment of Baroness Hodge to lead across Government on issue of illicit finance . we will , of course , work with other , include the French , on the action they have bring . the hon . Gentleman raise , importantly , the issue of stockpile of chemical weapon . he will have see that Julani have be clear that he will not use chemical weapon , and that he will work with the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons on that issue , and we will monitor that very closely . any use of chemical weapon would be grievous , and the international community would have to come together to do all we could to support the syrian people . the hon . Gentleman also ask what more can we do . at this point in time , the important thing be to work with the key country in the region , particularly neighbour and arab partner , and work closely with our E3 partner and the current and incoming US government . that be the key combination to do all we can to support Syria at this time . I mention the real concern about disorder and energy supply and oil , and how we support the public sector to move forward in the appropriate manner , ensure they be pay so that people can do their job . the hon . Gentleman raise the point about aid , and I think we should reflect on something : be the british people and this Parliament , and Parliaments before it , not unite in support Syria with a record amount of sum — more than any other country in the world — just imagine where Syria would be today , notwithstanding the number of displace people and the challenge that currently exist . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . since 28 November , almost a million Syrians , most of they woman and child , have be displace internally due to the recent violence . More than 7 . 2 million Syrians be internally displace and around 6 . 2 million be long - term refugee , mostly in neighbouring country . the Foreign Secretary be right to say that Assad ' s fall could allow million of refugee to finally return home , but what come next could also escalate the country ' s displacement crisis . will he tell we more about what step he be take with our partner on the bad - case scenario , and will he commit to continue , and indeed increase , our support for host refugee country , for example , Turkey , Jordan and Lebanon ? my hon . friend raise these issue with tremendous experience . she will know that Syria face the high number of displace people internally , and that result in various pressure . of course , if chaos or further violence be to ensue over the come day , there would be far displacement within the country . she rightly raise the issue for neighbouring country , all of which have be very keen to speak to I and this Government about the pressure that they would face from further displacement . I reassure she that I have discuss that , particularly with Turkey and Jordan at this time , and they want to work with we to make what be come in Syria work as well it can for the local population . Syria now present a toxic mix . it be a large , heavily armoured but now ungoverned country . there be a range of militia group affiliate to both state and non - state actor . it have a number of fragile neighbour , and we be at a fork - in - the - road moment . rather than discuss talk about Syria with neighbour , what specific action will the UK Government take to ensure that we maximise the chance of success and minimise the chance of failure ? for example , will we re - establish a diplomatic presence in Damascus , and if so , on what timescale ? in the period before the inauguration of President - elect Trump , what action will we take with the American Administration to make sure that there be not a hiatus before the Trump Administration take formal office ? I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that , of course , we be talk to the American Administration . I know that when he be Foreign Secretary , he try to move quickly , but announce within 24 hour that we be reopen an embassy in Syria would be hasty . the press issue at this time be humanitarian aid and work with partner on the issue around energy and order that all be raise with we . we will continue to reflect on our ongoing diplomatic relation with Syria . he will recognise , too , from his time in office , that we have particular concern about the north - eastern corridor in Syria and real concern relate to counter - terrorism and Daesh , which be of course no . 1 in the UK ' s consideration . I welcome everything in the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , and he be right that we must not be blind to the risk of this moment . I want to ask he about two group . first , what be his hope in the future process for the million of Syrians who have flee Syria over the past decade ? also , the kurdish community be one of the large ethnic community without a state , and I wonder what hope he have of engage they in this process for the future . my hon . friend be right to raise the displaced people , many of whom be begin that journey back home . the important thing be that they go home to a country that continue to fuel the hope in their heart and that can cope with the new increase population that will no doubt demand public service . my hon . friend raise the subject of the kurdish minority group who be also in the country . as I have say , and as the United Nations envoy have say , it have to be an inclusive country with a place for everyone . however , my hon . friend will recognise that in that north - eastern corridor we work with all partner , but keep a careful eye on anything that come anywhere close to terrorism . do the Foreign Secretary agree that we should not be surprised that one war criminal , President Putin , be now shelter another , Assad ? he will be aware that substantial asset own by Assad or those link to he be freeze in this country . will he consider , in due course , whether we might use those for the benefit of the people of Syria ? yes , absolutely . the right hon . Gentleman be right . we look at some of the horror in the world — Syria , of course , but also Sudan , not far away , and Ukraine — and we see behind they the hand of Putin . that be why we must do all that we can to hold he to account for the tyranny that he be rain across the world . a few day ago I meet Sawsan Abou Zainedin of Madaniya , a syrian non - governmental organisation . she speak powerfully of the share responsibility of Syrians to build an inclusive state govern by law and citizenship . as they do that , will the Foreign Secretary commit himself to increase UK support for syrian civil society ? will he also increase support for human right expert , include the UN , as they document the horrific crime that have be commit against syrian civilian and work to bring to justice those responsible ? the £ 11 million that I announce early do , of course , include further support for civil society , which be vital at this time . today my thought be with Bashar Helmi and Mounzer Darsani and their family , and with all the other syrian refugee who escape Assad ' s brutality and resettle on the Isle of Bute . their hope , and the hope of all the people of Syria , will be that Syrians be now able to secure the peaceful future that they want , rather than Syria become a battlefield in another ' s proxy war . how would the Foreign Secretary explain and legally justify the fact that the Syrians whom he mention , who be on the street cheer the demise of Assad , have wait five decade to be free of he , be , on day one , on the receive end of a massive israeli airstrike ? I speak to my israeli counterpart yesterday , and it be right to understand that there be legitimate security concern for Israel , particularly in the context of a country that have house isis , Daesh , and al - Qaeda . I wish it be as simple as the hon . Gentleman seem to think it be . for all the reason that I have give , we want an exclusive society that support everyone , but none of we can have any truck with terrorist group . on the demise of Assad ' s regime in Syria , my thought be with the syrian people , who have be leave to pick up the piece after his barbaric action , include his use of chemical weapon . no doubt , have prop up his brutal rule for more than a decade , both Putin and the iranian leadership be now nurse their bloody nose . peace and stability will be foremost in everyone ' s mind , and I understand that the Government be urgently review the lifting of the terrorism proscription of syrian rebel group , but surely there must be an undertaking beforehand that the right of woman and minority will be secure . follow the recent report of israeli strike against chemical weapon depot in Syria , what measure be be take , in collaboration with our international partner , to ensure that those be make secure and do not cause harm to civilian ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Defence Committee . he be right to mention the importance of woman , and I reassure he that the fund that we be make available will absolutely support woman . he mention proscription . the situation on the ground in Syria be very fluid . our priority at this time be the safety of syrian civilian , but let I be absolutely clear : we do not comment on proscription , for good reason , but we should recognise that al - Qaeda have kill hundred of british citizen in barbaric attack span decade . that be the original reason why HTS be proscribe . I have never regret my vote in favour of military action in 2013 , and I certainly welcome the fact that President Assad have be bring down . I welcome what the Foreign Secretary have to say on humanitarian aid , but there be myriad UN Security Council resolution in place on humanitarian aid , and on rebuild Syria in all its form . what role do the Foreign Secretary see the UN — and indeed those Security Council resolution — play ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to mention the importance of the UN , and resolution 2254 be particularly relevant to Syria . if he review that resolution , he will see that it largely assume that the Assad regime be in place , so it be important to support the UN special representative at this time . if Syria be to succeed , there must be a great role for the UN , and I intend to discuss these issue with the Secretary - General and other in the come day and week . I share the delight of my syrian friend that Assad have go . I only wish that the world have act to support the syrian people soon , and that our dear friend Jo Cox be around to see this . I pay tribute to the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , for meet the syrian British Consortium in Doha over the weekend , and I look forward to a further meeting with he and the group in due course . despite the denial and downplaying of Assad ' s crime over the year , include by some member of this House , it be undeniable that hundred of thousand of people have be imprison by Assad , include in Saydnaya prison . there be an urgent need to release those prisoner . some of they be several storey down , and there be report on the ground that people be unable to free they at the moment , such be the electronic lock that have be put on the gate . the White Helmets be on the ground , try to unlock the gate so that people can be free , but there be a real worry that they will not get to they in time , and that people will starve , or even run out of oxygen . what can the British Government and the international community do to ensure that , in the next 24 hour , more be do to get technical support on the ground , so that we can unlock the door and free the political prisoner ? my hon . friend raise a really important issue . so grim be the Assad regime that I see a young child — a toddler , effectively — walk out of a prison . this issue have command a lot of attention in the last few hour . we will continue to support civil society and public service as good we can in get individual out , but he will recognise that that be against a backdrop of some constraint . we do not have a diplomatic presence in Syria — we have not have one for a very long time . he mention prisoner ; we should never forget the 100 , 000 or more people who have simply disappear . we hope and pray that many of those people will come out from underground . may I gently remind the House that one should never idealise the opposition in these scenario ? some of what I have hear today remind I very much of what I hear in this House after the downfall of Saddam Hussein and of Muammar Gaddafi . the truth be that in Syria , it be a choice between monster and maniacs . I do not regret my vote either , in 2013 and 2015 , when the coalition want to bomb first one side and then the other in the same civil war . can the Foreign Secretary throw some light on what he expect Turkey to do , have support the islamist opposition , now that it will be face to face with its kurdish enemy ? the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee be right — Ex - Chair . forgive I . the ex - Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee be right to highlight the complexity of these issue . he will recognise that Turkey have the most complex of relationship with HTS . in fact , many have forget that HTS be a proscribe organisation in Turkey . Turkey also have legitimate terrorist concern , which it have raise with this country on a number of occasion . notwithstanding the complexity of the situation , we have to work with all group in an inclusive manner , but I will be really clear that in the UK , we remain concerned about Daesh , and about extremism in camp that we know exist in the north - east . we be vigilant about those issue , and we be happy to — we have to — work with kurdish minority group , who will assist we in that enterprise . could my right hon . friend share his assessment of the impact of event in Syria on the stability of the wide middle east , particularly Palestine , Israel and Lebanon ? be there a particular role for UN blue helmet beyond the buffer zone , give what have happen around the Golan height ? my hon . friend raise an important issue . on the one hand , some of what we see in Syria be a consequence of a diminish Hezbollah and a diminish Iran . on the other hand , we do not want further friction between Syria , its neighbour and other in the region . I see the tank that move into the Golan height , and I speak to the israeli Foreign Minister yesterday . he say that he believe that that be temporary , and that it be in response to what Israel see as a breach of the agreement strike in the 1970 between the two party , give that the syrian regime have now flee from that border . I hope that the situation be temporary , but I recognise the security concern . the situation in Syria will inevitably lead to change and increase pressure on migration route . what step have the Government take so far on asylum claim from syrian national ? can he commit to make sure that the Home Affairs Committee be keep update on any change ? the right hon . Lady be right to raise these issue . that be why I mention they in my statement , and why we be work in - country , both in Syria and with neighbour , to ensure that we do not have new migration route open up . we want a safe and secure Syria that be inclusive of all community ; we have to be mindful of that . like many city , Exeter be home to a syrian refugee community , and it be frankly delighted by the demise of Assad ' s appalling regime . what effort can the Government make to support an inclusive political settlement that include all Syria ' s ethnic and religious group — include , of course , the kurdish community — potentially on the federal model , which have prove successful elsewhere in the region ? we recognise that many Syrians who have find a home in the United Kingdom be here specifically because Syria be not an inclusive place . as we hold out for that inclusive place , our intent be to work with partner to try to bring it about , but the truth be that this have to come from the syrian people . the good we can do be to support public service and civil society . long go be the day when a p5 member such as ourselves could seek to construct the term under which freedom be achieve . we have to work with partner on the ground . we welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement on this fast - evolve situation . he have refer to the opportunity and risk for the many displace Syrians who be look to return to Syria . will the Government be provide assistance to those Syrians in this country who wish to return to their homeland ? will the Government look to follow the example of european nation such as Germany , which have suspend asylum application ? I have to say that that have not be put to I in the last few hour . the issue that have be put to I be the humanitarian need in Syria and the humanitarian support for its neighbour . I think the consensus in this House and the significant fund with which we have support Syria should reassure people of our content to support people on the ground in the region . thirty - five year ago , as the evil regime of Erich Honecker collapse and the Berlin wall come down , the threat of chaos in East Germany be counter , and that country reintegrate into western Europe only with the investment of $ 2 trillion . the Foreign Secretary rightly speak of the danger to the UK that continue chaos in Syria could cause . if Syria be not to sink far into despair , and if the UK and other democracy be not to feel the repercussion , where will the necessary investment for Syria ' s reconstruction come from ? my hon . friend raise an important issue , look ahead . he will recognise that there be a real bandwidth problem as we look across the world , and particularly across the middle east . many would like to see a ceasefire in Gaza — I certainly would — and the road to reconstruction begin . many of we want to see Putin exit his troop from Ukraine and face justice , and there will be the necessary reconstruction there . of course reconstruction be necessary in Syria , but I remind the House that , under both the last government and this Government , this country have provide £ 4 billion - worth of aid . UK taxpayer have play their part in support Syria . we have announce a furth £ 11 million today , and we continue to play our part , but no one would suggest that we could do it all on our own . the situation in the middle east be extremely volatile , and the situation that have play out in Syria over recent day only add to that instability . have the Foreign Secretary have conversation in recent day with Ministry of Defence colleague about the potential need to reinforce and bolster security at our sovereign base area in Cyprus ? I reassure the hon . Gentleman that those discussion be ongoing , as he would expect give the extent of the challenge in the middle east , and particularly the challenge previously in Lebanon . the fall of Assad ' s regime mark a pivotal moment for Syria , offer a chance to end over a decade of brutal conflict and suffering at the hand of a man content with use chemical weapon against his fellow citizen . what step be the Foreign Secretary take to ensure that Britain work with international partner to secure a stable and inclusive future for Syria , so that all syrian people can finally live in peace and rebuild their life ? I be grateful for the opportunity to repeat that it be very important for I to talk to Emirati , turkish and jordanian colleague at this time , and for the Foreign Office operation to be engage with the United States and other to ensure that we see a transition to genuine representation that be inclusive . in 2013 , this House vote against UK military action follow the use of chemical weapon by Bashar al - Assad ' s Government . one effect of that vote be to deter the British Government from take action , but another effect be to have influence the US Government into take no action at that time . will the Foreign Secretary support Parliament debate and voting on any future UK military action , even if we have learn from 2013 that there may be time when such scrutiny should happen after military action take place ? draw on my 24 year of experience in this House , I would say that all member take the subject of military action with a seriousness and sobriety we do not see with any other issue that come to the Chamber . I do not think there be any disagreement in the House about Assad . it be important to remember that the person responsible for the crime against the syrian people be Assad , and his brutal regime . the joy on the face of Syrians and the horror of the Saydnaya prison emphasise both the evil of the Assad regime and the hope for Syria ' s future , as my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have say . however , the complexity of the ethnic , religious , political and military grouping within Syria and the wide region make the pathway to a stable , peaceful and inclusive Syria challenging , to say the least . what practical step can the UK take to support the bringing together of the appropriate syrian representative , to help enable they to build the peaceful , stable Syria that we all wish to see ? my hon . friend be right , and she be draw on year of experience of the issue of cohesion and the bring together of different community . over the come day , I hope to see that inclusivity in action . I have say to the UN special representative that the UK stand ready to support he in whatever way he deem necessary . clearly , the UN will play an important role over the come day . it be important that the regional actor , along with partner here in Europe and in the United States , be able to convene to ensure that the new rise tide in Syria be able to keep the hope that the people be demonstrate on the street alive . the Syrian Democratic Forces be manage detention facility hold 9 , 000 daesh fighter in Syria . what be the Foreign Secretary ' s assessment of the likelihood of ensure the continue management of those facility , keep people who threaten our security imprison ? what action be he take with ally to achieve that outcome ? as I have say , this be the no . 1 issue for the UK Government . we will continue to work closely with in - country partner and those in neighbouring country to ensure that safety for our population . this be a very serious issue and the UK Government be fully engage across all channel . I welcome the Government ' s decision to appoint Dame Margaret Hodge as the anti - corruption champion . she will do important work on illicit trading , not least in relation to drug in Syria . we must not allow those route to be a source of resource for violent terrorist group . on the night when it become clear that the Assad regime be about to crumble , many of my constituent in Barking from syrian background watch minute by minute — it be a highly emotional night for they . along with the rest of the world , they see the regime fall and , with it , decade of brutal rule that have destroy life . do the Foreign Secretary agree that not only be this a moment of hope for the syrian people , but it be a critical moment as we see the russian and iranian influence in the region push back , which be well for british national security ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for pay tribute to Baroness Hodge , who have be a doughty champion on issue of illicit finance . I be so pleased that she accept this appointment . I be with she this morning at the National Crime Agency . my hon . friend talk of the joy and hope in the heart of member of the syrian community in her constituency . we be see that right across our country and across the global community . we have to do all we can to support it , and hope and pray that Syria move into a bright future , understand that it be one of the most ancient of country . it have be a home for so many community , and be one of the centre of the birth of civilisation . I think we all welcome the fall of the Assad regime , but it be important that he and his henchman be eventually bring to justice . as we have see in Iraq and Libya , the swift fall of a dictator lead to a dysfunctional state , with potential for illegal immigration , terrorism and many other problem . what can the Foreign Secretary say about Britain ' s role in ensure that Syria do not become a dysfunctional regime , how we can prevent terrorism from move from Syria into other part of the world and , importantly , how we can deal on the ground with those who will genuinely have to seek asylum , rather than push they into the hand of people smuggler ? at the heart of what the right hon . Gentleman say be justice . he be absolutely right that the joy will quickly turn into accountability for what go before . we may see it come out of the prison , as people begin to interrogate what happen to the 100 , 000 who disappear . People will want to hold those responsible accountable , and that be understandable . the right hon . Gentleman also raise important counter - terrorism issue . Daesh ' s ability to direct , enable and inspire attack within our country be significant ; we have see it behind a lot of global event . that be why we be proud of the part that we play in the global coalition against Daesh , and the work that we do in north - eastern Syria in particular . what discussion be take place with Turkey , because the SDF in the north and the east of Syria be do an important job in contain Daesh fighter , and it be essential that it be able to continue to do that ? do the Foreign Secretary fear that Turkey ' s action may have a detrimental effect on the job that the SDF be do ? I reassure my hon . friend that I have a good work relationship with the turkish Foreign Minister , Hakan Fidan . I speak to he yesterday , and last week in Malta . I fully expect Turkey , as a member of NATO and a close friend of our country , to continue to work with we on those press issue , recognise the threat to itself as well as to the United Kingdom . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement on what I know be a fast - evolve situation . in the come day and week , he will have to think about the issue of diplomatic relation with Syria . do he agree that one prerequisite of that relationship must be the handing over of any chemical weaponry that Assad have leave behind , and will he work with international partner to ensure that that chemical weaponry be take off the hand of anyone who want to retain it , so that it be destroy and do not fall into dangerous hand ? in so many way , this horrid story , or at least the global attention on this horrid story , begin with the use of chemical weapon . it would be fitting to see they take away and absolutely destroy so that they can never be use again . it have be important to seek the clarification that those who have lead this rebellion be work with the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and have set themselves against any use of chemical weapon and the preservation of those stockpile . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and for the diligent and hard work of his Ministers , in particular the Minister for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , in keep the House apprise of the ongoing issue , as he do last week and in the background over prior week . last week , I urge great awareness of how the development in Syria be interconnect , particularly with regard to Russia ' s distraction and weakness . we all welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s remark on the escalation of the matter to a Cobra secretariat and the broad coalition we see on the Front Bench , in particular note the security implication , the Home Office on migration flow , and his Department and the Ministry of Defence ' s role in any stabilisation work . will the Secretary of State provide his view on his Department ' s ability to support such a significant piece of stabilisation activity alongside other work , follow the disbandment of a Department for which that be the sole role ? as we know , the Russians have use their presence in Syria to expand their brutal security presence in other part of the world , in particular Africa . what step be we take to assess how the development will impact african state that have learn to rely on Russia for their security ? have we extend our hand of friendship to those state so they have the opportunity to avoid the manifestation of such situation ? finally — order . member have to keep their question short . I could listen to my hon . friend all afternoon , but let I set about answer his question . I be grateful that he mention my hon . friend the Under - Secretary , because it enable I to thank he for the way he be pursue his role at this time , get right across the region and the issue and draw on his own experience . my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) be right to raise the aid question and how , indeed , that aid be spend . in the context of Syria , sadly , we be talk about a civil society and non - governmental organisation that have be on the ground for many year , so he can draw some confidence from the accountability in the way we work with they . that be , for example , why we have make a furth £ 300 , 000 available to the White Helmets , which have such a tremendous record . he be also right to talk about Africa and the way in which Russia have use Syria as a staging post for its action there . of course , we be make the necessary assessment of that capability now that Russia have retreat . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his statement . I welcome his confirmation of the continuation of UK humanitarian aid to the people of Syria . I also welcome his commitment that the future governance of Syria must be decide by the syrian people and not by foreign actor . do he agree that a safe , secure , stable and prosperous Syria be in the interest of not only the syrian people but Britain ? will he commit the UK to take all possible step to support the peaceful transition to such a Syria ? yes , I can confirm that . I welcome the long - overdue fall of Assad ' s murderous regime and recognise the joy and hope and also trepidation that many Syrians be feel . it be disgraceful that the first thought of some have be to call for syrian refugee to be force to return , while the hard - right Austrian Government have suspend family reunification and talk of resume deportation . will the Government pledge their continue support of those who have flee Syria and make their home in the UK and for their freedom to choose whether they return or remain here ? my hon . friend be right to raise those issue . it be important to remember that Syrians have now be in this country for many year indeed . their life be here ; their child be bear here . those be just not the first issue that come to mind . it be also important to recognise that Syria ' s neighbouring country — Lebanon , Turkey and Jordan — bear the big number of displace people who have have to flee Syria . we can see from the scene in the region that Syrians want to go back — they be desperate to go back — and we should support they to do that with the public service that they will no doubt need . no one should grieve the demise of Assad , who be prop up for far too long by Russia and Iran . however , the link of HTS to al - Qaeda mean that the future be far from certain or secure . with that in mind , what step have the Government take to promote the rule of law in Syria ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important issue . twenty - one year ago , al - Qaeda drive a truck - bomb into our consulate in Istanbul , kill 16 british and turkish member of staff , and we should never , ever forget that . it be in the serious context of HTS be an alias of al - Qaeda back in 2017 that it be proscribe in the United Kingdom . I will not comment on issue of proscription , but one would expect any responsible Government to consider the detail of these issue very soberly and carefully , with partner such as the United States , for which that organisation remain proscribe . the syrian diaspora in York will welcome the fall of the Assad regime , but what follow really matter . what discussion have the Foreign Secretary have with the International Criminal Court about the crucial gathering of evidence at this time of transition to build the case for justice , which be the Court ' s responsibility ? I assure my hon . friend that we will of course do all we can to ensure that Assad be hold to account . he be now huddle in Russia with that other war criminal , Putin , who must also be hold to account for his monstrous crime . I do not think that anybody could deny Syrians their moment of joy over the weekend after their 13 year of devastating civil war and over half a century of be brutalise by the Assad regime . however , a Syria whose future be decide by Syrians need long - term stability . in the medium term , what work be be undertake by the office for conflict , stabilisation and mediation to analyse the situation , and will it be make available to the House ? in the short term , we have see what can happen in other place after such a moment of joy , so in his immediate response , what lesson will the Foreign Secretary take from Iraq and Libya ? what happen in Iraq and Libya — the vacuum that engulf those country when a dictator leave , lead to sectarian violence from group upon group and to those place become haven for terrorism — be deeply worrying . that be why , despite the joy , we remain cautious . we be keen to work with partner on the ground , keen to support civil society , and keen to encourage an inclusive society , as have be indicate by the UN special representative . we will continue to do all we can to avoid the quagmire that could replace the fallen dictator . it have be deeply move to see syrian family reunite after year in Assad ' s prison . on the wide situation , it be important that we learn the lesson from the past — not least from Iraq and Libya , where year of even great chaos and disaster replace the dictatorship . many country be militarily involve in Syria , but people do not want our military resource or troop drag into more war in the middle east . can the Foreign Secretary assure we that — as distinct from humanitarian aid , which be welcome — no military resource or personnel will be send to Syria ? I be grateful for the way in which the hon . Gentleman have outline the danger after a dictator fall . he will understand that it would be wrong of I to comment on operational issue , but I find the scenario that he raise highly , highly , highly unlikely . as the people of Syria come out of the horror of war , torture and imprisonment , and many go into asylum , can the Foreign Secretary assure we that the foreign troop in Syria at the present time — particularly the turkish troop in the north — will leave ; that they will respect the right of the kurdish people to live safely in their own area ; and that any incoming government in Damascus will also respect the diversity of the country and all the minority , particularly the kurdish minority ? from his discussion with the israeli Foreign Minister , be the Foreign Secretary satisfy that Israel will withdraw immediately from the area that it have illegally occupy over the past couple of day , just north of the already illegally occupy Golan height ? we be in the early day of a fluid situation , so it be not for I to give the right hon . Gentleman the assurance that he seek , except to say that of course I continue to talk to our close ally in the region about their security concern and the issue face Syria . in relation to the conversation that I have with the israeli Foreign Minister , there be an arrangement in place — it be put in place in 1970 . it have work and have sustain an arrangement in the Golan height . the Israelis ' assessment be that the withdrawal of the regime over the past few day — and the potential for chaos , which have be discuss in this House and be indicate in the right hon . Gentleman ' s question — have require they to protect that buffer zone . as I have say , I hope that that situation be temporary . as we have just hear , Israel seize more territory in the Syrian - control Golan height yesterday . the Foreign Secretary just mention that Israel say that would be temporary , but the occupation be recognise as illegal under international law , so what will happen if the Israelis decide that it be not temporary ? my hon . friend rightly say that that territory be illegally occupy . I confirm from the Dispatch Box that , as have be the case under successive government , the UK assessment be that it be occupy land . may I bring the Foreign Secretary back to a point raise by the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , which I do not think he fully address ? will he assure the House that the Government will block any asylum application from Assad ' s acolyte in the year ahead ? I have see it mention in the past few day that Asma al - Assad , as someone with UK citizenship , might attempt to come to our country . I confirm that she be a sanctioned individual and be not welcome here in the UK . have appoint Margaret Hodge to her role this morning , and have introduce in the past five month more sanction than ever before in that space of time , I assure the House that I will do everything in my power to ensure that no one from that family find a place in the UK . I declare an interest , in that several year ago I advise the moderate syrian opposition coalition and other moderate . do my right hon . friend agree that in order to ensure that the syrian people be at the heart of the new Syria and to strengthen stability , it be important that the new political structure be democratic and pluralistic ; that the moderate opposition , who have dedicate themselves to plan for this day ever since the horror of 2011 , be closely involved ; and that engagement with our ally and the United Nations — which I know be ongoing — be prioritise , particularly give UN Security Council resolution 2254 ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for that question , and for his work on , experience of and dedication to these issue over many year . there have be a lot of focus on HTS , but he will recognise that those who free Damascus contain many group . many group make up the opposition , come from different position , and the inclusive Syria that we talk about have to be a place that include all of they . my hon . friend be right to put on the record those group that our own country have be able to work with over many year . I thank the Secretary of State very much for his statement . the downfall of the Assad regime and the liberation of Damascus be to be laud . the same Damascus , of course , be one of the early place where Christianity be teach and preach , as the Bible mention — Damascus be often mention in the good book . the free world have fail in the protection of minority group and religious belief . we need to be mindful that Turkey and Turkish - lead terrorist be currently attack Kurds in northern Syria . it be estimate that Turkey have kill some 300 , 000 Kurds in northern Syria since 2018 , with another 300 , 000 face the same fate today . furthermore , with Damascus have gain its freedom , minority in Syria must be protect against the brutal , violent and evil HTS . will the Secretary of State ensure that this transitional peace Government will engage to protect all religious minority in Syria ? the hon . Gentleman be right to remind the House of the ancient nature of Syria , and the many religious community that have find a home there and make it up over thousand of year . we will continue to work with all such group , and the hon . Gentleman ' s question underline the complexity of the issue and the challenge for Syria as we look ahead . member from across the House , include the Secretary of State , have talk about the religious and ethnic complexity of Syria . what do the Secretary of State make of those who be call for a federal - type system in Syria ? should the Government be give capacity and voice to those view and approach ? there have be a number of proposition in the last few day , all of which merit further scrutiny and understanding . I be not go to back any single suggestion on behalf of the UK — I think it be important that those suggestion should come from organisation on the ground , and that we continue to work with regional partner . I stand by what I say before at the Dispatch Box : long go be the day in which a plan be draw up in the UK Foreign Office and present as if it be the plan . that can not be the way ; we have to work with the grain of syrian society , as complex and diverse as my hon . friend rightly suggest it be . like Minister Falconer , I be at the Doha forum this weekend , and there be palpable relief among the vast majority of delegate that the brutal murderer Assad have finally fall . however , Sergey Lavrov also attend the Doha forum , and although I boycott his session , the readout be that he be deeply uncomfortable in answer question about Syria — rightly so , as he have so much syrian blood on his hand , alongside his boss Vladimir Putin . do my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary agree that it be unacceptable for Russia to retain its two military basis in Syria , and that those basis must be close down for the stability of the region ? my hon . friend make a very strong point about russian capability and desire . the two basis that exist also run operation into Africa and support militia group on the african continent , and Russia ' s long - stand , cynical desire to have a deep sea port in the region be what sit behind Putin ' s support for Assad in the first place . we see Vladimir Putin in this Parliament . rise — Order . I quickly remind member that I be go to run this statement to the end . I think the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley refer to Minister Falconer by name , which of course he should not have do . in his statement , the Foreign Secretary refer to HTS co - operate with the international community on the monitoring of chemical weapon . give the situation on the ground in Syria and the ongoing chaos , what confidence do he have that there be the capacity for HTS to conduct that work ? be there anything the UK Government can do to support the capacity in the region to keep those weapon safe ? work with the OPCW on the ground be hugely important , and the work of the UN envoy be also essential . we will do all that we can to ensure those stockpile be properly protect . there will be great jubilation at see the back of Assad . I very much welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , include his reference to illicit finance , which be critically important , and what he say about build an inclusive society that protect minority . this be a great moment of hope , but it come with trepidation as well . the Foreign Secretary speak of a new hope for Syrians get their country back , and I be grateful for his clarification regard the Golan height . whatever emerge from this transition , I know he share the desire to seek a reliable partner and a supporter of democracy to replace this dreadful regime , but can he say something about the urgency of establish that partnership and the timescale for it ? what work be go on with partner to make sure that it happen quickly ? I be very grateful for the interest in these issue and in the region that my hon . friend have show over many , many year . he will understand that we be in the foothill here , and that a lot have to be do to stabilise Syria at this time . in that context , it be a little premature to give a timetable . I understand why he want one — he want to guarantee that thing will not go south over the come month — but the issue that I raise relate to oil , fuel and energy and support for public service be press on our mind . we have to ensure that disorder do not set in , and that be what we will be work closely on with partner over the come day . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , and the detailed and nuanced answer he have give to what have be some complex question be extremely welcome . one thing that be not complex be the fact that Assad be a murderer who have take 500 , 000 people ' s life , and my right hon . friend be absolutely right to resist call to reopen channel and negotiate with he . I have two question : one simple , one not so simple . first , do my right hon . friend agree that every single Member of this House should welcome the downfall of Assad ? secondly , do he have thought on what this mean for Russia ? will its catastrophic failure in Syria change its behaviour in other conflict , include in Ukraine ? I think my hon . friend can feel the united position on Assad in this Chamber . we be one of the great democratic Chambers of the world , which be why we know a dictator when we see one , and we call that out across the House . on the other point my hon . friend make about Putin , I be always reassure in these moment that in the end dictator fall because they never attend to all of their population . they always suppress the will of minority group and opposition , and in the end they have to run their country with a horrible , horrendous iron rod , because they know — as we see with those statue come down — that there be a target on their back . that be where I take heart about the future of Vladimir Putin . I want to echo the call welcome the downfall of the brutal and evil Assad regime , and just to press the Foreign Secretary a little . what step will the Government take to preserve all the humanitarian route available , and to ensure that a moderate , prosperous and , indeed , multi - polar Syria emerge from the present situation ? there be the £ 11 million I have announce in further aid to support the civil group . as I have say , I have have conversation today with regional partner to ensure that those route be available , and it be good to see people feel able to return home . my right hon . friend be right in his statement to emphasise the effect of global instability on illegal immigration into the UK . not only be support displace Syrians as they return home the right thing to do — although it be the right thing to do — but it support the security of the UK . can he assure the House that Syrians return home will have ongoing humanitarian support from this Government ? yes , I be very pleased to say that at the Dispatch Box . I join the Foreign Secretary , the shadow Foreign Secretary and everyone across this House in welcome the demise of Assad ' s brutal regime . unlike my predecessor in Rochdale , Mr George Galloway , who tweet his support for Assad this weekend , much to the disdain of many in my constituency , I do not mourn Assad ' s demise . we should not be surprise by Mr Galloway , give that he have long be a friend of dictator across the planet . I remind the Foreign Secretary that Assad be no friend of the palestinian people — he bomb , torture and murder Palestinians who stand up to he . do my right hon . friend also recognise their bravery today ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to remind the House that our own democracy have demagogue and charlatan who can prey on individual . he be also right to remind we that so few be safe under Assad ' s brutal regime , which see the murder of hundred of thousand of people , people disappear on a scale that certainly the 21st century have not see and the use of chemical weapon . that he have find safety and comfort in Russia be , frankly , appal . he should be rot in a jail for all that he have do . like many in this House , I have campaign and work with syrian friend in their struggle over much of the last decade , and I welcome the demise of Assad . the Secretary of State be absolutely correct that it be for the syrian people to decide what happen next , although I greatly fear that the voice of many syrian people will not be hear unless they be give strong international support to be hear . there be a strong pro - democracy and pro - human right movement in Syria , particularly among woman and youth - lead organisation . what be the Government do to ensure that the voice of woman and youth be hear ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the importance of woman and youth . woman have be mention , but youth not so much this afternoon . I have be aware of youth group in Syria over many year , and we will do all we can to amplify those voice at this time . I thank the Foreign Secretary for the statement . Bill present Domestic Abuse ( Aggravated Offences ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Josh Babarinde , support by Caroline Voaden , Alex Brewer , Lisa Smart , Liz Jarvis , Anna Sabine , Calum Miller , Ben Maguire , Alison Bennett , Charlotte Cane , Helen Maguire and Dr Danny Chambers , present a Bill to create certain domestic abuse aggravate offence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 145 ) . terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 1 - Review of the role of the regulator in oversight of public protection requirement " ( 1 ) within 18 month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament a report review the role of the Security Industry Authority as the regulator . ( 2 ) the report must include a cost - benefit analysis compare the respective situation for each of the matter list in subsection ( 3 ) on how — ( a ) these have be carry out by the Security Industry Authority ; and ( b ) they might be carry out by local authority team if the regulatory duty be transfer to they . ( 3 ) the issue which must be include in the analysis contain in the report lay under subsection ( 1 ) be — ( a ) effectiveness in perform investigation and enforcement function ; ( b ) relationship with other locally - base enforcement regime ; ( c ) relationship and interaction with exist statutory licensing regime ; and ( d ) effectiveness of provision of guidance as part of oversight , adherence and awareness of the new public protection requirement . " — ( Matt Vickers . ) this new clause would require a report review the role of the Security Industry Authority , include a comparative cost - benefit analysis of the regulatory function be carry out by the Security Industry Authority with those function be provide alternatively at a local authority level . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — develop and implement training on public protection procedure — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must take step as the Secretary of State consider appropriate to ensure that — ( a ) adequate training provision be make available for person responsible for qualifying premise or qualify event in respect of public protection procedure that include — ( i ) the monitoring of premise or event and the immediate vicinity of premise or event ; ( ii ) evacuation procedure and the movement of individual into , out of and within a premise or event ; ( iii ) physical safety and security of occupant in a premise ; ( iv ) provision of security information to individual on a premise or at an event ; and ( v ) other measure relate to terrorism protection training ; ( b ) a training implementation plan be put in place to ensure all organisation and person to which the provision of this Act apply be encourage to undertake training relate to public protection procedure . ( 2 ) function of the Secretary of State under this section may be exercise by any organisation or person authorise to do so by the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament a report set out the step they have take in relation to subsection ( 1 ) . " this new clause , together with Amendment 28 , would require the Secretary of State to develop and implement a training plan in respect of qualifying premise and event before Parts 1 and 2 of the Act be commence . government amendment 1 and 2 . amendment 27 , in clause 19 , page 15 , line 5 , leave out " different " and insert " low " . this amendment restrict the Secretary of State to lower the daily penalty rate for non - compliance by regulation . government amendment 3 and 4 . Amendment 25 , in clause 32 , page 22 , line 35 , leave out " 100 " and insert " 200 " . this amendment set the floor for standard duty at 200 individual . amendment 26 , page 22 , line 38 , leave out " 500 " and insert " 799 " . this amendment set the floor for enhanced duty premise and qualify event at 799 individual . amendment 28 , in clause 37 , page 25 , line 31 , leave out from " force " to end of line 36 and insert " on the day after the Secretary of State have lay before Parliament a report on develop and implement training on public protection procedure contain within this Act . " this amendment be consequential on NC2 . government amendment 5 to 24 . I pay tribute to everyone who have contribute to the Martyn ' s law campaign , the incredible group of individual who be the Survivors against Terror , and all the business , charity , local authority , civil servant and security partner that have help to shape the Bill . most importantly , I thank the tireless campaigner Figen Murray , and her son Martyn in whose name this Bill have be devise . I would like to reflect for a moment on Martyn and the 21 other innocent victim who be kill in the heinous attack in the Manchester Arena in 2017 . the loss of their life and the pain of their family and friend must never be forget . I pass on the apology of my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , who be unable to be present today to speak on behalf of the official Opposition . Martyn ' s law be a manifesto pledge for the Conservative party , and we publish a version of the legislation in draft during the last Parliament . we take the issue of public protection very seriously when in office . we deliver £ 1 billion of counter - terrorism funding for 2024 - 25 , so our force can mount a swift and effective response to any terrorist attack . funding will total at least £ 1 billion in 2024 - 25 as we provide essential support for counter - terrorism policing and ensure the police have the resource they need to meet and deal with the threat of terrorism . we enshrine our Counter - Terrorism and Sentencing Act 2021 in law , introduce tough sentence and end the automatic release of potential terrorist offender . those find guilty of serious terror offence will now be hand a minimum 14 - year prison term and up to 25 year on licence . part of the reason for publish this legislation in draft be a concern to get the balance right for the different premise to which it apply — their responsibility , and how feasible it be for they to effectively comply with those responsibility and with public safety . we be grateful to the Home Affairs Committee , which undertake pre - legislative scrutiny of the Bill and make valuable recommendation , and to all those who respond to the Home Office consultation . it be because Martyn ' s law be so important that it be imperative we get it right in this place . it be in that spirit of support , co - operation and openness that we have suggest small amendment to the Bill . new clause 1 would require the Secretary of State to produce a report on the effectiveness of the Security Industry Authority as the regulator of these new provision for both this House and other place within 18 month of the passing of the Bill . this be in recognition of the challenge inherent in extend new regulatory power to an exist body . the report would include a comparative cost - benefit analysis of the SIA ' s regulatory function and an analysis of the implication if those function be alternatively carry out at the local authority level . the SIA ' s role in this Bill be extensive , and it be our view that a review after the roll - out of the new provision will provide the Government with the opportunity to take stock and decide whether the exist arrangement be the most effective regulatory framework . if they be a success , that be fantastic , but if there be issue , it be surely good to address they early and , if necessary , make change then and there . I know there have be some anxiety from organisation about a perceive lack of clarity in how the SIA will approach regulation and whether it have the institutional dexterity to understand such a diverse range of venue . from my discussion with relevant representative group , business and venue operator around the country , I know there be wide - range support for the change in our amendment from the industry . they want to ensure their venue be as safe as they can be . indeed , many have already take step unilaterally to improve security and be eager to work with the Government on further progress . however , there be a feeling that current advice and guidance be limited , and this lack of information be lead to anxiety , particularly at a time when business confidence be fall and new taxis be incoming . therefore I ask the Government to ensure that affected venue and industry be give full advice on how to comply with the incoming regulation as soon as possible . by agree to a future review of the SIA ' s regulatory effectiveness now , the Government can ease those anxiety and ensure that everyone be focus on the most important objective : deliver the provision in the Bill and bolster our collective security . for that reason , I ask the Government to support new clause 1 . we have table amendment 27 in a similar spirit of openness and co - operation . it would prevent the Secretary of State from increase by regulation the daily amount venue can be fine under this legislation . as the Bill stand , place that be classify as standard duty venue can be fine up to £ 500 a day for violation . for those class as enhance duty venue , the fine be £ 50 , 000 a day for violation . I know the Minister will have meet many of the organisation that be require to make change under the Bill , and I be sure that he , like I , find they to be actively supportive of the change and genuinely interested in work collaboratively towards well safety regulation . without the regulation and guideline be set out clearly , there be a risk that business will worry about be fine quite heavily just because they do not quite know what they should be do . do my hon . friend agree that this amendment and new clause 1 will help cement that clarity in place ? all the people in the industry be genuinely and wholeheartedly commit to improve the safety of their venue , but there be anxiety and concern about what that mean . the review of who be in charge and who be responsible for ensure compliance will get rid of those anxiety and foster confidence in the industry and let we move forward together with the industry . we would like reassurance about how the Government intend to use the power to increase the rate of daily penalty . the Bill allow the SIA to levy large fine for non - compliance with the requirement of this legislation in addition to the daily penalty . for a sector recover from covid , those could be difficult to meet , as could a daily penalty of £ 500 levy on a small organisation run by volunteer . we have hear from several trade association about the potential impact . Neil Sharpley , policy chair of the Federation of Small Businesses , say the FSB be " broadly supportive " of the Bill but add that " we be concerned about the administrative impact of the burden that will be impose on small business , and we be concerned about the cost . " Michael Kill , ceo of the Night Time Industries Association , say that " it be crucial to address the proportionality of the propose measure , within all setting . we must ensure that the balance between heighten security and practical implementation be carefully consider . " as my hon . friend know , I pilot the measure as shadow Minister on Second Reading . I welcome the Minister to his place and thank he for his usual courtesy . this be genuinely not a political point , but do my hon . friend agree that , with other measure currently burden small business such as increase in taxation , business rate and national insurance contribution , this amendment help because it allow venue to plan and make sure that not too much money be go out ? that apply particularly to charity and small venue . that be why the remit of the SIA must be check , and why this amendment should be back . I could not agree more . there be huge anxiety among business about challenge and pressure — whether the national insurance contribution increase on employer or the huge change to small business rate relief affect small business in leisure , hospitality and retail , slash it from 75 % to 40 % . these be challenging time , include for very small family business , and also , as my hon . friend point out , for the voluntary sector and many organisation that prop up our community and play a central role . by perfect this Bill , we can relieve those anxiety and allow those organisation to follow on with confidence and comply with the measure in the Bill . I would appreciate some reassurance from the Minister about how he expect to use the power to change daily penalty . I hope he will demonstrate that the ethos of the Bill be collaboration between the state and private organisation , not the establishment of an increasingly costly financial penalisation system . we believe that would help to settle any underlying anxiety and allow both the Government and venue to focus on work together to ensure that the roll - out of this Bill be the very good it can be . amendment 25 and 26 stop the Secretary of State change qualify tier amount by regulation . they be simply design to provide future certainty to organisation as they work to become compliant with the Bill . they would remove the power of the Secretary of State to lower the threshold for the standard duty premise and enhance duty premise from 200 and 799 individual respectively . the current qualification level have be determine after consultation and pre - legislative scrutiny . these be significant policy choice and I believe the Government have reach this position after listen to that feedback . as I have set out today , the industry and venue be actively supportive of the Bill and actively want to play their part in improve venue security . we worry about the uncertainty cause by the potential of the Secretary of State to change the threshold for the standard and enhanced duty premise in future . how be that power compatible with allow the industry to plan long term , in the knowledge that the qualifying criterion for each tier will not change ? we want to ensure that venue have the confidence to commit the require resource to adopt the provision of the Bill , know that the rule will not change suddenly . impact assessment have show the challenge that face different type of venue . small venue and low capacity premise such as place of worship , village hall and community centre show particular concern about the impact on fellow small business and their ability to meet the revise requirement within the small resource available to they . about four in 10 — or 39 % — of respondent from premise with a capacity of 100 to 299 agree that those responsible for premise within the standard tier should have a legal obligation to be prepare for a terrorist attack . nearly half — 46 % — disagree and say that only large premise should have a legal obligation . about half — 51 % — report that revise requirement would be difficult to take forward . six in 10 , or 58 % , be at least somewhat concerned that the cost of meet the standard tier requirement would affect their organisation ' s financial ability to continue operate . among those from place of worship or village hall , only around three in 10 agree that those responsible for premise within the standard tier should have a legal obligation to be prepare for a terrorist attack . More than 54 % of those from village hall and community centre , which typically have a small capacity than premise across other sector — 72 % have a capacity of 100 to 299 — disagree and say only large premise should have a legal obligation . over half of those from place of worship and village hall feel the revise requirement would be difficult to take forward , mainly due to the perceive burden in time and effort . I therefore ask the Minister in what circumstance he would envisage need to lower the floor for either standard or enhanced duty premise and what consultation would take place before the Government do so . do my hon . friend agree that proportionality be particularly important ? while clearly venue like the Manchester Arena should have a properly work out plan , it be inappropriate for village hall and church hall to worry about the cost and bureaucracy involve . can we have the light possible touch for those small community venue ? that be right . the community organisation that be affect , whether parish hall , village hall , church , or small business such as the local pub , be invaluable to , and sit at the heart of , our community , and it be essential that we protect they . there be a balance between what everyone who support the Bill want from these protection , be they on the Opposition or Government Benches , namely to prevent the most horrific atrocity , and ensure that those business and community organisation can continue to exist . the Bill ' s provision be appropriate for venue below the enhance tier . they be proportionate , low - cost and not onerous . they be prompt to encourage organisation to do the kind of thinking that they should do anyway to prevent terrorism or any kind of attack . the measure be not disproportionate at all , and the legislation be appropriate in that respect . I understand where the hon . Gentleman be come from . an exist regulatory body be be give an additional job ; there be no harm in come back after 18 month to review whether the provision be work and be fit for purpose . similarly , there be logic in the House have a say on the fee and penalty that might be apply , rather than that be delegate to the Secretary of State . those logical change could relieve some of the anxiety in the sector . everyone want the Bill to go forward and fulfil its objective of make our community safe , but some of the anxiety in the sector about unexpected and unintended consequence for community venue and small business be real , so let we relieve some of they by agree the amendment . I hope the shadow Minister will forgive I for intervene once again , but I express concern about the " responsible person " element at the Dispatch Box on Second Reading . as he have outline , small charity and voluntary sector body , such as theatre and community organisation , welcome the aim of the Bill , as do I , but when voluntary organisation be responsible for allocate someone who will be legally responsible to the Security Industry Authority , that spread fear among those organisation , give the bureaucracy that they already face . do he agree that we need to look carefully at how great a burden we put on theatre group , and in particular on voluntary community association , which will be subject to the regulation ? we need to reflect , take time , and review the measure in 18 month , include the regulation . many of our community and voluntary organisation already struggle to find the manpower to fulfil their function , and this be another function . its purpose be right , and it be right to take the legislation forward and provide these protection , but we have to consider the wide perspective and the proportionality for small venue , give the potential impact on community . it be not in my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , but I be church warden of a small parish church . Most parish church would probably come under the 200 - person limit , but the vast majority would be catch by 100 - plus . not only be there fear among volunteer who have to take on this responsibility , but significant risk of unintended consequence . volunteer may not be prepared to take on the responsibility , and as a result , vital community infrastructure space may close to the public . would that not be a terrible unintended consequence of this well - mean Bill ? my hon . friend be right . we look at the number — 100 and 200 — and think of organisation we know , and event that we have attend in church and parish hall . I use to be a Scout leader , and the paperwork , the burden and the challenge use to put we off , in many way , from fulfil some of our function . People who might have come along to help one day get slightly put off by the challenge and responsibility that come with do so . I could not agree more with my hon . friend . do the shadow Minister not welcome the fact that the Bill increase the capacity from 100 to 200 ? his government previously set the limit at 100 — the figure that he be so concerned about . I welcome the revision ; that be why we have scrutiny . the fact that the figure can be determine unilaterally be the concern . there be agreement across the House that it be right to take the Bill forward . we be look at what we can do at the edge to mitigate the impact for small venue , but I agree in principle with what the hon . Member say . I be particularly concerned about the Secretary of State or Minister have the power to reduce the number from 200 back to 100 by regulation . that be address by amendment 25 . do my hon . friend agree that in the absence of significant evidence or consultation to support such a move , 100 be essentially an arbitrary number ? why 100 , and not 125 , 150 or 175 ? do he agree that we need more evidence to support that regulation - make power be give to the Secretary of State ? do he therefore agree that amendment 25 be a sensible alternative ? I agree entirely . there be no reason why we should not bring that measure to the House for decision . there be no reason to delegate that power to the Secretary of State . it would be sensible to take that delegation out . we have just talk about the fact that some people think the number should be 100 , and other think it should be 200 . it would be logical to bring the measure back to the House , if require , in due course , and I hope the Minister agree . we all hope that the Bill be absolutely right — that be what we want — but there be nothing wrong with increase scrutiny . would it not be right for the Government to accept new clause 1 , so that we can ensure that there be a review ? through that , we can get the evidence , and then we will know whether we have get it right . that be entirely right . Most of the amendment be about look at what we can do around the edge of the Bill to mitigate the challenge for small community organisation and small business . we have to be careful . of course we want to work cross - party , and should be cognisant of small business , but on the other side of the debate , campaigner be worried that the Bill be already lean too much the other way , and we will start to lose proportionality if we adopt the shadow Minister ' s amendment . I slightly disagree . a body be take on this regulation . review this in 18 month to see whether it be work be sensible . keep the ability to make decision on number , rather than give it to the Secretary of State , be a logical way forward . we all want this Bill to work , and we all realise the meaningful and important reason why the Bill be bring forward , but we be talk about mitigation . all the amendment be fair , logical and sound in how they try to balance the two interest . we want to make all venue safe , whatever their scale or size , but we need to do so in a way that allow business and community organisation to carry on deliver , at the heart of our community . last week , along with Opposition colleague , I meet representative of a number of hospitality business across different sector . everyone want to make their venue more secure , and everyone acknowledge the importance of the legislation , but there be point to address on clarity and the uncertainty be cause . we have talk about the responsibility of volunteer , and where it start and end . some venue will have queue outside , and it be not clear how the legislation will work in that case . an 18 - month review be important , because it would allow we to look at whether the legislation be make people more safe and secure . do the shadow Minister agree ? my hon . friend be right . when it come to the Bill , the stake be high for small community organisation and small business , so I see no harm in review the regulation after 18 month , and in keep those power for the House , rather than delegate they to the Secretary of State . that be logical and make a lot of sense for many venue . it be the way forward . clause 2 ( 2 ) ( c ) , define the premise that will be cover by the legislation , state : " it be reasonable to expect that from time to time 200 or more individual may be present " . under the regulation , that might read " 100 or more " . come back to my experience as a member of the parish church , I would love there to be 100 or 200 people present , but the congregation be close to six or seven . however , the capacity of the church — the structure — be sufficient to take in 100 or 200 people . while on the face of it , the legislation seem reasonable , do my hon . friend share my concern that a facility that could welcome 199 people may not have the structure in place , or physically have the people available , to support the increase burden place on it by the Bill ? that would increase the risk of unintended consequence and closure . that would be deal with by amendment 25 . my hon . friend be entirely right . in voluntary organisation , man and woman who tend to do something else by day give their time to volunteer in the evening or at the weekend . they have other thing go on in their life . they will not necessarily be expert on the law surround venue and what go on in they , but from time to time — once a year , or once every two year — they will be expect to know about these regulation and to comply with they . there be logic in keep the number at the intend 200 , as well as in review the regulation . we would allow the regulatory body to come back on that point 18 month , in the review , when we would review those number . we be just say that these thing should not be delegate to the Secretary of State at this point . I welcome the progress of this important Bill . we know the danger of terrorism in this country for the constituent we represent . there have be 15 domestic terror attack since 2017 , as well as the tragic arena bombing . that exclude terrorism in Northern Ireland . there have also be 43 late - stage plot foil by the security service . we recently hear from the head of the Security Service about a 48 % increase in terror investigation in the last year alone , so the threat be absolutely real and it be always change . we have have various attack , include the marauding - style terrorist attack that we see so tragically here in London some year ago . the Bill be a crucial to make sure that premise , business and venue do what they can to keep people safe . we know from business and venue that they understand their obligation to their patron , whoever they might be , and they want to keep they safe . we have have a healthy debate about the Bill ' s provision . there have be a sensible , mature , cross - party discussion about what work and what be practicable . I pay tribute to Manchester city council for the exercise it undertake . it work with business to ensure that measure be both sensible and proportionate while keep people safe . across I think 10 session last year , and have speak to 700 business and 2 , 000 people , it go through some of the measure in the Bill , and business overwhelmingly support they . they understand the need for they , and that they be not onerous . those range from business as large as Printworks , which many people in Manchester will know , down to local restaurant and bar , and the response be incredibly positive . I say that because I want to reassure hon . member from across the House about the proportionality of the measure in the Bill . in fact , I will quote Gareth Worthington , the night - time economy officer at the Manchester business improvement district : " if a venue operator do not know how to evacuate their venue they should not be run that venue and if training can be provide to help make that evacuation safe then venue should grasp it with both hand . " on the threshold , we have arrive at a sensible place . we have a healthy debate in the Public Bill Committee on they , and I think they be reasonable . I reiterate that I think campaigner would perceive any tweaking of provision on the threshold or delegate power for the Secretary of State as a watering down of the Bill . will the hon . member give way ? I shall not , because I think we have touch on that point enough . finally , I pay tribute to my constituent Figen Murray for her bravery in champion these measure . no parent would ever want to have the name of their child on a law if they could help it , but she have work tirelessly to push forward these measure . I hope to see they enact . I recommend the Bill and thank the Minister for his hard work on it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I echo the hon . member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) : this have be a constructive , cross - party legislative process . I also pay tribute to the Security Minister for the way in which he have engage with I and my liberal Democrat colleague , cross - party . my comment on the Bill be make in that spirit . the purpose of the Bill , as well as new clause 2 , table by the Liberal Democrats , be clear . I be pleased that the House have be give the opportunity to champion Martyn ' s family and their campaign . the Bill draw clear lesson from the tragic 2017 attack and bring fresh commitment to protect life . martyn ' s law embody the courage and determination of the family of the victim who have campaign tirelessly to ensure that lesson be learn and such tragedy be prevent in the future . I also echo the comment of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , about Figen Murray , to whom I pay great tribute . she be a hugely inspirational campaigner . their voice have be instrumental in shape the Bill throughout this process . that be down to their resilience , and we as legislator have a duty to honour their effort by ensure that the Bill be as robust and effective as possible while avoid put any excessive burden on our already struggle business . as with all consideration of the House , we must remain balanced in our approach and carefully weigh up the safety of event - goer with pragmatic and realistic requirement . although the Bill be strong , it lack the proper provision to ensure that staff at venue — especially small venue that may be on the cusp of the threshold — be adequately equip and train to respond to threat . that be where new clause 2 come in . let we consider just a few of the small venue in my North Cornwall constituency such as the St Kew Inn , St Petroc ' s church , Haywood cider farm , the Bosvena Events Arts Theatre in Bodmin and the Old Inn — there be countless other — which host ticket event . some be likely to fall close to the 200 threshold , and other may even fall close to the upper 800 threshold and be consider enhance duty premise , yet many of the small venue be run by volunteer or community with little or no formal training in event management or public protection procedure . the new clause would address that issue directly by ensure that all venue staff and volunteer , whether they work in a pub , a church hall or a farm shop , would be equip with the right training to prepare they to keep the public safe . on that point , do the hon . Member not think that those volunteer in church hall and other small venue would be put off by the thought of have to go through a training course , implement a training plan and all the other aspect of new clause 2 ? while those may be worthy objective for large venue , do he really think they desirable for small venue ? do he not perceive the risk that they may put off volunteer who would otherwise freely give of their time ? I speak to many venue across my constituency this weekend , and actually they be more put off by the ambiguity of the Bill and the lack of specific that they will be require to undertake . new clause 2 would give they that clarity and ensure that they know exactly what be require of they under the Bill . I think that the volunteer side in particular be concern a lot of people . one thing that strike I about new clause 2 be that , give that these be often volunteer organisation , who would fund the training ? have there be think about who would pay for it and how much it would cost ? small venue like my village hall may struggle to make a couple of hundred pound a year , let alone be able to afford further training . I wonder if the hon . Member would enlighten I on how that may work . I suspect that that will be a question for the Minister when we come towards the end of the debate . it be certainly something that volunteer will seek clarity on so that they can know exactly what be require of they under the Bill . without adequate training , we will end up with just vague ask of they , and they will not know exactly how to carry out their duty under the legislation . with due respect , the hon . Gentleman say that the cost be a question for the Minister , but since this be his propose new clause , surely he should have some idea of the financial and other implication for the organisation that would have to comply with it . I certainly would not suggest , and neither would the Liberal Democrats , that the training fee should fall on small venue , but the Government should consider it so that there be clarity for those small venue . I hope that answer the right hon . member ' s question . the new clause cover evacuation procedure , monitor of premise , physical safety and security and the overall provision of protect life . it would also establish a full training implementation plan , with the Secretary of State regularly update Parliament to ensure that the right progress be be make . crucially , it would ensure that our business be fully support and give the clarity that they need . the public deserve to know that wherever they be — at a concert , a wedding or a local cider festival — staff be properly train to respond to such emergency . they should have confidence that venue be hold to a consistent standard of preparation and readiness . for the venue themselves , the new clause would greatly improve safety , and would provide clarity and consistency on the standard that they must meet under this law . of course , there be concern from many micro and small business about the financial impact and additional bureaucracy that these requirement may bring . that be why the new clause propose a practical training plan to minimise the financial burden , with scalable and specific training . I have already mention that I be a church warden of a small parish church , so I have practical experience . I also have other duty — I be the safeguard officer , because there be insufficient volunteer who be prepared to undergo the quite significant training need to maintain safeguard duty in that organisation . I accept that , give the Church of England ' s troubled history over the past 20 year , safeguard be a necessary part of modern life , but do the hon . Gentleman accept that the duty impose on volunteer be cumulative in their impact ? I can be a Member of Parliament , a church warden and a safeguard officer , but can I also be responsible for the additional cost and responsibility that he have in mind ? certainly , the intention of new clause 2 be not to be a burden on our small venue , but to do the opposite and make sure that they have clarity on what they be suppose to do , what their responsibility be and how they practically carry out the requirement contain in this legislation . I be glad to receive the promising indication of a commitment in writing by the Security Minister . he say that if the Bill be give Royal Assent , an implementation period of 24 month will be set . that will give venue the time to understand their new obligation , plan and prepare and , if need , provide training to staff . the Government promise that training will be supply by a number of expert security partner . I look forward to hear more detail on that . over the weekend , I meet various local venue in my North Cornwall constituency , such as the Sea View Farm Shop , which express concern over possible fencing requirement . its venue host small outdoor festival with between 1 , 500 and 2 , 000 attendee . it be similar in scale to the nearby Rock Oyster Festival , and can be contrast with much large event such as Boardmasters , which host over 60 , 000 people . could the Minister provide clarity on the requirement for outdoor event ? we be not seek to push the new clause to a vote , but we seek reassurance from the Minister today about training for staff and operator for venue big and small . new clause 1 , table by the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford , propose a review of the role of the Security Industry Authority as the regulator . we do not oppose a cost - benefit analysis of the role of the SIA , but we worry about the impact of additional responsibility on local government , which be already stretch to breaking point , without the accompany resource to deliver that . I welcome the intent to ensure efficiency and effectiveness , but I must stress the need for reassurance that small venue , such as the village hall that we have hear about and the community centre that , as the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) say , be often run by volunteer , will not be disproportionately impact . in North Cornwall , we have venue such as the John Betjeman Centre in Wadebridge , village hall in Padstow , Lewannick and St Mabyn and many more . I acknowledge amendment 25 and 26 to raise the minimum capacity threshold for standard and enhanced duty premise to 200 and 800 , respectively . these space be integral to our community yet they operate with limited resource , often run by volunteer , and can not shoulder excessive regulatory burden . any change must prioritise support and scalability for these organisation , so that they be equip to meet public protection requirement without be overwhelmed . this legislation will not be able to do that if it be too burdensome for business , which be not clear what their obligation really be . will the Minister confirm that the content of our new clause will be give due consideration ? keep everyone safe be the absolute priority , but by provide clear guidance and training we can avoid burden our already struggle local business , and ensure that they have the clarity that they need about the legislation . I would like to start by express my admiration for Figen Murray for her unwavering advocacy of this Bill , in memory of her son , Martyn . her defiant message to promote peace and positive change in Martyn ' s name have be a source of inspiration to we all . figen ' s strength and dedication in push for meaningful reform to prevent such devastating attack be truly commendable . her courage and commitment continue to drive this important work , and we be deeply grateful for her contribution . as a former police officer , I believe that this legislation represent an important step forward in improve our national security framework and in provide our community with great protection from the evolve threat of terrorism . the Bill be need as the level of threat remain complex , evolve and enduring . by implement strong security measure , provide clear responsibility for venue owner and enhance co - ordination between relevant agency , this legislation will help safeguard the public in place where they gather , work and celebrate . in an increasingly unpredictable world , it be vital that we remain proactive to protect our community and strengthen the resilience of our society . the Bill be a crucial part of that effort . by designate a person responsible for consider the risk and for plan a response in the event of a terrorist attack , we be take a proactive and structured approach to security . the role be about not only manage immediate response , but foster a culture of vigilance , communication and preparedness within community and organisation in general . the legislation will ensure that our response be as effective as possible . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and I thank he for his service in the police . three victim of the Manchester Arena bombing be from my constituency — Sorrell Leczkowski , Courtney Boyle and Wendy Fawell — which be why I be so supportive of the Bill . he be talk about the duty of venue and their manager , but do he agree that it would be helpful for the Government to give clear guidance about their responsibility for outdoor and public space when manage the particular regulatory framework that the Bill will create ? I wholeheartedly agree that that be a very important part of the legislation . what have be strike about the debate so far be the extent of cross - party consensus on this matter . my worry be that the Bill contain a set of proposal that we might be support because they be something that we deem possible to do , whereas we may be neglect some thing that be hard to do . in the inquiry into the bombing , several aspect of the story be very concerning , from the way the asylum system work through to the Prevent programme . while 90 % of MI5 ' s counter - terrorism casework be islamist , the late datum show that the number of Prevent referral for young people suspect of islamist radicalisation have fall from 3 , 706 in 2016 - 17 to only 781 in 2022 - 23 . as a former police officer , do the hon . Gentleman agree that we have to do something to ensure that Prevent be properly target at the real threat we face ? I wholeheartedly agree ; anything to support Prevent training in school and education be very important . the legislation will ensure that our response be as effective as possible and minimise the risk to life and infrastructure . it be essential that everyone , from leadership to staff member , understand the importance of this role and support the planning and implementation of all safety protocol . however , the Bill be not just about secure physical space ; it be about foster a sense of security and trust in the place where we work , gather and celebrate . at a time when the threat of terrorism can cause widespread fear and uncertainty , know that protective measure be in place allow people to go about their daily life with great confidence . it be about protect not just our building , but the social fabric that hold our community together . be a member of the Bill Committee be insightful . it be an opportunity to closely examine the provision of this important legislation and engage in constructive discussion with my colleague , other stakeholder and those sadly affect by terrorism . in Committee sitting , I be pleased to hear that various business and venue be already implement the standard of the Bill in their operation , which be intend to ensure that public premise and event be well prepared so that if the unthinkable happen , they be ready to respond . the response to the Bill highlight the commitment of many organisation to the safety and security of the public , and their recognition of the importance of proactive measure in the face of potential threat . it demonstrate a share understanding that protect people from harm be the responsibility of not just the Government , but everybody in our society . the Bill seek to formalise and build on those effort , ensure that security practice be consistent , comprehensive and capable of meet the evolve nature of the terrorist threat . I acknowledge the concern raise during this debate and in Committee , which I believe have be address to make the Bill more effective , fair and responsive to the challenge at hand . as we move forward , it be crucial to remember that this be a shared responsibility ; as I say , the Government can not act alone . the hon . Gentleman talk about share responsibility , and how it be the responsibility of we all to protect each other . as a former police officer , be he not worried about a degree of vigilantism , with untrained people take the law into their own hand and do thing that perhaps , as a police officer , he think police officer would be well place to do ? that be a fair point , but I be not worried that the Bill will cause that . I think that the wide general public will allow the police to deal with the matter in hand when they need to , but there may be , as I mention , several opportunity to act on this together . public venue , business , local authority and community themselves must all work in tandem to create a robust , unify front against terrorism . by integrate effort across sector , we make our society strong , more resilient and able to respond more effectively to threat while ensure the safety of every individual . terrorism be not a static threat — it constantly involve , and so must our response . the Bill will ensure that we remain ahead of emerge risk . as we have see in recent year , attack be become more unpredictable , more dispersed and hard to anticipate . the legislation will give we the tool and the framework need to adapt and respond to those ever - change threat . the legislation be about more than policy ; it be about the future we want to build for our child , our family and our community . we owe it to future generation to ensure that they inherit a society that value safety , peace and resilience . by take action now , we lie the foundation for a strong , safe tomorrow . I call Paul Holmes . thank you for your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , as I have to nip upstairs to sit in a Bill Committee programming session . I be delighted to be here to speak on this legislation . as I mention early to the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , I have the privilege of work alongside the Minister when I be the shadow Home Affairs Minister who take the Bill through second Reading . I say again to the Minister , and to the Home Secretary , that I be a big fan of his , as he know . that be for genuine purpose : for the way he treat I as the shadow Home Affairs Minister at the time , with informal consultation and phone call , and for genuinely open up the spirit of cross - party work on this legislation . I congratulate he and pay tribute to he , his Department and all official work on the legislation for make sure the opposition be involve . I be very pleased that he be in his place this evening so that I can thank he for that spirit of co - operation . we know that the Bill be a key piece of legislation and a commitment that the Conservatives make at the last general election , and I be delighted that the Government have take it forward . as he will know , I speak of some concern on Second Reading that I want to chase the Minister on , if he might be so bold as to try to answer they at the end . I have a number of concern that I will speak about briefly , as you will be delighted hear , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can not promise to be too brief , but I will be as brief as I can . you will have to excuse I if I be out of breath — I do run upstairs and then back downstairs to get here in time , and I be not the fit person in the Chamber . I pay tribute to Figen Murray and Martyn ' s family . as I say on Second Reading , it should not require circumstance such as those we have see to bring about a change in legislation . however , Figen Murray can rest assure that Martyn have play a huge role in change the law for the good , and Martyn ' s family have a right to be proud of that legacy . I rise to speak in favour of new clause 1 and amendment 25 and 27 , which stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) . we all support the aim of the Bill and want to see the legislation succeed . we want to make venue across the country safe and to ensure they have the correct apparatus in place so that people who use hospitality or other venue across the country , of all shape and size , can do so with confidence that a system and a regulatory framework be in place . we want people to be safe when they use those venue . my constituent expect that . I expect that for myself and for my family . just last night , my family and I use a hospitality venue for a good couple of pint . that will be one of the venue cover by this regulatory framework . sit there , look forward at the parliamentary agenda , I think how venue such as that one have a number of concern . those be the thing I want to talk about this evening . in our constituency , we have voluntary sector organisation , theatre group , community centre and charity of all shape and size who volunteer every day to do their good by their community , to represent the community and to work for the community in the good way possible . I remain concerned that , as have be outline by a number of my hon . friend , include the shadow Minister , there remain an undue burden that will be place on those organisation , because of some of the environmental factor — I wonder how to put that , as I do not want this speech to be political at all — that have be place on they in recent month . will my hon . friend speak for a moment about the situation face small football club ? they often have many people turn up week after week to watch their team play and be on a tiny budget with tiny margin , no money to spare and no money available for training . in such circumstance , surely those club will be really hard do by under some of the provision in the Bill . my hon . friend be correct . my constituency have a number of small football organisation , some of which be subject to legislation that be currently go through the Lords more slowly than we would necessarily expect a piece of legislation to progress . the income of small football group will be the focus of that Bill . however , my hon . friend be right : not only do this Bill cover small football venue and football club , but it cover all sort of organisation , some of which I have mention . there be small community theatre , for example , which be the backbone of many small community . People want to go to they with their family and watch amateur dramatic . the play be sometimes well than in the west end — I have see they — and the scale of some venue mean that they will be in the low tier under the Bill , but they have very small income . there be also charity with very small income that have be affect by fiscal decision in the Budget . I assure the Minister that I be not be political , but as the impact assessment show , and as the constituent I have speak to have say , many charity will be affect by increase cost through their national insurance contribution and the different taxation that will come in . from what I have read , the average cost for small venue will be £ 330 a year and the cost for large organisation will be £ 5 , 000 a year . those be the late figure that I can find , but perhaps the Minister will clarify that additional cost of £ 330 a year for small venue , because to many organisation , that will place a big burden on they . I meet representative of small theatre recently who be concerned that they have not be invite to a roundtable with the Minister to discuss the implication for the sector . I would be grateful if he outline whether the Government intend to meet they , base on their concern about the Bill . I will bring my comment within the scope of new clause 1 . give the issue that I have outline , I think the proposal by my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford to have a review process for the SIA be perfectly sensible . when we set up a new organisation that have some kind of independence , regulatory enforcement capacity or management capacity , it seem purely sensible that after the period set in the new clause , we look to see whether its action have be proportionate , whether there have be overreach and whether it be do its job properly . have it take the full responsibility outline in the legislation ? member may not think that it be overwork ; it might be that it be underworke and we need to give it more responsibility in the long run . it seem perfectly sensible for the Government and the Minister to come to the Floor of the House . they should see new clause 1 in the spirit in which it be intend . opposition Front Benchers , I and all my colleague want the Bill to succeed , but we want it to be proportionate . when we set up an organisation with such responsibility and an organisational jurisdiction , we want to ensure that it be review , that it be conduct itself and take its responsibility seriously , and that the system be work . do my hon . friend agree that new clause 1 be not about a presumption of find fault , but about ensure that the proposal work correctly ? it be so important that the regulator and the regulatory role work perfectly so that the Bill can be implement in the way that be expect . my hon . friend be reasonable and a very good colleague in the way she carry out her duty in this House , so it will come as no surprise to hear that I absolutely agree with she . I do say that about some Government Members , so I be not be partisan — [ interruption . ] Most of the time . however , my hon . friend make a good point . that be why the Minister should see new clause 1 in the spirit in which it be intend . we do not want to disrupt the passage of the Bill . we do not want to disrupt the good intention and the outcome that everybody , on both side of the House , want . as a Conservative , I naturally think that the state should not be big or oversized . when we set up organisation such as this , it be natural that the House and Members will want scrutiny function to make sure that the organisation act within the spirit of the law and within its jurisdiction and responsibility . I think that be perfectly reasonable . for I , when we think about create the regulator , it be about ensure that it be effective . it need to be staff and fund appropriately , and we need to ensure that it do the job that the House expect it to do . the idea of have a system to report back be important when we make these provision . when my hon . friend be shadow Minister , do he give any thought to how many business come within scope , and whether there be resource in the regulator to even provide those assessment , so that we can make sure that it be hold accountable and that this be effective legislation ? I would like to say that I have give that great thought , but as hon . member across the House will know , after we come back in July , my tenure as a shadow Home Affairs Minister be rather short — [ interruption . ] I thank the Minister , who say , " Shame " . that be after be shadow Northern Ireland Minister , shadow Foreign Affairs Minister and other Ministers , too . but I take this piece of legislation very seriously . the Government should make that decision , but I hope that the SIA be properly resource and that it conduct its duty in the right way . that be why I think new clause 1 should be accept this evening . I do not want to overstay my welcome , but I will speak briefly about one of the concern that I raise on Second reading about the responsible person element of the Bill . I remain seriously concerned about this , and it be also mention by my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) . although I accept the scope of the Bill and the impact that it will have on the statute book , many organisation , particularly during cost of live crisis and at this time of year , rely on their volunteer , and if we place undue and burdensome regulation on they , volunteer will simply not come forward and be in the voluntary sector . charity be go through a difficult time . I remain concerned that if we tip slightly too much towards be overburdensome on those very small organisation , we will see a dearth of people in the voluntary sector . no one want to discourage people from volunteer — we do not , and I know the shadow Minister and the Minister do not — but I worry that the threshold set out in the Bill will have unintended consequence . I ask the Minister to look seriously at new clause 1 and amendment 25 and 26 , which be table by my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford . many will be happy to know that I be draw my comment to a close . however , I be personally delighted that this Bill be before the House in record time , five month after the Government come into office . I hope that the Minister will see that the opposition be work , and will continue to work , in a constructive way to get this on to the statute book . it be sad that , in order to have a relatively major piece of legislation change so rapidly , we have to go through the atrocity that we see in Manchester and terrorist attack around the United Kingdom . however , I know that the legacy that Martyn leave be one that his family will be greatly proud of , as this country should be . this be a mainstream , major piece of legislation , and I hope that by work together , we will ensure that people who go to venue for many year to come will be protect , and they will be protect in Martyn ' s name . I welcome the fact that the discussion in the House today show real cross - party support for the aim , principle and objective of the Bill , and that the amendment focus only on nuance and more technical aspect . that show that we be all unite in try to achieve this goal and in prevent tragedy such as that which happen in Manchester from happen again . in try to understand those nuance and where the more technical side should be draw , it be useful to reflect on the legislation ' s key dimension and advantage . first , obviously , it make terrorist attack less likely . the terrorist threat be substantial and we know that it be change . it have go from large - scale infrastructure and iconic site to much more workaday , normal location . the most recent terrorist attack that we tragically see in this country be an attack on a child ' s dance class . it be clear that the terror threat be evolve and we must evolve with it , which be why the Bill be important , but it be also important because it minimise the death and destruction that result from a terrorist attack . terrorist attack may still happen despite our good effort , and it be important for we to plan for that eventuality and make the right decision in order to be ready when they do happen . the former President Obama ' s Under - Secretary of State for Homeland Security , the Harvard professor Juliette Kayyem , have talk of the " boom " of a terror moment or crisis , and divide plan into " pre - boom " and " post - boom " . Pre - boom be what must be do to prevent an event from take place , but it be equally important to plan for the post - boom moment . we must ensure that even those run small venue have do some thinking in advance of an attack . what be the escape route ? who need to have the key ? what happen if they send people in this direction rather than that direction ? the Bill incorporate a distinction between enhanced and non - enhance tier , and that too be important . in my constituency we put on some of the big and good event in the world . I be utterly confident that those in the football and rugby stadium and theatre who be in charge of security planning do all this thinking anyway , but there be many small venue where it have not occur to people that that be necessarily their role , but which be now in the line of fire . it be important for people to recognise that responsibility , because the public have a right to expect it . the Bill codify what should be happen anyway . we must bear that in mind as we decide where to set the threshold , who fall in or outside scope , and what level of burden we expect organisation and venue to face . in Committee , it be reassure to hear several of my concern be allay . one of they have already be discuss , namely the impact on business and the potential for a burden . there be no deny that something of a burden will be place on some organisation where no one have do any thinking or preparation for a potential terrorist or other attack , but the Bill contain very proportionate element that do not impose much of an extra burden . its requirement be intuitive , they be not onerous , they be straightforward and they be commonsensical . as I say in an intervention early , they be essentially prompt for organisation to do the kind of thinking that we would hope they be do already to avoid an attack . that not only avoid attack , but mitigate their impact . I entirely agree with my hon . friend about the proportionality of the Bill , which we discuss in Committee . the word " burden " have be use a great deal this afternoon . in his evidence to the Committee , Andy Burnham say : " I just think that we can not talk ourselves into a sort of thing where it be all too big a burden . I can tell you from experience : a terrorist attack be a massive burden on a city and what it do challenge everybody at every level — and that be ongoing . like Figen say , Manchester will never be the same again after what happen . it have change we but it have strengthen we and make we more united , and as I say , I do not want any other city to go through that . " – – [ Official Report , Terrorism ( Protection of Premises Public Bill Committee , 29 October 2024 ; c . 16 , Q11 . ] do my hon . friend agree that this be a proportionate Bill , and that the burden of a terrorist attack far outweigh any burden cause by its provision ? absolutely . there be a small element of burden in the Bill , but it be light - touch and proportionate , and the alternative scenario be significantly more burdensome . in my own city of Edinburgh , the impact of a terrorist attack and of people not feel secure in the aftermath could be destructive not just to the life affect by the attack , but to the whole economy on which our city be base , which be event - focus . it be right for we to draw that distinction , and to seek to get the balance exactly right . the hon . Gentleman be make an eloquent speech about the " protect " element of the counter - terrorism strategy . it be clear from the Manchester attack inquiry report that the asylum system be a big part of the story . Salman Abedi and his brother Hashem — who plan the attack and prepare the explosive , and be as guilty of the attack as Salman — be bear in Britain to libyan asylum seeker parent . their father , Ramadan Abedi , be a member of the libyan Islamic Fighting Group , an islamist militia . he be grant asylum in this country , but travel back and forth between Britain and Libya throughout that time , which be a story that we often hear about people who be grant asylum here . give the number of people who come here illegally and across the channel , whom we have no ability to investigate and on whom we can not make check , how do the hon . Gentleman think we might reform the asylum system to prevent such thing from happen again ? I be struggle to understand quite how that fall within the scope of this debate , but it be important to discuss the issue of how we deal with terrorism . as we have see in the history of this country , terrorist attack can be both foreign and domestic . they can be homegrown , or they can come from overseas . I have talk about the need to prepare for an attack before it happen , so that mitigation can be introduce . they can be long term , which mean look at where the threat be emanate from , or they can be immediately in advance of an attack , which mean introduce security measure . my argument , however , be that the benefit of the Bill relate to what happen after the attack have take place . we need to help the small venue that now find themselves within the scope of terrorist attack to prepare for those attack . it be not a question of who commit the offence , but a question of how they be prepared to deal with that event . I be fortunate enough to listen to the hon . Gentleman ' s Westminster Hall debate on the Edinburgh fringe and its success around the world . that be a prime example of where the Bill might be helpful . have the hon . Gentleman give any thought to how those small venue can work together ? if they share good practice , that can create an environment of security . I wonder whether the fringe organisation themselves have think about this , give that they be , by their very nature , likely to be a target . share good practice may help to strengthen the entire environment when people visit it . that intervention be slightly more in scope and be also about Edinburgh , so I be happy to take it . the hon . Gentleman be right . indeed , in advance of the Bill Committee debate and the debate that we be have now , I speak to Edinburgh city council and to some of the event organiser , who tell I that it be exactly because Edinburgh have become a place where fringe event take place regularly that these consideration have be normalise . our city have put a lot of the necessary infrastructure in place , along with the thinking and the organisational requirement — and there be also a corporate memory between the small venue — to cope with terrorist event . as Andy Burnham point out in his evidence , Edinburgh be one of the national leader on this front . however , I recognise that not every community have that advantage , which be why the Bill will extend to other community the measure that already benefit mine . the hon . Member say early that these be " prompt " , and that what we should consider be what happen after an attack . what be worry be that the Bill go beyond that . it talk about occasion on which it be suspect that a terrorist offence might take place or be take place . that be not an " after " . the Bill create an obligation for those who be in charge of the event in question to prevent individual from enter . before an event or while it be happen , there be a security obligation on some of these small group to prevent people from enter the premise . that be not a prompt ; it be a huge burden on the organiser . the right hon . Gentleman make a really important point . again , have be on the Public Bill Committee , my argument be that the Bill be proportionate . that take I to a concern that I have when we begin legislative scrutiny , and on which I be reassure in the Committee evidence session . my concern be that in the aftermath of a terrorist attack , a staff member , an official or somebody responsible for compliance with the Bill might find themselves in the eye of the storm . we know how high emotion run , and about the all - too - human urge to seek someone to blame , even unfairly , in the aftermath of an event , but we hear in evidence from council official , and from the people who run event and who will be bring into scope , that they do not consider the Bill a burden for they , for several reason . first , they would already find themselves in that situation . the legislation do not cause that ; a terrorist attack cause that . actually , this legislation make a terrorist attack less likely . secondly , they be already in the eye of the storm for other reason , such as ensure fire safety and crowd control . thirdly , they say that this would be good legislation for they because not only be they already affect , but it equip they to deal with terrorism . the Bill do not create the responsibility ; it equip they to deal with it . that be why the Bill be proportionate and good . I will make my final comment , because I be test everyone ' s patience . it be good that the legislation use the capacity of the venue to identify whether it fall in scope of the provision . it be important to calculate capacity base on actual usage , rather than historical attendance figure . it be also important that the Bill incorporate the " reasonably practicable " test , which allow venue and premise to work with their specific circumstance and idiosyncrasy . that be an important component of this legislation and will make sure that it work effectively . I be hearten to see that , across the House , we all agree on the objective and thrust of this Bill , and the debate be about finely balanced and nuanced judgment . in the evidence session , we hear compelling evidence of the Bill ' s necessity , and we hear argument for the threshold to be set more loosely . Most evidence suggest that they should be set more rigidly and more strictly , and I be pleased to see that the Government have attempt to draw a coherent distinction between the argument that we hear . the true success of this legislation will be if we never hear about it again . sadly , it come too late for the victim of the Manchester bombing , but if we set the correct threshold in this legislation , and pass it , we can ensure that this be the last time we have to hear about it . I look forward to the other contribution to the debate . unfortunately , whether we like it or not , terrorist threat be now a way of life , be they lone - wolf attack , aggression and poisoning by Russia , attack by terrorist group from across the world , or iranian attack on those who support a free Iran . such attack focus our attention on where we be . it be good to see the Minister in his place , and I look forward to his comment . I wish to be constructive in my comment , and I have a few question to ask . hopefully , the Minister can give I some reassurance . in Northern Ireland , terrorist attack be the norm for some 30 - odd year . I declare an interest : I serve in the Ulster Defence Regiment for three year , and in the Territorial Army for 11 and a half year . why be it that when my fellow soldier in the Ulster Defence Regiment and my part - time colleague the Territorial Army go to a restaurant or caf é , they seek out a place where they could watch everything that be happen ? they could see who be come in and who be go out , and they have an escape route , so that they could get out quickly . that be the life that we lead . in this debate , we be ask our church , our charity , our missionary group and those who run community hall to consider thing of which they have no experience . I be not say that critically ; I be say it observationally , because I want they to be aware . when the gallant Minister get the call to serve in uniform , he answer it . I put on the record our thank to he for do that , which tell we a lot about the Minister and his psyche . I look back at some of the atrocity and I be remind of the Darkley massacre , in which the Irish National Liberation Army burst into a church and kill a number of people who be attend — innocent people . have it not be for the bravery of some of the people on the door , more probably would have be kill . I think of Tullyvallen Orange hall , near Newry , where the IRA kill a number of Orangemen , simply because they be Orangemen . the point I be make be that that be our life in Northern Ireland , and now we be ask our church , our charity and other group across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to look at provide well security . we be ask people with no experience to do that — people who have never consider there to be any need to do so — but we be do it for a purpose . we all support this legislation . I want to put on the record that I support it , and I understand the reasoning behind it . we be all incredibly concerned about the Manchester atrocity ; it be an example of what we have to try to stop . I completely understand that we be ask people to consider something that they have never experience or have to consider , but be that not what we do with fire regulation ? with great respect to the hon . Gentleman , this be not about fire regulation ; it be about make sure that nobody die , which be different . it be much , much more than fire regulation , which require people to check whether an extinguisher be work . this Bill be about make sure that nobody come in to kill anybody , so it be a different scenario . I respect the hon . Gentleman , but we have to get a bit of focus . I be remind of the community hall where the Rev . Robert Bradford be kill . the caretaker be on the door when the IRA come . they shoot the caretaker and the reverend , and his plaque be at the back of this Chamber . I be ever mindful of his courage and the stand that he take . these be the thing that we deal with . we be not well than anybody else , but these be the thing that we have face down the year . I want to focus on church . on Second Reading , I speak about Northern Ireland ' s unfortunate experience of these matter , and about the need for church and place of worship to have a plan in place . I make it my business to go and talk to my church and to get their thought . they want to be part of the process , so we need to see how we can help they . I note that a few of my question have be ask by other hon . member , so I will restrict my remark to church ' question about their role and responsibility . I ask my question constructively . on new clause 2 , which I understand will not be move tonight , I have speak to a number of church and key holder in my constituency , and they have all tell I that they include terrorism plan in their annual child protection training , which they undertake at their own cost . those be massive step for people who may have face some of these thing in the past , but who suddenly find themselves throw into the cauldron because of where they be . one church highlight that it run a special awareness event after the Southport atrocity in recognition that the church hall , where most of the adult gather , be a different building from the one use for church event . I just want to understand how the process will work . this hyper - awareness be good as long as it be not drive by fear . I want to focus on that fear . I think it be the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) who refer to the fear that some people experience on these issue . in church service and meeting , where there be child and elderly people present , or in community group meeting , we do not normally have to deal with these thing , but now we have to , because it be important . the legislation be important . that be why the Minister be bring it forward , and why the House will support it . we need to ensure that the large venue and church have support , so that there be no fear — just a plan of action . People can focus on the fear and become incredibly worried , or they can focus on a plan of action to ensure that if something happen , they can stop it . that be where I wish to focus . I will give the example of queen ' s hall in Newtownards in my constituency , which can hold about 300 people . the event that I have be to there be nearly all charity event . it hold charity event , church event and fundraising event for missionary organisation , and they all galvanise a lot of people and bring they in . my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) refer to the onus be on the organisation . I always try to be constructive , and I ask the Minister constructively what that will mean for how such place function , and how they will focus on look after the people . I also ask for clarity on the help that church can expect to receive on training , to ensure that they be compliant with the standard tier expectation . they be not say that they will not do what the Bill ask . they will ; that be not the issue . I be just think about how we can help those church , charity group and other to gain the experience that they will clearly need . will funding be make available to the charitable sector for the provision of training and assistance ? will a dedicated professional be available to church on this issue ? will they check that church be compliant and have a fit - for - purpose plan of action ? that be my request on behalf of the church that have speak to I . we must remember that church can be largely self - governing , and the small church outside the mainstream of the Presbyterians , the Anglicans , the Methodists and the Roman Catholics do not have body to break this down for they . I be ask on behalf of those small church . I attend a small church — the baptist church — but I be also think of the Elim church and the Brethren hall , of which my Strangford constituency have a great many , with large congregation . I make these query in a constructive fashion , and I know that the Minister will give the answer , not just to I but to everyone in the House . I too have lot of church in my constituency , and while I fully support the legislation , I do worry about some of the rural church . there be a risk of a fine , if they be not compliant . do that mean that there be a risk that those venue , which be already under stress , would not be able to open ? I hope that be not the case , and that the Minister can allay some of my fear , but give how the legislation be write , that could be a prospect . that would be very damaging for many of the rural church in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . the hon . Member have make his point very well , and I be sure that the Minister will answer it . I just want to make sure that the church , the charity , the missionary group and the community group across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be able to meet , and that they get the necessary help to ensure that normal life continue . the church all need to know what to do and when . it take I a long time to be able to talk about the Southport stabbing , because they leave horror in the mind of every one of we . they shock many on the mainland , but in Northern Ireland they recall to our memory horrific attack and the day of have man at our door during a service . time have change , and so too have procedure , but we still have enough trauma to recognise the danger . the church and charity group tell I that they want to be equip , and to be able to respond . this legislation call for the church and the charity to be equip . I be ask the Government , and in particular the Minister , to ensure that there be help and support , in case the unthinkable do take place . this legislation be a fitting tribute to Martyn Hett and the life of 21 other that be tragically cut short in the 2017 Manchester Arena attack . it be also a testament to the tireless effort of Martyn ' s mother , Figen Murray , who have campaign with such dignity and determination to ensure that no family endure the pain that hers have suffer . this Bill be about increase resilience for we as a country . it seek to make our public space safe by require premise and event to take proportionate , practical step to prepare for and mitigate the impact of a terrorist attack . it be about ensure that if the unthinkable happen , life be save and harm be reduce . I speak with personal conviction on this matter . have serve in a counter - terror role , I have see at first hand the devastating consequence of terrorism and the critical importance of the prior preparation that this Bill lay out . it be essential that our law and system keep pace with an ever - evolve risk . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that Manchester , in a way , stimulate or catalyse this legislation . it be big than that , but it be no more tragic , for it could not possibly be , as he have describe . he be also right to say that terrorist be become more adaptable , so we have to adapt the way we deal with they . legislation be part of that . it be difficult , because legislation take a long time to perfect , if properly scrutinise in this House . the amendment that have be table today be an attempt to improve the Bill , not to frustrate it . do he agree that the Minister and the Government will need to regularly review the provision of the legislation — there be reference in the Bill to review , guidance and so on — and that that will become an ongoing part of how we deal with that increase adaptability on the part of those who seek to do we harm ? I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . any threat that this country face be continuously review by the Ministry of Defence , MI5 , the police and the Government , and we adapt our approach to suit . that bring I to the fact that since 2017 , MI5 and the police have disrupt 43 late - stage attack , yet we have see 15 domestic terror attack in this country . these incident underline the ongoing and difficult nature of the threat . I be sure the whole House will agree that we have the fine intelligence service in the world , and we owe it to they to enable their work as much as we possibly can from this place . this Bill be another step towards achieve that . the approach it propose be both practical and proportionate for small and large venue . I commend the Government for engage widely in the development of the Bill and for work with business , local authority and security expert to ensure that it be both effective and proportionate . it be right that we in this House support the Bill , and in do so , we send a clear message that we will not only remember those we have lose but act decisively to protect those we serve . Mention have be make during the course of this debate of cross - party consensus and what a good thing that be . in some sense that be absolutely right . we should have absolute cross - party consensus on honour the memory of Martyn Hett and all those who be kill and injure in the Manchester Arena attack in May 2017 , but I raise a note of caution because sometimes when we stop be adversarial in this place , we create legislation that be not as good as it could be . that be particularly the case where we have a very emotive issue such as this , and where there be a huge amount of personal sympathy across all the party in the House . there be a risk that extreme circumstance provoke a natural reaction of say , " something must be do . this have to be prevent from ever happen again , " and we end up with bad law . there be a good example of this risk in the Bill ' s progression from its development under the previous Administration , through the election and out the other side . the initial intention of clause 2 be that the standard duty would apply to premise with a capacity to welcome 100 - plus people . in my view , this would have have a wholly disproportionate impact on the kind of community building that I represent as a church warden , as well as on the village hall that we have already discuss . pretty much every village hall have the capacity to accommodate 100 people . every church , bar the very small chapel , can expect to welcome 100 people at a wedding or funeral from time to time . there be a tiny , infinitesimally small risk of terrorism in these typically rural area , yet the previous Administration ' s Bill would have impose very significant cost and time commitment on volunteer . I have already mention a couple of time that I be a church warden and , again , I emphasise the risk of unintended consequence when we be all so keen to get on that we do not challenge each other . to reassure my hon . friend on that subject , he will understand that those of we who have serve on the Intelligence and Security Committee be fearless in hold Ministers to account , as this Minister will no doubt find out , and similarly fearless in challenge the agency , which do such a wonderful job for we . he be right that the agency need to be question appropriately and scrutinise fully . on my hon . friend ' s second point , about proportionality , it be , of course , right that our response to risk measure the real character of that risk and be proportionate to it . I be grateful for my right hon . friend ' s intervention , and I be reassure by his comment . in a previous life , I be a barrister specialise in health and safety risk and risk management , and I be later the manage director of the leisure company Go ape — member might not have hear of it — and be responsible for the risk management of over 1 million customer a year . we could have kill every single one of they , so I be deeply familiar with the appropriate mechanism for risk management . one risk that have to be take into account be that , if the response be too great or too onerous for the assess risk , people might not think it be reasonable , lead to omission . effective risk management require mitigation to be put in place that bear some relation to the severity of the anticipated adverse event multiply by its likelihood . I be very concerned that the previous Administration ' s initial proposal that these duty should apply to premise with a capacity of as few as 100 people would have break that association between a reasonable response and the assess risk . I be therefore grateful and impress that the Government have listen and change clause 2 ( 2 ) ( c ) to raise the standard duty threshold to a capacity of 200 . to my mind , that seem a reasonable compromise to protect small facility , which be , of course , most likely to rely entirely on volunteer , and be unlikely to have the financial capacity to undertake the kind of pay - for training suggest by the Liberal Democrat new clause 2 or to have enough volunteer who be prepared to accept this additional burden on their free time . I think this strike the right balance . however , I be concerned that paragraph ( a ) in clause 32 introduce a power , through regulation , to reduce the figure back down to 100 without give a reason . why be that ? I therefore support new clause 25 and 26 , which would set minimum threshold of 200 for the standard duty and 500 for the enhance duty . a cross - party approach have take the Bill this far , and it be important that that approach be maintain . I join other Members in pay tribute to Figen Murray for the tenacity and courage with which she have campaign — a campaign that have do so much to bring we to this point . any of we who have be touch , even indirectly , by a terrorist attack know the pain , the loss and the shock . that pain be only make bad if there be a suspicion that anything , no matter how slight , might have be do to have avoid or reduce the harm do . in fight this campaign , Mrs Murray really have do Martyn ' s memory proud . as have be obvious throughout this debate , there be a huge amount of consensus on the need for the measure in this Bill . it be a good Bill . the draft Bill before the election be a good draft , it be improve by pre - legislative scrutiny , and the Bill that this Government introduce and that have come out of Committee be well . the decision before we tonight be not whether we want these measure , because I think we agree , without exception , that we do . the decision before we be what can be do to make this the very good Bill it can be — one that provide the protection that be so clearly need , as we hear from witness in the Committee ' s evidence session and throughout the debate around the Bill , both inside and outside this House , without put an unnecessary burden on those venue that do not need it for the purpose that we seek . it be precisely because this Bill have broadly strike the right note that I rise to support new clause 25 and 26 , table in the name of the shadow Minister and the shadow Home Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) respectively . in do so , I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests relate to hospitality , although I intend to speak primarily not on the hospitality sector , but on the voluntary sector and volunteer - run venue . I be think , in particular , of a venue in the constituency I represent until this year ' s general election . the Brierley Hill Civic be a medium - sized venue in the Black Country and , about a decade ago , an asset transfer process be start to transfer it from Dudley council to Dudley council for voluntary service . over that time , Dudley CVS have do a fantastic job — a really professional job in every sense of the word — in provide a first - class venue for the area . it will typically host a few event each year that top 500 attendee , although they do not reach as high as 800 . the standard duty in this Bill be absolutely appropriate for a venue like Brierley Hill Civic . the concern be about how Dudley CVS , which be primarily run by volunteer , would be able to fulfil the enhanced duty if the threshold be suddenly lower , take the venue into the enhance duty category . that would cause they great difficulty on a practical level as well as a financial level , because as a non - profit - make organisation , they have to balance the book . the threshold of 800 people be right , because it will mean that venue like Brierley Hill Civic will not get drag into have to deal with onerous burden . however , clause 32 could see such venue face burden , even in a hypothetical situation , that they be ill - equipped to carry out . I be worried about the impact those measure could have on decision make by venue run by the voluntary sector , such as Brierley Hill Civic , about potentially invest to expand capacity to 500 or more . such venue may think that a future Secretary of State could use the power in clause 32 to lower the threshold , so that such investment , at the same time as cost money , would lead to additional burden . the Minister for Security say that extensive consultation have , quite rightly , be undertake to arrive at the figure of 800 people , but if that figure be lower , it would drag in organisation like Dudley CVS , which would be dangerous . I agree with the hon . member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) , who sadly be no long in his place , when he say that it would be sad to water down the Bill in any way . we do not seek to dilute , water down or diminish any part of what be in the Bill . however , we be worried about the use of delegate legislation power to fundamentally change the provision of the Bill , as it have be bring to the House at this point , and who it apply to . not long ago , member of the Minister ' s party would attack anything that resemble Henry VIII power at every opportunity . I worry that a sudden conversion in government have see they become a little bit too relaxed about fall back on those delegate power in a way that be not need . if , at a later date , the Government want to bring substantially more organisation and venue into the provision of the Bill , at either level , they can come back with primary legislation , which we can debate and consider . however , that be not what be be propose today , which be why I will be vote for amendment 25 and 26 . this be a good Bill , but we should not roll back the progress the Government have rightly make and we should stick to the threshold as set out in the Bill . I fully understand the reasoning and the demand for a Bill such as this when it become know that , after a terrorist event , life be lose because of bad organisation . if it be possible to introduce legislation that help to avoid a situation that we have see develop in the past , then of course we should do it . however , we have to be cognisant that when we introduce legislation , it have consequence for the people to whom it apply . as we have hear time and again during the debate , member believe that this legislation be both proportionate and practical . if member genuinely believe that that be the case , there be absolutely no reason why new clause 1 should not be support . we be enter a new field and impose new regulation on body that be not regulate in relation to terrorism before , so surely it be important that we find out whether or not the objective and the intention be actually fulfil . one way to do that be to monitor the effect over a period of time . I have some concern about the legislation , which people have already raise . in many case , I do not think that the measure be practical . secondly , I do not believe that they will not have an impact . that be not what member expect and it be not what they want . member across the House have say that they think the legislation may put people off engage in activity that they would have undertake in the absence of the regulation — activity that make a valuable contribution to their community . there be always a danger that people interpret the legislation that come before the House , and sometimes our own rhetoric encourage they to do so . they may think a result of this legislation will be that it reduce the danger of people suffer a terrorist attack . to be clear , that be not and can not be the purpose of the Bill . terrorist attack can be stop only if we have intelligence , the security force can act on that intelligence and we act in time . as the hon . member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) point out , the legislation be more about what happen after the event . however , it be not only about what happen after the event . the legislation put obligation on people before they make a decision to undertake an event . some of the wording in the Bill raise concern . to clarify , I be not say the legislation be only of value after an event . I say that part of its value be the impact it have on plan for the period after an event . on the burden the right hon . Gentleman talk about on people make preparation , do he accept that it be important that they consider the potential impact of event and think in advance about that in take those decision ? that be how we will avoid the kind of atrocity we have see . let we look at some of the language and the requirement in the Bill that be totally reasonable . for example , the Bill set out that people who be organise event should have plan " for evacuate individual from the premise " . as far as I know , that already happen . at many of the event I attend , before the event even start , somebody stand up and say , " here be some house rule : in the event of a fire , the exit be here , here and here . leave in an orderly way . when you get outside , meet at a certain point , so we can check everybody be out of the area . " there be measure in the Bill that be reasonable and that I would assume people be already do . if they be not do they , then it be not onerous on they to start say that at the beginning of an event . however , the Bill apply to retail as well . it be easy to communicate that kind of information to people if they be in a theatre or at some kind of concert , but it be a bit more difficult to communicate that to individual when they be move in and out of retail premise . we have to be careful about the practicality of what we ask people to do . let I set out some of the thing I have concern about , which I believe be unreasonable to require of organisation . first , " public protection procedure " have to be " follow by individual work on the premise or at the event if there be reason to suspect that an act of terrorism be occur , or be about to occur , on the premise " . I suppose it be fairly obvious if something be " occur " — we know if something be happen — but what if it be likely or " about to occur " ? be organiser mean to liaise with the police and get intelligence from they — intelligence that the police may not be able to divulge , or may not even have ? what onus do it put on individual in term of preparation , give the random nature of terrorism ? we have see somebody go into a pre - school class with a knife . nobody could have anticipate that . furthermore , when an event be occur , or might be about to occur , the organiser have to prevent individual from enter the premise . if I be organise an event , I would want to know what kind of security requirement that put on I as the organiser . be I mean to ensure that a security presence be there ? what kind of security presence ? we have talk quite a lot tonight about the fact that many event of 200 people could be organise by ordinary community group . I think of theatre group in my constituency . the only interest that people who organise such event have be act . they do not have any of the skill that might be require to prevent people from enter the premise , so do they need to have security apparatus , such as security people ? the next measure about which there be a degree of ambiguity be the requirement that organiser do not divulge security information relate to the premise or event . I understand that they should not send out plan of the building in which they will be operate , show the door through which people can come in and get out , and the easy and hard way into the premise . however , the Bill go far than that . the organiser can not give information about the event . the whole purpose of an event be to publicise it . where will it be hold ? at what time will it be hold ? how many people can be facilitate ? how do people get ticket ? the point that I be try to make be that there be language in the Bill about which I would have a lot of question , be I an individual who be subject to it , because if I do not get it right , there would be a fine of up to £ 5 , 000 or £ 10 , 000 . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that he be make a compelling case to support new clause 2 , table by the Liberal Democrats , which would provide for training to address some of the ambiguity that he describe ? I do not believe that training would address the ambiguity , because the ambiguity be in the wording of the legislation with which people will be require to comply . we all know what happen with training school . as soon as training be mention , people start rub their hand and think how much they will charge for it . we be talk about training for a one - off event . when we introduce such legislation , we have to be careful not to put a burden on people . I know that member have say that this be not a burden , but I hope that I have explain why I believe the Bill put a burden on people whose main job be not security . I understand common - sense requirement be make of event organiser , but if someone ' s main job be not security at such event , they be more likely simply to drop the event . I also support the amendment about the ability of the Secretary of State to change regulation , because that ability relate to not just the size of the premise , which can be decrease , but the purpose for which the premise will be use , the people who can be hold responsible , and the scope of the premise that can be cover . the power in clause 32 to amend the legislation be fairly extensive , and if the Secretary of State decide that there be to be change in those four area , the legislation that we approve tonight could be radically different in a year ' s time , because the review depend upon whether there be a need to reduce the vulnerability of event , as per clause 6 ( 5 ) . terrorist be very adaptable . large - scale event be a bit hard to attack , so they go to small - scale event . we have find that in Northern Ireland . my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention what terrorist do when they could not get through the security cordon in big town : they go to mission hall , where there be maybe 40 worshipper , in the middle of the country . those place then become target , as do Orange hall and small country pub . terrorist will be adaptable . I have no doubt that there will be an outcry at some stage because what we anticipate be vulnerable to terrorist have change . maybe small venue will become vulnerable . will we then bring into scope those with a capacity of 100 , or 50 ? the Secretary of State should not be able to change the regulation without come back to the House , so that we do not find ourselves place burden on , and regulate , individual we never intend to , and who would find it impossible to comply . for those reason , I support new clause 1 and the amendment that relate to the power of the Secretary of State . I know that it be always difficult for Government Members to vote against their own party , but they should not forget that the Bill will affect activity , premise , organisation and business in every one of our constituency . for that reason , we ought to be very careful about what we vote through tonight . I pay tribute to Figen Murray and her campaign team . that she have somehow be able to channel personal grief into a fierce determination to change the law be beyond inspire . we should be clear that we would not be here tonight without her campaigning effort . the whole House owe she a debt of gratitude . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have speak today . as ever , I will endeavour to respond to the point that have be raise . I be particularly grateful for the constructive approach that have be take to consider the Bill , today and at previous stage . I place on the record my thank to the Opposition for the constructive way in which they have approach the Bill throughout its passage . it be time that this cross - party commitment to improve the safety and security of venue be deliver without further delay , and I be proud that we be move one step close tonight . as hon . member have hear during the passage of the Bill , the threat picture be complex , evolve and enduring . since 2017 , agency and law enforcement have disrupt 43 late - stage plot , and there have be 15 domestic terror attack . in October , we hear from the director general of MI5 that the country be subject to the most interconnect threat environment that we have ever see . sadly , terrorist can seek to target a variety of location . the example of terrorist attack that have be raise during the passage of the Bill be a sombre reminder of that . I pay tribute again to all victim and survivor of past attack , as well as their love one , and all those affect . I reiterate the Government ' s commitment to support anyone affect by a terrorist attack . I congratulate the Minister and , indeed , the Opposition on the Bill . of course , all hon . member hope that future attack will be prevent by the Bill , but , as have be mention , it be also about plan to ensure increase survivability for those impact by an attack . with that come the need to ensure that the support we provide to victim be fit for purpose . what effort will the Minister make to improve support for victim of terrorism ? my hon . friend raise an important point . one of the most humbling part of this job be meet those who have be the victim of terrorism and their family . I think of people like Figen Murray , Brendan Cox , Travis Frain , Dr Cath Hill — all people I have speak to recently . we be work across Government to progress this important work , and I intend to meet victim and survivor in the new year to hear more about their experience and say more about what we will do as a government to support they . the Bill will improve protective security and organisational preparedness across the UK , make we safe . we hear about the excellent work that many business and organisation already do to improve their security and preparedness . however , without a legislative requirement , there be no consistency . the Bill seek to address that gap and complement the outstanding work that the police , the security service and other partner continue to do to combat the terror threat . as a result , qualifying premise and event should be well prepared to respond and to reduce harm in the event of a terrorist attack . additionally , certain large premise and event will have to take step to reduce their vulnerability to terrorist attack . the public have a right to feel safe , and that be what this legislation seek to deliver . I be grateful for the consider way in which the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) approach the debate . it be clear that the focus of the Opposition ' s amendment and concern be on , among other thing , the impact on business and small organisation . I assure he that that have be a central consideration for the Government , inform by extensive engagement , as well as pre - legislative scrutiny by the Home Affairs Committee and two public consultation under the previous Government . as a result , the version of the Bill that this Government have bring forward include important change to ensure that we can achieve public protection outcome and that there be no undue burden on business and other organisation . the Government have , of course , raise the standard tier threshold from 100 to 200 , which create a more appropriate scope . we have also add a reasonably practicable standard of requirement for the procedure require under both tier . that concept be in line with other regulatory regime , such as health and safety , and be design to allow procedure and measure to be tailor to the specific circumstance of a premise or event . mindful of what the Minister say about consult and act in accordance with the consultation , and of what I say early about the change character of the threat , I ask he to commit from the Dispatch Box to consider , as the legislation begin to have effect , change the guidance and improve regulation where necessary , sensitive to those circumstance . if the right hon . Gentleman bear with I for a moment , I intend to say more on the matter , but I assure he that if he be not satisfied , I will give way to he again . we have introduce a fairer basis for calculate whether a premise or event be in scope . replace capacity with the " reasonable expectation " of the number of people who may be present will reflect the actual usage of premise or attendance at event . I be confident that this version of the Bill strike precisely the right balance . I turn to amendment 25 and 26 table by the hon . member for Stockton West for the Opposition . clause 32 will allow the Secretary of State to increase or decrease the qualifying threshold for either tier . we anticipate that the threshold would be reduce to either floor only in very limited circumstance , such as if the nature of the threat from terrorism be to change significantly . that will enable the regime to maintain an appropriate balance between be able to protect the public and manage the burden on those responsible for premise and event . the amendment propose would remove that ability . furthermore , the power be narrowly draft , and regulation make under it will be subject to the affirmative procedure . in require the approval of both Houses before they be make , parliamentarian will be able to scrutinise any propose change . the Government therefore do not support the amendment . I thank the hon . member for amendment 27 . I think he make his point in a reasonable way , as he often do . while I understand the sentiment , the Government do not support the amendment , but let I explain why . it be intend that the Security Industry Authority will rely on advice and guidance in the first instance . however , a credible enforcement regime with suitable monetary penalty be necessary to ensure that the regulator can secure compliance , particularly where the regulator identify serious or persistent non - compliance . the maximum daily penalty amount be set at a level to counter financial gain from non - compliance , recognise the breadth of organisation in scope as well as the potentially more serious consequence at large venue . it be important that the Secretary of State have the power , by regulation , to change those maximum amount , include to increase they if necessary — for example , if the amount be to prove ineffective in ensure compliance , or the figure need update to reflect change in economic circumstance in the long term . critically , when determine penalty amount , the Bill require the SIA to take into account a range of factor , include the seriousness of the contravention , any action take to remedy or mitigate its effect , and an organisation ' s ability to pay . that will ensure the penalty be effective but proportionate . I reassure member that change will be subject to the affirmative procedure , unless they be simply to reflect inflation . the hon . Member raise concern over the role of the SIA as the regulator , which I believe be the motivation for table new clause 1 . there be several reason why the Government do not support the new clause . the Government be confident that the SIA be the right delivery option for the Martyn ' s law regulator , owe to its year of experience in increase security standard and ensure public protection . it already play an important role in safeguard the public through its work regulate the private security industry . the SIA have long - establish inspection and enforcement function that ensure compliance with its licensing regime , and it already work with security partner to promote good practice around counter - terrorism protective security . will the Minister give way ? if the hon . Member will bear with I , I be go to address some of the point he raise . furthermore , it will take at least 24 month follow Royal Assent for the SIA to begin undertake its enforcement duty . it would not be fair of we , nor indeed possible , to judge its performance before it have begin carry out its new function , which seem to be the effect of the new clause . rise — I will make a bit of progress . I can also assure the House that the Bill already contain provision to ensure the appropriate oversight of the SIA . ultimately , the Bill give the SIA the tool that it will need to deliver its new enforcement function successfully . we be commit to explore wide opportunity to strengthen the SIA so that it can carry out its public protection role and deliver the Government ' s ambitious agenda . I turn to the amendment on training provision table by the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) . I thank he again for his interest in that important issue . as he know , the Bill have be develop to ensure that those work at premise and event be well prepared to respond quickly to evolve situation in the event of a terrorist attack occur or be suspect . those worker make rapid decision and take action that could save life . there be no specific training requirement in the Bill , but it be essential that worker with responsibility for carry out public protection procedure be adequately instruct — and , where appropriate , train — to do so . training and instruction will be tailor to the premise and event in question , and to the procedure that they have develop , rather than our use a one - size - fit - all approach . rise — I will make a bit more progress . the Government think that the focus of premise and event should be on how to ensure that their people can effectively carry out their role , rather than require the completion of generic module or course . we understand the importance of training , and so have commit to publish free dedicated guidance and support . that guidance will ensure that those responsible for qualifying premise and event have the information require to understand and identify training need . the Government also intend to signpost a range of training offer , include the significant support that we offer in the shape of access to expert advice and training on ProtectUK , which already include free access to the " Action Counters Terrorism " and " see , check and notify " training package . furthermore , follow Royal Assent , the Government intend for there to be an implementation period of at least 24 month before the legislation ' s commencement . we be confident that that will allow sufficient time to understand the new obligation and to plan and prepare accordingly , include by training staff where necessary . I be conscious of time , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I want to respond to point make by a number of hon . member . my hon . friend the Member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) make important point about the threat of terrorism . he also rightly pay tribute to Manchester city council for its work with local business . what he say about proportionality should reassure any business that might have concern . as a former police officer , my hon . friend the Member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) speak with great authority on these matter , and I pay tribute to he for his service . he rightly make the point that the Bill be not just about secure physical premise but have a wide value , and that protect the public be not just a matter for government ; other also have an important responsibility in that area . let I turn to the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , who have be very patient . I have to say , I be a little mystified that he be not on the Opposition Front Bench . he seem an effective performer and respond well on Second Reading . [ interruption . ] I be not sure that I be help he , but I think he make a strong contribution again tonight , and I find his word about Martyn ' s legacy particularly move . I be grateful for his constructive approach this evening and previously . he helpfully highlight concern about small venue , particularly small theatre . I assure he that there have be extensive consultation with small venue , although I be sorry that it do not include the constituency venue that he mention . all hon . member have village hall , church and community hall in our constituency , and we all recognise the hugely important role that volunteer play . the Government raise the standard tier threshold from 100 to 200 people specifically in response to the feedback , include from those operate small venue similar to one that the hon . member for Hamble Valley mention . we assess that that have result in a reduction in the proportion of village hall in scope of the Bill ' s requirement from 56 % under the original proposal to 13 % now . I assure he that we will continue to work closely with small venue to ensure the easy transition to the new arrangement . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) say that the nature of terrorism be constantly evolve , and that we need to plan to protect against it . he point out that the Bill contain straightforward measure — prompt , essentially — that be light touch and proportionate . he also very helpfully reference the Edinburgh example . I hope that that provide positive evidence of the potential benefit to business of the measure . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be constructive , as he always be . he speak with great experience and authority on matter relate to terrorism , so I always listen carefully to what he have to say , and often find it profoundly move , as I have again tonight . he mention church , which he have raise with I before . the Government acknowledge that place of worship have a unique and important role in community right across the country , and have consider they very carefully in the context of this legislation . we have consult extensively with church and with place of worship more generally , and I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we will continue to work closely with they to ensure that they have the support and guidance they need . that be a commitment that I make to he . will the Minister give way ? I be conscious of time , so I will keep go , not least because I want to briefly reflect on the contribution of my hon . friend the Member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) . he speak with personal conviction and experience , and I know that he understand the importance of preparation and planning — I will not say the second bit of that phrase . he also rightly pay tribute to our intelligence service , and I echo that tribute . the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) speak with authority , not just as a Member of this House but as a church warden , and make a really interesting point about critical challenge . I hope he will appreciate this point : the Bill be the result of two very extensive public consultation and pre - legislative scrutiny . it be forge from all that work . that be why I be confident that the measure in the Bill be proportionate and reasonable . however , I be grateful for the constructive challenge he offer . the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) make a number of constructive point about threshold . I hope the response I have already give have provide he and the venue in his constituency with the reassurance they want . finally , the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) speak with passion , as he always do , and raise a number of entirely reasonable concern . I be afraid that we will not agree on every aspect of they this evening , but I hope that he will at least acknowledge that the Government have work incredibly hard to ensure that the Bill be proportionate and not unreasonable , give the nature of the threat we face . I will touch briefly on the Government amendment , which make only very minor and technical change to the Bill to ensure that its purpose and intent be clear . they include small drafting change for consistency , to remove unnecessary text , and to clarify technical detail . in closing , I again pay tribute to Figen Murray and her campaign team , and thank they . their campaigning for this legislation have be an inspiration to we all . figen ' s son Martyn lose his life in the Manchester bombing . as the Home Secretary say on Second Reading , " to suffer such a horrendous loss and somehow find the strength to fight for change … be heroic . " — [ Official Report , 14 October 2024 ; Vol . 754 , c . 624 . ] this be a vitally important Bill . the public deserve to feel safe when visit public premise and attend event . it be therefore right that appropriate and reasonably practical step be take to protect staff and the public from the impact of terrorism . that be what the Bill seek to achieve . security will always be the foundation on which everything else be build , and for this Government , nothing will matter more . with that , I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his consider response to the debate . however , while entirely support the objective of the Bill , we do not see why the Government can not commit to a review of the effectiveness of the Security Industry Authority as the regulator , give that the Bill place an entirely new set of requirement on venue and an entirely new set of responsibility on the SIA , so we will press new clause 1 to a Division . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Gregory Campbell James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Chris Philp David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Rebecca Paul Richard Holden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 89 , Noes 340 . question accordingly negative . clause 3 - qualifying event Amendments make : 1 , page 3 , line 4 , leave out " individual will be employ or otherwise engage " and insert " measure will be in place " . this amendment and Amendment 8 make provision about how permission to access premise be check . amendment 2 , page 3 , line 8 , leave out " and " and insert " or ( iii ) be member or guest of a club , association or other body , and " . — ( Dan Jarvis . ) this amendment make provision about event for member and guest of club , association and other body . clause 22 - Appeals against penalty Amendments make : 3 , page 16 , line 15 , leave out " appeal against " and insert " to give or vary the notice " . this be a draft change . amendment 4 , page 16 , line 21 , leave out " appeal against " and insert " to give or vary the notice " . — ( Dan Jarvis . ) this be a draft change . schedule 1 - specified Uses of Premises Amendment make : 5 , page 35 , line 31 , leave out " ( or guest of member ) " and insert " or guest " . — ( Dan Jarvis . ) this be a draft change . schedule 2 - exclude Premises and Events Amendments make : 6 , line 20 , after " ground " insert " that be not a designate sport ground " . this amendment clarify that large sport stadia be not exclude from the application of Part 1 of the Bill . amendment 7 , page 36 , line 21 , leave out " , exercise " . this amendment omit an unnecessary reference to a particular type of recreation and leisure . amendment 8 , page 36 , line 22 , leave out " individual be employ or otherwise engage " and insert " measure be in place " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 1 . amendment 9 , page 36 , line 26 , at end insert " , or ( c ) be member or guest of a club , association or other body . " this amendment make provision about park and similar place which be open only to member and guest of club , association and other body . amendment 10 , page 36 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 3 ) disregard measure in place in relation to — ( a ) particular event , if the measure do not limit public access to the premise at other time , or ( b ) particular facility , if the measure do not limit public access to the premise generally . " this amendment and Amendment 11 make provision clarify the application of paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 . amendment 11 , page 36 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) nothing in this paragraph — ( a ) prevent premise which do not fall within this paragraph , but form part of premise which do , be qualify premise ; ( b ) prevent event hold at premise which fall within this paragraph , or form part of such premise , be qualify event . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 10 . amendment 12 , page 36 , line 29 , at end insert " ( and see section 1 ( 4 ) of that Act for the meaning of " designate sport ground " ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 6 . amendment 13 , page 36 , line 32 , at end insert " ( and see article 3 of that order for the meaning of " designate sport ground " ) " . — ( Dan Jarvis . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 6 . schedule 4 - licensing : disclosure of Plans of Premises Amendments make : 14 , page 45 , line 27 , leave out " a post - commencement " and insert " an " . this amendment and other Government amendment of Schedule 4 remove transitional provision that do not need to be in the Bill . amendment 15 , page 45 , line 29 , leave out " a post - commencement " and insert " an " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 14 . amendment 16 , page 45 , line 31 , leave out " post - commencement " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 14 . amendment 17 , page 45 , line 32 , leave out " post - commencement " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 14 . amendment 18 , page 45 , line 38 , leave out from begin to end of line 14 on page 46 . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 14 . amendment 19 , page 46 , line 15 , leave out " a post - commencement " and insert " an " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 14 . amendment 20 , page 46 , leave out line 23 to 26 . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 14 . amendment 21 , page 50 , line 15 , leave out " post - commencement " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 14 . amendment 22 , page 50 , line 17 , leave out " post - commencement " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 14 . amendment 23 , page 50 , line 18 , leave out " a post - commencement " and insert " an " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 14 . amendment 24 , page 50 , leave out line 24 to 35 . — ( Dan Jarvis . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 14 . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I start by thank everyone across the House who have contribute to the debate on the Bill for their incisive and necessary contribution and their consider scrutiny . I thank in particular my hon . friend the Member for Selby ( Keir Mather ) who have do such an excellent job in whip the Bill through . I also thank the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) and the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) for their work on the Opposition Front Bench during the early stage of the Bill and the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) for take over so ably on Report . I look forward to continue to work with he in his new role . hon . member will be aware of the Bill ' s history , come as it do out of the tragic event of the Manchester Arena attack in May 2017 . I take this opportunity once more to pay tribute to the 22 victim of the horrific Manchester Arena attack , and to Figen Murray , mother of one of the victim , Martyn Hett . her campaigning have be crucial in drive the Bill forward . we would simply not be here debate this legislation without she . during these debate , I have be particularly move by the contribution of hon . member who have speak on behalf of constituent who have be affect by the attack in Manchester , Borough Market and elsewhere , and the important reflection and lesson we can learn from recent history in Northern Ireland . the Bill be one part of our already extensive effort across Government , include those of the police and security service , to combat the threat of terrorism . I take the opportunity to thank they for their vital work in keep our country safe ; we owe they a debt of gratitude . as hon . member have hear I say more than once in this place , the first responsibility of any Government be to keep the public safe . this cross - party commitment to improve the safety and security of venue in the wake of the Manchester Arena attack must be deliver without further delay . the Bill be a manifesto commitment , and I be proud that we have be able to introduce it so early in the Session . I thank colleague from across the House for their support for the Bill , which have enable it to progress through its stage in this place so smoothly . I be also grateful to the previous member of the Home Affairs Committee for their report ; its recommendation have be crucial in shape the Bill . I also take the opportunity to say an enormous thank you to the follow people : Ella Terry in my private office ; the Bill team of Tom Ball , Chloe White , James Fair and Izzy Hancock ; Michelle Chapman and the policy team ; Kris Lee and his legal team ; Joel Wolchover and Tim McAtackney at the Office of the parliamentary Counsel ; and Debbie Bartlett and Shaun Hipgrave , whose leadership over several year have be exemplary . I also thank all the many civil servant , include those in the Home Office analysis and insight and comms team , who have work on the Bill with great diligence and professionalism . many of they have do so for several year . finally , I thank the fantastic staff of this place for their work in support the Bill ' s logistic , in particular the Doorkeepers and the parliamentary Clerks ' team . I finish with a gentle word of encouragement to colleague in the other place . it have be wonderful to have see consensus on the Bill in this place . I hope that they will agree with we on the importance of the Bill and that this manifesto commitment can proceed as smoothly through the other place as it have do here . after several year , and as Figen have say , it be time to get this do . recent year have see too many tragedy and too many precious life take by terrorist attack — hurt that will never truly heal . despite those tragedy , inspirational people such as Figen Murray and Survivors Against Terror have show we that good can come from bad , and that the power be in our hand to act , even in the shadow of grief . martyn ' s law and everyone who have work to make it a reality be an embodiment of that spirit . implement this legislation will require we all to work together . national security be a collective endeavour . organisation affect by the change be acutely aware of their responsibility . they understand the importance of protect their customer from terror , and be commit to ensure that people can attend concert , exhibition and performance with the confidence that they be safe . that spirit of collaboration and mutual responsibility ultimately will make the provision in Martyn ' s law a success . the responsibility go both way . just as we expect venue to take the necessary step in the Bill , they expect the Government to approach its implementation in a measured and sensible manner . I want to finish by thank the Government for continue the important work on the Bill , and to reiterate to the Minister my willingness to work with he on its passing and implementation . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate COMMITTEES with the leave of the House , we shall take motion 2 to 5 together . order , Backbench Business that Wendy Morton be discharge from the Backbench Business Committee and Martin Vickers be add . culture , Media and Sport that Mims davy be discharge from the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and Damian Hinds be add . science , Innovation and Technology that Josh Simons be discharge from the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee and Jon Pearce be add . Treasury that Lucy Rigby be discharge from the Treasury Committee and John Grady be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) petition - pimp website and pay for sex I rise on the 15th day of the 16 day of activism against violence against woman and girl . sexual exploitation for commercial gain be a form of violence and abuse . pimp website provide a platform for abuser to sell woman for sex , and our current legislation be inadequate to tackle it . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of West Lancashire , declare that demand from the minority of man who pay for sex be drive the prostitution and sex trafficking trade , and this sexual exploitation be be facilitate by pimp website that operate with impunity . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003027 ] Waste and Recycling Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) I be grateful to have the opportunity to raise these issue this evening . the UK Government ' s approach to waste management and recycling have evolve significantly in recent year , reflect grow environmental concern and the push for sustainability . every single year , the UK generate nearly 200 million tonne of total waste , but recycle rate in England have be stagnant for some time . the previous Conservative Government make huge effort to improve that in recent year . their simple recycling reform will move we towards a more consistent system across England . in 2026 we be expect to see the majority of plan recycling reform come into effect , with recyclable plastic film to come in 2027 . the last Government make great progress with their " maximise resource , minimise waste " programme , which bring together a range of initiative to keep product and material in circulation for as long as possible , and at their high value , include through increase reuse , repair and remanufacture , help to grow the economy and boost employment . these plan include scrap fee for household to have bulky domestic furniture collect from their home in 2025 , save people money and make it easy for they to recycle furniture so it can be reuse , as well as help to prevent fly - tipping . the last Government do not stop there . they also make reform to ensure collection of food waste for most household across England by 2026 . far still , they deliver on reform for reporting requirement for extended producer responsibility , mean that producer and business will be require to pay for the collection and disposal of household packaging that they supply when it become waste . that will cut waste and move cost away from local authority . the Minister will not be surprised to see I speak in a debate on waste . I put it to the hon . Gentleman that for all his recounting of what the previous Conservative Government do , he may want to look to Wales and to the experience and success of the Welsh Labour Government , who have some of the high recycling rate in the world . I be glad to hear that . hopefully Stockton ' s Labour borough council can learn some lesson from Wales , because we have some of the most shambolic recycling rate in the entire country . there will be lesson to learn for Stockton - on - Tees borough council . extended producer responsibility will cut waste and move cost away from local authority and taxpayer . I commend the hon . gentleman on secure this debate . when it come to record and what be be do well , I think we should recognise that my own local council be near the very top of the recycling chart in Northern Ireland , although there be still much to be achieve , of course . do the hon . Gentleman not agree that to reach all our local government target , and if we want to be good steward of what we have , more support must be available to supply big recycling bin to customer ? far to that , do he agree that we should ask the Minister to provide help to council to enable they to do even more with recycling ? the hon . Gentleman be entirely right . the receptacle that we recycle in be a game changer . in Stockton , we have these disposable bag that disappear off down the road whenever it be windy , never to be see again . have the right recycling receptacle be important . as a country , we need to look to the council that do it well , learn the lesson and roll out good practice . the previous Government kick - start plan for a comprehensive deposit return scheme . it be estimate that UK consumer go through about 14 billion plastic drink bottle and 9 billion drink can every single year , often contribute to our litter epidemic . my hon . friend raise the issue of plastic . with the growth of anaerobic digester deal with more food waste , energy - from - waste incinerator be now burn more plastic . BBC analysis of five year of real datum show that incinerator be now the dirty way to produce power . do he agree that in deal with recycling and its growth , we should not be build more incinerator — and in particular not build the Wisbech incinerator ? I agree wholeheartedly . put these plant in the right place be a very big deal — I know how hard my right hon . friend work to prevent that . I could not agree more . I would be grateful if the Minister could provide an update on the roll - out of the deposit return scheme and say when it be set to be deliver . of course , it be not just business but local community that can support the Government ' s goal to ensure responsible waste disposal . rise — order . if the hon . Member could come far forward and sit back down , a formal intervention could then be make quite smoothly and quickly . I would be very happy to give way to the hon . Gentleman . I thank the hon . Gentleman . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . on the matter of consumer take responsibility for recycling , do the hon . Gentleman agree that the prevalence of accessible recycling centre , and have they close to where people live , be important in increase the volume of recycle that we can achieve ? one recycling centre that be use by my constituent have be close down , which mean that the near centre now be more than 3 mile away . do he agree that keep these recycling centre open and make they more effective at recycling would be a step forward ? I agree entirely . as we look across the piece at the challenge we face in recycling , we should be do everything we can to make it as convenient and as local to people as possible . we have to worry about the consequence of not have local recycling scheme . some people might dispose of their waste irresponsibly and choose to fly - tip instead of make the journey . an estimate 2 . 25 million piece of litter be drop every day in the UK , with the consequence that around £ 1 billion be spend every year by local authority and land manager to clear it up . in Stockton West , we be fortunate to have some amazing , community - spirit litter - pick group : the Thornaby community litter picker , the Eaglescliffe community litter project , the Ingleby Barwick litter picker and the Hartburn community litter pick . these incredible volunteer protect our environment and restore pride in our community . the last Government take action and increase the maximum fine for fly - tipper from £ 400 to £ 1 , 000 , alongside increase the maximum fine for those who litter or graffiti from £ 150 to £ 500 . what further step be the Government take to tackle that important issue , and what step be they take to support and recognise these important community litter pick group ? the Government must allow an environment for business to innovate and help to create solution that support household to reduce waste , and they must tackle the 40 . 4 million tonne of commercial and industrial waste generate every year . business that innovate in this space for the common social good include Amazon , whose Multibank initiative help redistribute 750 , 000 item of surplus good to family in need . we be delighted to see its most recent scheme launch in Teesside , reduce waste while improve people ' s life . human waste around 40 % of the food produce , and that contribute 10 % of global emission . the Government should champion enterprise such as Too good to go in their effort to reduce food waste , take excess produce and ensure that it be put to good , value - for - money use . currently , the Government ' s target be to reduce food waste by 50 % by 2030 , and they must take further policy measure to ensure that we reach that target . one cost - effective measure to the taxpayer that too good to go be call for be mandatory public food waste reporting , which would deliver a vital first step in measure food wastage and drive business to innovate for meaningful change and allow customer to make informed decision . will the Minister confirm that the Government be consider mandatory food waste reporting ? the answer to our waste and recycling challenge start at home — in fact , in every home in the country , and how they dispose of their waste . local authority have the big role in determine that , as they decide how and where people can dispose of their waste and recycling . although the Government can go so far directly , they also have a role in ensure that local authority be do all they can to support resident and business to drive up recycling rate . while UK council be require to run a service that collect recycling and garden waste separate from general waste , council be not obligate by legislation to separate the different type of recycling . different recyclable material may not be collect if it be not " technically or economically practicable " . a study by the TaxPayers ' Alliance find that many constituent and household have concern that they would have to deal with multiple different bin , place unnecessary obligation on household and business . we have see a complete disparity among local authority when it come to deliver the Government ' s waste and recycling strategy . some local authority have up to 10 different bin compare with other that have only two . although waste collection be one of the primary service provide by council , the inconsistent and often inefficient approach have hugely vary consequence . good , efficient council provide accessible , reliable , well - use service , while other less so , with real consequence for litter , fly - tipping and recycle rate . in my constituency , Stockton ' s Labour - lead council provide the bad example , with poor service and even poor value for money . Stockton ' s Labour council have preside over the bad recycling rate in the region , and its rate be so poor that they be among the bad in the entire country . local litter picker have question why the council be fail to take action on fly - tipper , with Stockton be among the low performing when it come to issue penalty . all the while , the verge of the A66 , one of the gateway to the town , remain covered in discard can , bottle and rubbish . it be about to get a whole lot bad . despite labour subject resident to some of the high council tax rate in the entire country , the council decide to vastly reduce waste and recycling service . it be axe weekly bin collection , and now resident will have to stack up waste for fortnightly collection . it have close four local recycling centre , make people travel to other town to dispose of their recycling . I be enjoy listen to the hon . Gentleman ' s expression of support for Labour - lead Stockton - on - Tees borough council . between 2017 and 2019 , the UK ship 263 container of waste to Sri Lanka . the UK have label they " use mattress , carpet and rug " , but what Sri Lankan authority find inside the container have be describe as " far more sinister " . do the hon . Gentleman agree that whereas the last Government have plenty of warm word , they be very quick to throw the problem as far away as they could ? that be an interesting point . I think that there be a responsibility on the Government and local authority to ensure that we recycle stuff rather than ship it abroad or put it into landfill . it be our problem , and we should sort it out at home whenever possible . I look forward to what will be achieve in the next few year . Stockton - on - Tees borough council be end our free green waste collection , impose additional charge on anyone want to get rid of grass clipping , fallen leave and garden waste . the change represent a fly - tipper charter , and there be now fear that Stockton could become the UK ' s fly - tipping capital , because these barrier could lead to more people dispose of waste irresponsibly . resident ask I why their service be be slash when the council tax that they pay be among the high in the country . while those on my Labour council be no good at deal with waste collection , they be expert at produce plenty of waste . the council have spend nearly £ 16 million on recruitment consultant since 2021 — £ 370 , 000 a month . it be refuse to answer question about the use of other consultant and the cost ; it be spend more on director salary of over £ 100 , 000 than other council across the region ; it be spend money on fly people out to Montpellier and Copenhagen to watch show and decide whether they be worth feature at the local festival ; it continue to throw vip soir é es with free food and drink for councillor ; and much , much more . do the Minister agree that when it come to deliver the Government ' s recycling aim and ambition and drive up the UK ' s stagnant recycling rate , we need to ensure that all council take their role seriously ? what a pleasure it be to serve under your chairmanship this evening , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) for raise this issue — he have certainly have a busy day , have move from the Front Bench to the Back Benches — and I thank everyone else who have take part in the debate . the Secretary of State have make it clear that resource and waste be a priority issue for DEFRA , and I be pleased to share our plan in this regard . the Government be commit to the transition to a circular economy — a future in which we keep our resource in use for long , reduce our carbon emission and invest in critical infrastructure and green job in every nation and region , and in which our economy prosper and nature thrive . we want to abandon our linear and unsustainable " take , make , throw " model , which mean that we extract resource from the Earth , make thing and then throw they away , because there be no such place as " away " . if the whole world consume resource as we do in the UK , we would need 2 . 5 time the Earth ' s raw material to sustain our current system . meanwhile , nearly 100 million tonne of residual waste be dispose of annually , and waste crime alone cost our economy £ 1 billion every year . that can not continue . we must and will move toward a system that value longevity , repair and reuse over disposal . in our manifesto , we pledge to reduce waste by move to a circular economy . that be why we have commit ourselves to develop a circular economy strategy for England , which we will create in partnership with expert from industry , academia , civil society , local government and beyond . I be glad that the Minister have describe this as a priority . she have a statutory target to halve residual waste , but what she have not mention be the impact that will have on mega - incinerator that be be build essentially to burn plastic . do she accept that more than 30 environmental charity — charity usually link to her party and the left — be strongly oppose to those incinerator , and will she commit herself to publish an impact assessment on the effect of reduce residual waste on the need for incinerator ? I will come on to those point later in my speech , and I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will intervene if he do not get the satisfaction and clarity that he seek . good thing come to those who wait . let I begin with the strategy . we want to have an economy - wide transformation of our relationship with our resource , which be all about support the Government ' s mission to kick - start economic growth , make Britain a clean energy superpower , and accelerate the path to net zero through our effort to tackle waste crime and take back our street . to answer the question pose by the hon . member for Stockton West , prevent food waste be key to my Department , and we be review a range of issue associate with food waste in the supply chain . we hope to make further announcement soon . let I address the collection and packaging reform , which the hon . member outline . they be an important starting point in transition to a circular economy , and we be proud of the step that we have take so far . over the next three year , simple recycling , extend producer responsibility and the deposit return scheme will deliver transformational change , create thousand of new job and stimulate billion of pound ' worth of investment . those three area make up the three - legged stool of this Government ' s plan to kick - start the circular economy , so I will briefly take each one in turn . the first area be simple recycling . we recently affirm our commitment to deliver simple recycling in England , which will be introduce for business from 31 March 2025 and for household from 31 March 2026 . this Government inherit legislation introduce by the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) that could have require household to have up to seven bin . as the hon . member for Stockton West rightly say , some council have up to 10 bin , but that be because they think they be do the right thing , give the signal that be be send out under the previous Government . that place an unnecessary burden on people and business , and unnecessary clutter in everyone ' s front and back garden . we be simplify the rule to make recycling easy for people , while stimulate growth , maximise the benefit and end the postcode lottery for recycling . across England , people will be able to recycle the same material at home , work or school . the legislation for simple recycling have already come into force . to confirm the final detail of the policy , we lay regulation before Parliament on 3 December . the policy will support our ambition to recycle 65 % of municipal waste by 2035 . it be important to remember that figure , because when the last Labour Government bring in the landfill tax reform in 2002 , the original target be to have a recycling rate of 50 % by 2015 — a target that , sadly , be lose under the previous Government . ten year on from that date , the target have still not be meet . the policy will also deliver an estimate £ 11 . 8 billion - worth of carbon saving between 2024 and 2035 . as we have hear , local circumstance differ across the country , so we be make sure that council and other waste collector have the flexibility to make the good local choice . we know that local authority may want to review their waste collection service to ensure that they provide good value for money . as be currently the case , local council will continue to decide the frequency of waste collection in a way that suit the need of their local community . the Government ' s priority be to ensure that household ' need be meet , so we have recently publish guidance to support council in this area . the second area be extend producer responsibility for packaging . to help fund simple recycling , we be introduce in parallel extend producer responsibility for packaging , or pEPR , which will require obligate producer to pay the full end of life cost associate with the packaging that they place on the market . that will bring more than £ 1 billion of investment into local government waste collection , and incentivise producer to reduce unnecessary packaging and make what they use even more sustainable . those regulation have now be debate in both Houses . they receive unanimous cross - party support and will come into force on 1 January 2025 . the third and final leg be the deposit return scheme — DRS — for drink container . we have see this work in over 50 country around the world . the DRS will make a real difference to people ' s life by tackle litter and clean up our street . recycling rate will increase and the drink industry will benefit from the high quality recycle material that the DRS will provide . we be committed to deliver a deposit return scheme in England , Scotland , and Northern Ireland in October 2027 and we will continue to work closely with industry partner , the Scottish Government and the Department for Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern Ireland to launch the scheme . I work across Europe for more than 15 year , and a DRS scheme have be in place all over Europe during all that time . I have be hear for so long that it would arrive in the UK , but it have not , so I would be interested to hear the timescale . also , will the Government consider put restriction on the use of fresh plastic for drink bottle ? instead of they be recyclable , can we make they recycle ? I share the hon . Gentleman ' s impatience . I be old enough to remember , as Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee in 2017 , hear several predecessor of the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire promise that we would have a DRS scheme . the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) be also right to say that there be no point in recycling if there be no end market . I welcome the plastic packaging tax that be introduce under the prime ministership of Theresa May , which mandate a 30 % recycled content . the question , where fossil fuel be very cheap , be how we drive business ' s behaviour change , and that be under active consideration to ensure that there be an end market for the recyclate that be place on the market . on the hon . Gentleman ' s question about the timescale , we lay the regulation for England and Northern Ireland before Parliament on 25 November and we plan for the regulation to come into force in late January , parliamentary time permit . the Scottish Government will then make the necessary amendment to legislation in Scotland . after that , the three government will appoint the Deposit Management Organisation in April 2025 , for which application open on Monday 2 December , so this be all hot off the press , and this be a timely debate . the aim be for the drs to come into force on 1 October 2027 . however , there be much more to do . on Friday , I be delighted to visit Suez ' s Malpass Farm facility in Rugby . work in partnership with Cemex , Suez have provide 1 million tonne of climafuel from non - recyclable waste , divert it from landfill and reduce coal consumption in the neighbour Cemex plant by 75 , 000 tonne , thus enable big industrial decarbonisation . early today , I make a quick trip up to Newark to visit the Curry ' s site , which be home to one of its unique repair centre . I see how Curry ' s , a great and proud british company , be use its resource and its market position to repair and refurbish broken phone , laptop and tablet , and I recommend its refurbishment website to anyone look for a last - minute gift from Santa . such industrial partnership , work together to maximise the value of resource , demonstrate the role that the resource and waste sector can play in support net zero and support economic growth . a high - perform resource and waste sector be key to drive a circular economy . however , waste crime threaten this by take resource away from that circular economy and from the good business that want to do the right thing and make those green investment . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) be interested in this , and I be glad to see he in his traditional place . Waste crime cost the country £ 1 billion a year , and we know that 18 % of waste may be handle illegally at some point in the waste supply chain . that be around 34 million tonne of waste every year . we be committed to tackle this scourge . the Minister have speak about many different type of rubbish , but not where it often go , which be to household waste recycling centre . not content with the Tory tip tax , cash - strap Norfolk county council have go far in try to encourage fly - tipping by create a mad booking system for resident who want to use household waste recycling centre . will the Minister extend the same guidance to household waste recycling centre that she have talk about extend to kerbside recycling scheme ? I be very happy to look at that , but I gently tell the hon . Gentleman that after more than a decade of austerity , provide more service with less money be a challenge , and many local council have not be able to square that circle . rather than indulge in thinking about what could be do in a perfect world , we have to look at the world we be in and ask , " what can we do ? " it be clear that this three - legged stool of reform will put some much - need fresh cash into the system , so that the various municipal collection can be ready for the go - live date , and there may be opportunity in that . we have have several debate about fly - tipping , and there be more than 1 million fly - tipping incident in 2022 - 23 , which be 10 % more than we have three year ago . as the hon . member for Stockton West say , Stockton - on - Tees alone have have 1 , 700 fly - tipping incident . we can not allow these incident to continue , and I pay tribute to the many local litter group he have meet . I will have the enjoyment of meet the Aylesbury Wombles in Parliament this Wednesday , and there be little group everywhere . we want fly - tipper and vandal to clean up the mess they have create , and we must take back our country from these criminal who blight our community and undermine legitimate business . I look forward to provide detail on that . I be grateful to my favourite Minister in his Majesty ' s Government for give way . notwithstanding any legal action relate to Walleys Quarry , will the former Secretary of State , the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , and the Minister join I in pay tribute to all the hard - work , good and loyal subject in Newcastle - under - Lyme who campaign , day in and day out , for clean air , healthy lung and the kind of change we so desperately want to see ? what we see there be a local community campaign to stop the stink , and I be pleased that the regulator have take swift action . on the point raise by the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire about energy from waste , his Government fail to reach their recycling target . we do not support over - capacity of energy from waste , and incineration should be an option only for waste that can not be prevent , reuse or recycle , such as medical waste or nappy . in the waste hierarchy , recover energy from waste be still preferable to dispose of waste in landfill . it maximise the value of the resource be dispose of , and avoid the great environmental impact of landfill , which continue for generation , as we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) . we can not solve today ' s problem by store they up for future generation , so we will shortly publish our analysis of the need for further energy from waste development in England , follow delivery of our reform . however , I make it clear that it be for the relevant planning authority to determine the need for propose development . our capacity assessment will help inform decision making on planning . in a classic example of join - up government , many of these incinerator , include the Wisbech incinerator , be class as nationally significant infrastructure , so decision on they be make by the Government , not devolve locally . I welcome the Minister say that she do not support over - capacity of incineration , just as I welcome her ambition to increase recycling , but give that she want increase recycling , there will be over - capacity of incineration . we need to see the impact assessment so that we can see the trajectory , and can see the increase rate at which waste will be recycle . we can then avoid the over - capacity . when will we see that impact assessment , so that we do not have too much capacity in incineration ? I be a bit mystify by the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , because he put a stop to planning decision on energy from waste . do he not conduct an impact assessment beforehand ? I do not want to intervene too much , but as a point of clarification , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be recuse as the Minister , so I certainly do not make that decision . I be make the argument against incineration ; I would have think that the Minister would support that , because she want more recycling . over 30 environmental charity say that incineration be the dirty way to produce energy — that it be as dirty as coal . five year of analysis by the BBC find it be the dirty . I be highlight the contradiction between the Government say that they be for the environment and clean energy , and there be a risk of over - capacity in incineration , which burn plastic and be harmful to the environment . I be highlight that contradiction and say that that be the reason why the Government should publish an impact assessment . order . now that the House be aware that Mr Barclay recuse himself , we should not repeat that statement , but no doubt the Minister wish to respond . I be very keen to set the record straight , Madam Deputy Speaker . the House will have hear what the right hon . Gentleman have to say . it be important that we do not incinerate recyclable material . the environmental permit regulation prevent the incineration of separately collect paper , metal , glass or plastic waste unless it have go through some form of treatment process first , and , follow that treatment , incineration be the good environmental outcome . as I say , we will publish our capacity assessment before the end of this year , and we do not support incineration over - capacity . if we look at the waste hierarchy , waste incineration do not compete with or conflict with recycling . I think the right hon . Gentleman may have be talk to Madam Deputy Speaker when I be describe my visit to Rugby , where it be possible to see some use for energy from waste that help with the hard to abate industrial sector . the process for cement , for example , require a furnace that be heat to 1 , 400 ° c . in my view , the end result in that case mean that it be a good use of incineration . that be what come out of the municipal recycling facility — out of our black bin — and it be the very tail end of the waste process I have describe . we have consult on expand the UK emission trading scheme to include waste incineration and energy from waste , in order to divert plastic away from incineration . we be take on board response , and we will detail final policy on that in due course . we be include energy from waste under decarbonisation readiness requirement . we believe that any energy - produce waste facility seek an environmental permit need to look at how it will decarbonise . move to a circular economy be no small task , but we will do so by work collaboratively , and across this House , build on the policy leave by the previous Government . the Minister talk about the importance of work across Government , across this House and across our community . notwithstanding her position as my favourite Minister in his Majesty ' s Government , I gently put to she the importance of look at council that give planning consent to development in and around landfill site . in Newcastle - under - Lyme , a number of housing development have be build right around Walleys Quarry . that have a material impact on the health and wellbeing of the people who move there , and more generally on how our community be view . I urge she to have the appropriate conversation with colleague across Government to ensure that the 1 . 5 million home that we all want be build in the right place , with the right communication and consultation when decision be take . the Minister may wish to check hansard to see how many time the hon . Member have mention his " favourite Minister " . indeed , and how many time my hon . friend have mention Walleys Quarry . and my favourite Deputy Speaker . I think the kind thing that we can say be that the experience of Walleys Quarry be a learn experience for we all . I have a former landfill site in my constituency that have be properly remediate and cover over , with housing build alongside it . it start out as a clay quarry for brickmake . then it become a landfill site for the council , and now it be housing , but the site have be properly remediate . I think the problem have come through a lack of guidance and regulation about where housing can and should be build , an understandable keenness to build the home that people desperately need , and a failure to understand that thing should not be place 30 metre away from a landfill site . it be simply not acceptable . certainly , that be a learning point that we be bring into the planning and infrastructure Bill . move to a circular economy be no small task , but we be committed to play our part , build the UK Government ' s reputation at home and abroad , and drive green job , green growth and the green shoot of recovery in every nation and region of our country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .