Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — UK Industrial Strategy what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the development of a new UK industrial strategy . what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the development of a new UK industrial strategy . what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the development of a new UK industrial strategy . what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the development of a new UK industrial strategy . what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the development of a new UK industrial strategy . economic growth be the priority for this Government , and our industrial strategy be central to achieve it . last week I co - host a roundtable with the Minister for the Economy in Northern Ireland , Caoimhe Archibald , and business organisation to discuss how we can work together to ensure that the industrial strategy benefit Northern Ireland . Northern Ireland , like Newcastle - under - Lyme , have a proud industrial heritage . can the Secretary of State expand on his answer and give we a flavour of the specific discussion he have have with industry , high education institution and the Executive on ensure that Northern Ireland be right alongside Newcastle - under - Lyme at the heart of the Government ' s new industrial strategy ? Northern Ireland do indeed have a great industrial heritage . titanic Studios , for example , have be the paint shed for Harland and Wolff , and now it host a lot of film making . another example be the revival of Harland and Wolff , which , thank to the takeover by Navantia , will now be build the Navy ' s three new fleet solid support ship . those be two good example of Northern Ireland ' s strength . do the Secretary of State agree that the UK industrial strategy be of deep importance to resident of Northern Ireland , as it be to resident of Erewash , where we be currently in the process of redevelop New Stanton Park to form a new industrial future from the rubble of our famous former ironwork ? I do indeed , and I wish my hon . friend every success with the New Stanton Park redevelopment . at the roundtable that I co - chair last week , we have representative from manufacturing , from cyber , from small business such as Alchemy , and from the chamber of commerce for Derry / Londonderry and for Causeway Coast . those business can see the industrial strategy result in great opportunity for the people and business of Northern Ireland . a core objective of the Government ' s modern industrial strategy be to unleash the full potential of our city and region , which be as true in Northern as it be in my constituency of Harlow . do the Secretary of State agree that Northern Ireland ' s four city growth deal , which the Government commit to at the Budget , can play a vital role in this ? I wish Harlow every success as well . the city and growth deal be really important to Northern Ireland ' s economic future . the Government be invest a considerable amount of money , together with the Executive , private sector partner and business . among the project that the city and growth deal will support be those relate to digital innovation , decarbonisation and digital health — yet another example of the great strength of the Northern Ireland economy . if we be to boost productivity , drive clean , green power and build a resilient economy across the UK , collaboration will be essential . will the Secretary of State set out what political engagement he have have with business leader and politician on work together to deliver the good for Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom ? last Thursday I visit Foyle port and its innovation park . a new data centre will be build there to tap into the renewable energy that be available alongside it . that be a really good example of the port think about its economic future and how we will get new business in , draw on the great strength that Northern Ireland have in renewable energy . I hope we see more such development . my constituent in Falkirk see at first hand the failure of government to collaborate in the previous Parliament . what engagement have the Secretary of State have with political leader and business and sector leader , such as those in bus manufacturing , to work together to deliver the good for Northern Ireland ? my hon . friend give I the chance to talk about the great success of Wrightbus , base in Ballymena , which have win a huge new order from go - ahead . it be make the electric and hydrogen bus of the future , and be take on more staff . I would encourage anyone across the United Kingdom who be think of buy bus for their fleet to see what be available at Wrightbus . can the Secretary of State further outline what representation he have make to Cabinet colleague to ensure that the UK industrial strategy pay more than lip service to the position of Northern Ireland ' s manufacturing industry , as see in aerospace , shipbuilding and defence , which have a global reputation for be top - class ? how will he advocate for our own Government to invest in those sector even far and even well ? I have already point out example of that investment . to Harland and Wolff , I would add the order that be go to Thales to make more missile for Ukraine , which will create an additional 200 job . as the answer that I have give demonstrate , Northern Ireland have enormous strength , and the task of the strategy , and for all of we , be to build on they . can the Secretary of State give safeguard for the benefit of the UK industrial strategy , such as economic growth , innovation , and research and development , against the adverse effect of the Windsor framework ? the Windsor framework be a necessity arise from our departure from the European Union , because we have get two trading entity with different rule and an open border , and some arrangement have to be put in place to manage that . but the good be continue to flow both way across the Irish sea . I point out to the hon . Gentleman that the growth rate in Northern Ireland be high than in the UK as a whole . Northern Ireland also have the low unemployment in the UK . with regard to international trade , as mention by the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) , what assessment have make be make of the UK industrial strategy and the impact of US tariff that may come on good manufacture in Northern Ireland ? we will discover more later today about the decision that we be tell the US Administration be about to make . tariff be not good for any country , and they be not good for the global trading system , but we will have to see what the consequence be . any tariff that the United States of America put on the United Kingdom will be feel equally in Northern Ireland and in Great Britain . we will not hesitate to take the action that be necessary to respond , but we be not go to make snap decision , because we be also try to negotiate an economic agreement with the United States of America . an industrial strategy would be very welcome , but be not the reality that any assistance under an industrial strategy in Northern Ireland would be subject to EU state aid rule , that any raw material for industry in Northern Ireland that come from GB would have to pass through the international EU custom border , and that many good would have to be make to EU , not UK , standard ? unless or until we get rid of those hindrance , how do we liberate such a strategy ? as I point out in my previous answer , the Windsor framework , which be negotiate by the previous Government and be a huge improvement on the Northern Ireland protocol , be the only available mean of manage the challenge of have two system , with two different set of rule , and an open border . not all member of the House may want to recognise that fact , but it be a fact , and we have to deal with it . the Secretary State will be aware that over the past couple of decade investment from US company in Northern Ireland have be important for economic growth and for cement the peace process . as we all await the announcement from the President of the United States later today , will the Secretary of State give some thought to support business that could be detrimentally affect by any potential tariff in Northern Ireland ? we be go to have to wait and see what the US Administration decide . as I have already indicate , the Government will take the step that be necessary in the national interest , but we be seek to negotiate an agreement , and that work be continue , notwithstanding what be announce later today . I call the shadow Secretary of State . as the House have hear , we be expect Washington later today to announce the big change to its tariff regime in a generation . that may cause huge disruption to industry and business throughout the United Kingdom , and that disruption may be particularly feel in Northern Ireland . what guidance have the Government provide to business in Northern Ireland to help they prepare for different scenario ? we do not yet know , apart from the tariff on car and on steel and aluminium , what else the US Administration may announce later today . but the effect of any tariff , if impose , will be feel equally in Northern Ireland and across the rest of the United Kingdom . we will have to deal with the consequence when we know what the US Administration have decide . I be afraid that reveal that the Government have provide business with no information to help they prepare for the different scenario that may emerge . the Secretary of State will be aware that in some scenario Northern Ireland , because of its unique arrangement , may be particularly disadvantage in a trade war . will he confirm to the House that , if that happen , the Government will be prepared to use article 16 of the Windsor framework to take unilateral safeguarding measure to protect business in GB and Northern Ireland ? in respect of tariff that affect the whole of the United Kingdom , as I have already say to the hon . Gentleman , we will have to see what they be and take the appropriate action in response . if the EU retaliate , then there will be an issue in respect of Northern Ireland , as he will be well aware . however , there be the tariff reimbursement scheme , of which he will also be aware , and that mean that , provide those business can demonstrate that the good they have buy from the United States of America be not leave the United Kingdom , they can get that tariff reimburse . Defence expenditure : Supply chain what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Defence on the potential impact of defence expenditure in Northern Ireland on defence supply chain company in the rest of the UK . what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Defence on the potential impact of defence expenditure in Northern Ireland on defence supply chain company in the rest of the UK . the Government ' s commitment to increase defence expenditure to 2 . 5 % of gdp from April 2027 will provide an opportunity for defence company in Northern Ireland to secure investment and create job . Teesside have strong and endure tie with Northern Ireland : we remember the contribution of the late Mo Mowlam and her legacy , as well as the economic tie . do my right hon . friend agree that the Government ' s historic uplift in defence spending can deepen those tie and ensure job and growth across the UK ? I do indeed agree , because it be an opportunity for UK defence business , include in Northern Ireland , to take advantage of the increase defence expenditure . I have already indicate to the House two example , in Thales and in Harland and Wolff , where the Government be invest in Northern Ireland already . the UK defence industry support hundred of thousand of good job and represent UK manufacturing at its good . will the Secretary of State outline what the Government be do to support the defence sector in Scotland and in Northern Ireland ? the most important thing that we be do be increase defence expenditure , which will provide the opportunity to which I refer a moment ago . I also very much welcome the Ministry of Defence ' s announcement of a new hub for small and medium - sized enterprise to allow they well access to the defence supply chain . the MOD have also commit to set a target by July this year for spend on sme . the Secretary of State might recall that two year ago I launch a report that highlight that Northern Ireland receive one fifth of the UK average spend on defence . that incorporate the commitment for Harland and Wolff , which I work on and greatly welcome . I also welcome the announcement of a £ 1 . 6 billion contract for Thales . however , do he accept that the previous Government commit to a thorough and thoughtful publication of how they would support continued growth in Northern Ireland ' s defence sector ? will he similarly commit to do so ? the Ministry of Defence have agree to deliver precisely that " safeguard the Union " commitment through its defence industrial strategy , which will look at how the UK ' s defence , technological and industrial base can contribute to the Government ' s growth mission , include in Northern Ireland . the House of Commons will this afternoon recognise 125 year of the Irish Guards as a british regiment . when we consider the capacity to arm those who defend we , should we not also continue in our resolve to defend those who stand up for the value of this nation ? in term of legacy , will the Secretary of State commit to defend those who defend we ? I certainly will . those who serve in Operation Banner be protect the people of Northern Ireland and stand up for the value of our country . we have discuss that a great deal recently , and since I last have the opportunity to address the House , the right hon . Gentleman will have see the decision the Ministry of Defence have take to judicially review the Clonoe inqu verdict — a decision that I support . great British Energy what assessment he have make of the potential impact of great British Energy funding on Northern Ireland . great British Energy will operate across the whole of the United Kingdom , help to reduce our reliance on import gas and bring down energy bill . UK Ministers and GB Energy will work with Northern Ireland ' s Department for the Economy to explore opportunity to increase clean energy deployment by 2030 , start with £ 1 . 6 million of funding to the Executive for sustainable energy . abandon the 2050 net zero target show that the Tory leader have learn nothing from her party ' s historic election defeat . do the Minister agree that Northern Ireland have a huge amount to gain from this Labour Government , work together with the Northern Ireland Executive on the transition to clean power ? will she update we on any recent discussion she have have with the Executive ? the Conservatives ' energy policy now , as over the past 14 year , fail to bring down bill , still rely on expensive oil and gas , fail to invest in green job , and fail future generation on climate change . this government be invest in the new technology we need . two week ago I be delighted to join the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , at Ulster University to see its cutting - edge renewable energy and solar panel development and the benefit that the clean energy transition can bring to Northern Ireland . I be also work with the Executive on this . in pursuit of their unrealistic and costly net zero policy , this Government have commit billion of pound to carbon capture ; guarantee long - term price to renewable energy source , which have add to consumer Bills ; and set up GB Energy , a costly quango . one project that be likely to apply to GB Energy be the proposal for a massive wind farm off the coast of Northern Ireland and adjacent to the Giant ' s Causeway , a world heritage site and major tourist attraction . will the Minister commit to ensure that GB Energy do not support a project that would have a detrimental effect on our tourism industry ? where the wind farm be positioned will be subject to the normal planning process , but wind farm and solar power offer huge opportunity to Northern Ireland . net zero be the future ; reliance on expensive oil and gas be the past . bill will come down and job will grow with the new technology that we can bring forward . Autumn Budget 2024 what assessment he have make of the impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on Northern Ireland . the record £ 18 . 2 billion funding settlement for 2025 - 26 will provide Northern Ireland with funding in line with its independently assess level of need , and it be now for the Executive to decide how that funding be spend . the Royal College of General Practitioners in Northern Ireland have say that the hike in national insurance contribution will be catastrophic for GP surgery . with many practice teeter on the edge , why be minister not do more to talk to their colleague in the Treasury ? I would point out to the hon . member that the previous Government leave — [ interruption . ] however much they may deny it , the previous Government leave a fiscal black hole that have to be fill . the increase in expenditure result from the autumn Budget be help to fund , in part , the record settlement that the Northern Ireland Executive have get for 2025 - 26 . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . the Committee will soon publish our first report to the House on the funding of public service , and the issue of revenue raising by the Executive continue to be highlight . what conversation be the Secretary of State have with the Executive to help deliver long - term financial sustainability in Northern Ireland ? I have regular discussion with the Executive about the financial situation and about their plan . the truth be very simple : all government around the world , include the Northern Ireland Executive , have choice to make , with the resource available , as to whether they seek to raise revenue to fund more thing , include further investment in health . those be choice for the Executive to make , but if they do not make those choice , they will have less fund than would otherwise be available to they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yesterday , Belfast Chamber , which represent 600 business , warn that many northern irish business be be force to freeze growth plan , halt recruitment and , in some case , cut job to absorb rise cost as a consequence of the rise employer national insurance contribution due to take effect in just four day . what assessment have the Northern Ireland Office make of the impact of those tax rise on small and medium - sized enterprise , and what practical discussion be the Secretary of State have with the Northern Ireland Executive to support sme , which be the future of Northern Ireland ' s growth ? of course the increase in employer ' s national insurance will be difficult for some firm — that be clearly the case — but , as I say , the North Ireland economy be grow fast than the rest of the United Kingdom and have low unemployment . the rest of today ' s question time have highlight the huge area of potential that the Northern Ireland economy have to continue to grow and create new job and business . I call the shadow Minister . the Northern Ireland Farming Minister estimate that three quarter of dairy farm in Northern Ireland could be hit by inheritance tax follow the Chancellor ' s disastrous change . give the particularly high cost of agricultural land compare with farming income in Northern Ireland , do the Secretary of State recognise that the Budget be a direct threat to family farm and thousand of livelihood across Northern Ireland ? the figure the hon . Gentleman just refer to do not reflect the Treasury ' s assessment of the number of farm that will be affect , which be base on claim submit in the past . I understand the farming industry ' s concern , but the Treasury be clear that , first , it will not hit the majority of farm and , secondly , we have to do something about very big landowner who buy a lot of land to avoid inheritance tax . public Sector Reform what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on good practice for public sector reform . public sector reform be a priority for this Government , and I regularly meet with Northern Ireland Executive Ministers , union and public service provider . most recently , the Government and Executive agree £ 129 million of funding for public service transformation for health , special educational need , justice and waste water . I welcome what the Minister say about public service reform be a share challenge . do she agree that it be in the interest of patient and people in Northern Ireland and England for the Executive and the Government to share knowledge and good practice ? I absolutely agree . public service transformation be not just about funding ; it be about how to spend the money that the Northern Ireland Executive have with the record £ 18 . 2 billion settlement . health be devolve , but we work together to share good practice and expertise , as well as recently agree £ 61 million of funding for multidisciplinary team in GP surgery . we will work together to create an NHS fit for the future , and I will be meet the Health Minister again in Northern Ireland this week . will the Minister ensure that any future discussion with Northern Ireland Ministers about public sector reform include the need for employment practice and procedure in many part of the public sector to result in workforce that be more broadly representative of the working - age population ? the Unionist community have be under - represent in many sector , include for many year in the public sector . Workforce challenge be a huge part of public service transformation . worker across Northern Ireland do fantastic work in health , education and justice , and they need to be support to do that and to be representative of the community . workforce issue be devolve , but they be important , and support our workforce , and work with union to do so , be an important part of our work together in an active partnership with the Executive . Speaker ' s Statement before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I wish to inform the House about my recent trip to Ukraine . it be at the invitation of Mr Ruslan Stefanchuk , Chairman of the Rada of Ukraine . I join Speakers from across Europe in a memorial service to mark the third anniversary of the Bucha massacre and to hear the important testimony of the survivor of that terrible atrocity . I also deliver a speech at the Bucha summit , which be open by the President of Ukraine . I take with I specific cross - party message of solidarity from the House of Commons , the Prime Minister , the Leader of the Opposition and the leader of the Liberal Democrats . the appreciation feel by the people of Ukraine for the support offer by this House and the people of the United Kingdom should not be underestimate . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] indeed , in his nightly address on Monday , President Zelensky explicitly express his thank to the United Kingdom for the support provide to Ukraine . oral Answers to Questions Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 2 April . to pick up on your comment , Mr Speaker , on Monday night I speak to President Zelensky . he want I to pass on his thank to you for attend in Ukraine , particularly on the third anniversary of the massacre at Bucha . I have be to Bucha , and this be a terrible , terrible third anniversary . we have be prepare for all eventuality ahead of the confirmation of US tariff later today . let I be clear with the House : a trade war be in nobody ' s interest . the country deserve , and we will take , a calm and pragmatic approach . that be why constructive talk be progress to agree a wide economic prosperity deal with the US . it be why we be work with all industry and sector likely to be impact . our decision will always be guide by our national interest . that be why we have prepare for all eventuality and will rule nothing out . our deep sympathy be with the people of Myanmar and Thailand . we be send immediate lifesaving support to assist their effort . may I also extend my personal condolence to the family , friend and colleague of Christina McKelvie ? she be much love and will be sorely miss , especially by our Scottish National party colleague here and in Scotland . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . this week , the full state pension will rise by £ 472 a year , put money in the pocket of pensioner in Glasgow and across the United Kingdom . do the Prime Minister agree that this rise be possible only because of labour ' s plan for change and our commitment to the triple lock ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we can commit to the triple lock because we have restore stability after the Conservatives crash the economy . that mean that , next week , 12 million pensioner will receive up to £ 470 more — that be an extra £ 1 , 900 over this Parliament — include 1 million pensioner in Scotland . the contrast could not be clear . the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , call the triple lock " unsustainable " , and the Leader of the Opposition want to means - test the state pension so that she can cut it . I call the Leader of the Opposition . the triple lock be a conservative policy — [ interruption . ] order . rather than the Prime Minister congratulate himself on what we do , why don ' t we talk about what he be do ? from Sunday , Labour ' s job tax will mean that many british business face a terrible choice : cut wage , put up price or sack their staff . what be his advice to those business ? the right hon . Lady say that the triple lock " be " a conservative policy . the Conservatives be once think to be the party of sound finance , but they blow all of that . she ask what we be do . we be clear up the mess that they leave , we be deal with global instability , and we recognise the pressure that be bear down on business , individual , and work people . that be why we be roll up our sleeve . yesterday , I be pleased to announce the national living wage increase by £ 1 , 400 . that be a pay rise for million of worker . we have announce £ 150 for the warm home discount , now extend to 6 million household , which be one in five family . wage be go up fast than price . never forget : under the conservative party there be the bad living standard on record , inflation up to 11 % , and public service leave on their knee . the only mess be the one that the Prime Minister make with his Budget . they have an emergency Budget last week that fix nothing . he say that he be bring stability , but all we see be fragility . during the election , the Prime Minister also promise that he would not increase taxis on work people , but even the Office for Budget Responsibility say that the job tax will be pass on to worker . on average , family will be £ 3 , 500 poor . why should anyone trust he again ? the right hon . Lady ' s fantasy figure be about as much use as Liz Truss ' s economic planning . she turn up every week to carp from the sideline about decision that we make in the Budget . yesterday , she hold a press conference and could not say whether she would reverse the decision that we make at the Budget . I understand , because she can not bring herself to say that she do not want the investment of an extra £ 26 billion in our NHS . I be not surprised at that , as that is 2 million extra appointment , 1 , 000 more GPs , a pay rise for nurse , and so on . let I get her position right , if I can follow it : she want the extra £ 26 billion in the NHS , which be pay for by the national insurance rise — she want that — but she do not want to reverse the national insurance rise . she be now reduce to this absurd position of voting against a Budget — carping against a Budget — that she actually agree with . I do not agree with make people poor . I do not agree with pensioner poverty . I do not agree — [ interruption . ] out there they be call it " Awful April " , and that be because of decision the Prime Minister have make , because he make promise , and break they . his promise be worthless . People be get poor . before the election he pledge to freeze council tax . instead , it be go up everywhere , even in Birmingham , where 17 , 000 tonne of rubbish go uncollected on the street . do the Prime Minister regret promise the british people that he would freeze their council tax , when he have so obviously fail ? I have to ask the right hon . Lady this : if she do not want people to be poor , why do she not resign when she be in government ? the last Government put up council tax for 12 year in a row . she , I think , be actually the Minister responsible for council tax and , in that year , what do she do ? she put it up . even now the Local Government Association Conservative Group manifesto state , on page 9 , its current position : " we ask that that the Government remove the cap on Council Tax " . who be lead the charge ? Hampshire county council want a 15 % hike ; we say no . Slough council want a hike ; we say no . Windsor and Maidenhead council — be Tory , now Lib Dem — want a hike , and we say no . it be no surprise that council tax be £ 300 cheap under Labour council than under Tory council . the Prime Minister do not want to talk about Birmingham , and that be because he know the situation . I will say it again : 17 , 000 tonne of rubbish on Birmingham ' s street . normally , a state of emergency be call for natural disaster , not labour one . his policy have leave our economy dangerously fragile . the Chancellor , once again , leave herself no room for manoeuvre . economic expert , real economist , say that she will either have to break her fiscal rule or put up taxis — which will it be ? I think the right hon . Lady must have pick up the script she be use a few week ago , because only then she be say that we be go to put up taxis in the spring statement . the situation in Birmingham be completely unacceptable , and I fully support the council in declare it a major incident to resolve the situation . we will put in whatever additional support be need . when the Conservatives be in government , we lose more day to strike action than in any year since the 1980 . nhs worker be on the picket line , not on the frontline , and that send waiting list through the roof , so we will take no lecture on industrial harmony from the Conservatives . the whole House would have hear that the Prime Minister do not say whether he could keep to his fiscal rule . that mean it be either change that or put up taxis . nine month ago , we leave Labour the fast - grow economy in the G7 . [ interruption . ] we do . I remember watch his mps laugh at their first destructive Budget . they have have another one that have make our economy dangerously vulnerable . the Bank of England say that his policy have push up the cost of live for family . do he disagree with the Bank , or do he accept his policy mean high bill ? the right hon . Lady must be the only person leave in the country who actually think the Tories do well on the economy when they be in power . that be what be test at the last election . living standard be the bad on record , and inflation soar up to 11 % . the NHS be on its knee . she be so obsessed with talk down the country that she have not read the OBR forecast properly . growth be up in 2026 , in 2027 , in 2028 and in 2029 . that be thank to our planning reform , the large growth measure the OBR have ever cost . what do the Tories do when that Bill come before Parliament ? they abstain . we do not grow the economy or build house by abstain . they be the same old party . they have not change . nothing ' s new . the Prime Minister talk about inflation . we leave it at 2 % . it be now twice what the OBR forecast when we be in government . the fact be that his decision have make our economy fragile , just as we face global trade war . in November , I urge he to seize the draft US trade deal that the Conservatives negotiate . instead , he lose our most experienced trade negotiator . it be no wonder he can not get a tariff deal for british car . the Conservatives secure investment for that industry , with £ 600 million from BMW , £ 2 billion from Nissan and £ 4 billion from Jaguar Land Rover . labour ' s record be a car industry in crisis , even before tariff , with 25 , 000 more job now at risk . he say he be prepare for all eventuality . can the Prime Minister tell we exactly what he be do to protect the british car industry from his failure to negotiate ? we be take a calm , pragmatic approach and keep our foot on the ground . constructive talk be ongoing on a wide economic prosperity deal with the US . that be really important at this moment . we be work with all sector that be likely to be impact , and we be guide by our national interest at all time , and that be why we have say we will not rule anything out , but it be important at a moment like this that we do not have knee - jerk reaction and that we be cool - headed about this . that be why we will not rule anything out . the right hon . Lady be the Trade Secretary who fail to get a trade deal with the US . today , the Trump Administration will announce new tariff that will hurt work people in the US and around the world . do the Prime Minister agree that , at a time when big tech have grow fat by corrupt our politic and preying on young people , the wrong approach would be to pander to his bullying tactic and the tech billionaire in his imperial court by cut the digital service tax ? can he assure the public that the poor will not get cut , while the rich get a free ride ? I thank the hon . member for raise this important issue . there be issue in relation to Northern Ireland in particular that we have to deal with very carefully . we will always put the national interest first , and that be why I be pleased that talk be ongoing , and they be constructive talk . I believe that a trade war be in nobody ' s interest , and all of the sector and industry impact be of the same view , so we will continue to make that progress in the national interest . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s early remark , particularly about Myanmar and Thailand . I support the aid ; despite the budget cut , I hope we can be as generous as possible because of the humanitarian crisis there . the Prime Minister have show commendable leadership over Ukraine , with his plan for a military coalition of the willing against Putin . will he now provide similar leadership with an economic coalition of the willing against Trump ' s tariff and for free trade , so we can avoid a global trade war and a global recession ? every week the right hon . Gentleman try to tempt I to make what I think be a false choice between our relationship with the US and our relationship with other country , particularly in Europe . I think that be the wrong choice on defence , on security and on intelligence , for reason that we have rehearse across this Chamber . I also think it be wrong on trade and on the economy . we have a good deal of trade — a balanced trade relationship — with the US , and I believe that our interest be well serve by calmly try to secure a deal that be in our national interest , while at the same time prepare and leave all option on the table . I hope the Prime Minister be able to cut a deal , but I increasingly fear that the deal will not be good enough to avoid a global trade war . that be why one of the option must be to work with our european ally , our Commonwealth ally and other , because if we do not tackle trump ' s tariff we could be say goodbye to free trade for a generation . turn to a domestic matter , three year ago the american private equity firm KKR buy a 25 % stake in Northumbrian Water . since then , people across the north - east have see their water bill soar , while in the last year alone Northumbrian Water have dump nearly 1 million tonne of raw sewage into Durham ' s Whitburn coast conservation area . KKR be now poise to buy into Thames Water , because minister have rule out a special administration regime . will the Prime Minister guarantee that Thames Water will not be allow to repeat the same trick of put up bill and dump raw sewage at the same time ? the Conservatives allow it ; he should not . in relation to the beginning of the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment , I really do not think it be sensible to say that the first response should be to jump into a trade war with the US . that can not be the first response of the United Kingdom , and I will resist his urging to do that . in relation to water , the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to point out the conservative party ' s appal record on water , just like its record on everything . that be why I be pleased that we have already pass the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 to take the necessary measure , but we will go far . yesterday , the Work and Pensions Committee visit Manchester , where we see the power of devolution in action , in this case help people to find work . with just 5 percentage point separate Labour and conservative candidate at the last mayoral election , do the Prime Minister agree that to get the maximum advantage from Labour ' s devolution offer , the west of England need an ambitious labour mayor in Helen Godwin , for more job , to fix our bus and to get the home we need build ? I believe it be good for community when their leader have skin in the game . Helen Godwin grow up in Stapleton , go to college in Filton and have a great record fighting for the community where she be raise her family . our plan for change have deliver record funding for the west of England : more money for well bus , pothole and get young people into work . that be the difference a Labour mayor work with a Labour Government deliver for the west of England . the Prime Minister will know that many in the House will be assuage by his suggestion that he will act in the national interest in relation to tariff , but most will not have consider that , in act in the national interest , what occur in Northern Ireland be no long solely in his control . he know that export from Northern Ireland be UK export , and rightly so , yet import to Northern Ireland could be affect as a consequence of EU retaliatory action . in keep all his option open , now we have to live in a world of the consequence of the last Government with his support . will he indicate whether he be prepared to take step either to exempt Northern Ireland from EU action or to take retaliatory action if the EU do not do so ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this issue , which be of real importance to his constituent and to everybody in Northern Ireland . it be a very serious issue . that be why we need to be calm and pragmatic , and that be what worker and business in Northern Ireland would want to see from this Government at a time like this . we be , as he would expect , look carefully at the detail of any retaliatory tariff announce by the EU , if they be announce , and what impact they might have on business . as he know , where good do not enter the EU , business can claim a full reimbursement of any EU duty pay , but I reassure he that the interest of Northern Ireland be at the forefront of our decision . he may want to know that this morning the Business Secretary speak to the Northern Ireland Executive , because this be a serious issue and we need to work together to resolve it in the interest of everybody in Northern Ireland . while the last Government resort to damage keyboard diplomacy , this Government be lead , bring 14 nation together this week to tackle illegal immigration . like the Prime Minister , I have see at first hand how counter - terror power can disrupt threat before life be lose . that same approach be essential in dismantle the smuggling network . do he agree that it be time that the Conservatives and Reform drop the posturing , put national security first and back our border Bill ? the Conservatives try an open border experiment ; we be now tackle illegal migration . they talk about flight ; we have already remove 24 , 000 people with no right to be here . under their Rwanda scheme , which be only ever suppose to return , I think , 300 people a year , what we have achieve in nine month would have take they 80 year . we have replace a gimmick with a real deterrent . the Prime Minister have speak very movingly , and with genuine sincerity and affection , about his time as a young man in the Langdale valley in the Lake district in my constituency and how that help to shape he . I wonder whether he be aware that the hill farmer who maintain those stunning landscape in the lake and elsewhere will be earn on average significantly less than or barely half of the national minimum wage due to cut in their income , despite the fact that they provide the backdrop to the remarkably important tourism economy . will he agree to meet I and upland farmer in the lake and the dale so that we can design a scheme together to end this poverty and equip our hill farmer to produce food and protect our epic landscape for generation to come ? the hon . Gentleman and I share a love of the Lake district . we still go back there with our child . this be obviously a serious issue , which be why we put a record amount into farming at the Budget and also set out our road map . I will happily make sure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister to go through that and to take on board any point he have to make in relation to it . hundred of resident in my constituency at Union Park be face massive £ 1 million charge to repair their heating system and for fire safety work that have not be put right by the developer , which have now declare bankruptcy and walk away . their new freeholder have wash its hand of responsibility and be instead leverage huge ground rent bill and fine against those resident . do the Prime Minister agree that that be exactly why we have to move forward with our plan , much delay by the Conservatives , to abolish the outdated leasehold system once and for all as part of our plan for change ? the Deputy Prime Minister be say , " absolutely " , in my ear . we will end the feudal leasehold system which have leave million of homeowner subject to unfair cost and unreasonable practice . our reform include clear standard for repair and maintenance , and that will give homeowner a great say in how their home be manage . I know the Housing Minister will have hear what my hon . Friend say . this Labour Government have fail the british public at every turn : they have abandon the WASPI woman , leave they without the compensation they deserve ; they have turn their back on pensioner by fail to support the winter fuel allowance ; they have let down child by keep the two - child benefit cap in place ; and they will inflict further hardship on the most vulnerable by slash £ 5 billion from benefit . perhaps the most immediate and visible failure , which pose an immediate and direct health risk to the people of Birmingham , be the appalling financial mismanagement of Labour - run Birmingham city council . after more than a decade of Labour control , that council ' s incompetence have lead to mountain of uncollected rubbish pile up on every street , so large that they can be see by satellite orbit in space . it be nothing short of a disgrace and a damn indictment of labour ' s inability to govern . will the Prime Minister take urgent action to protect public health and the people of Birmingham by immediately deploy the — Order . we be mean to ask quick question , otherwise nobody be go to get in . I have say that the situation in Birmingham council be completely unacceptable , but the hon . Gentleman might want to tell his constituent that we have deliver 2 million extra appointment for the NHS , so waiting list be come down for they . we have deliver a £ 1 , 400 increase in the national living wage , include for his constituent , and we have get record investment into this country , grow the economy , include for his constituent . my constituent be grafter — they want to work , and they want to see opportunity create and the skill and investment in infrastructure that we need for the future . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment to fix the transport system in the north of England , which have be hold we back , and I invite he to the Atom Valley development zone in my constituency to discuss how we can create skilled job in north Greater Manchester . I be grateful for my hon Friend ' s question . we will unlock growth across the country in partnership with local leader , give power to those with skin in the game , and we will fix the north ' s broken transport system — another thing that the Conservatives leave in a complete mess — through nearly £ 1 . 7 billion for local bus , road and tram , an additional £ 415 million to upgrade the trans - Pennine route , and fix million of pothole . obviously , I will consider my hon . friend ' s kind invitation . since the Prime Minister and I last speak , more than 6 , 000 people have sign an open letter to the Health Secretary in support of North Devon district hospital , which face a 10 - year wait for urgent repair . why be that hospital still be deny a ministerial visit , and will the Government consider the trust ' s emergency plan and meet I and the trust , so that we can discuss keep the operate theatre open beyond 2027 to meet capacity ? as I say in our previous exchange , obviously the unfunded promise — the fantasy promise — of the conservative party mean that the hon . Gentleman ' s hospital would never have be deliver . [ interruption . ] conservative member should not moan ; they should apologise to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . we have to take tough decision to make the programme deliverable , which be what we have do . we will continue to support the trust to maintain facility in advance of the new hospital investment , and the Minister for Secondary Care will be visit that hospital , which I hope will be an opportunity to have the necessary discussion . Stone Lodge academy , a special school in Ipswich , will be one of the first school in the country to benefit from a new breakfast club this month . that be an important step in tackle Suffolk ' s decade - long special educational need and disability crisis , as be the multimillion - pound funding settlement give to open new specialist place across the county . will the Prime Minister outline what step he will be take to break down the barrier to opportunity far for all child as part of our plan for change ? I be very pleased to say that the first 750 breakfast club will open this month . I be pleased that there be an early adopter in my hon . friend ' s constituency , as well as in the constituency of the Leader of the Opposition — I be sure she will welcome that one of these week . that will put £ 450 a year back in the pocket of work people . today , we have award £ 37 million to 300 primary school to create up to 4 , 000 nursery place from September , make it easy for work family to access government - fund childcare . some 2 , 700 worker at Scunthorpe steelwork be face redundancy , plus many more in the supply chain , and many of those people be my constituent . it be welcome that negotiation be continue , but whatever the outcome , the local economy be go to need significant support . all those affect would appreciate it and be reassure if the Prime Minister could give an indication that he be personally take an interest in this matter , and if at some point in the not too distant future , he would meet I , neighbouring mp and the council leader to discuss the way forward . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that . I do take a personal interest . a short while ago , I go to Scunthorpe to talk to the management and worker to understand the challenge at first hand and how deeply worry this will be for those work there , their family and the community as a whole , which be why negotiation be take place . I call on the company to accept the offer of financial support that have be advance , so that we can achieve a sustainable future for the workforce , the industry and the local community , because I believe that there be , and need to be , a bright future for steel . as I have say , I do take a personal interest in this . too many of my constituent be struggle to obtain an appointment with a gp . the GPs be try their good , but they too be struggle , with capacity issue , outdated building and outdated technology , all because the conservative party break the front door to the national health service . can the Prime Minister reassure my constituent that our plan for investment and reform will ensure that they can see a gp when they need one ? we be focus on deliver real result for patient by scrap unnecessary target , bring back the family doctor , and require online booking , which will help deal with the 8 am scramble . we be invest an additional £ 889 million to reinforce the front door of the NHS . that be the big increase for more than a decade , and it mean that there will be hundred more gps since we come to power . this week , we have announce record investment to enable community pharmacy to deliver more service for patient , and to free up gp time . a recent NHS England report lay bare the catalogue of failure that leave a patient with a history of violent aggression unconfined , untreated and completely unmedicated for nine month , until he kill Ian Coates and the young friend Grace o ' Malley - Kumar and Barnaby Webber , from Taunton in my constituency . will the Prime Minister join I and the people of Taunton in pay tribute to the family who have campaign on this matter ? will he confirm that a public inquiry be to begin ? give the 50 % cut to the cost of integrated care board , will he also confirm that mental health service , both in the community and secure , will not suffer as a result of those cut ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that tragic case , and I pay tribute to the family . when it come to case such as this , I often find it hard to think how I would respond if I be a family member in such circumstance . I be not sure that I would have the courage that those family have to campaign in the way that they have do , and I pay tribute to they for it . we need to get to the bottom of all these issue , wherever they may lie , and that be what we will do . my constituent be struggle to gain access to the healthcare that they desperately need , and one in six scot be on a waiting list . meanwhile , in England , the waiting list have be come down for the last five month , and more than 2 million appointment have be make available . do the Prime Minister agree that the SNP - lead Government should stop blame everyone else for their failure , when Scotland ' s broken public service be their responsibility ? my hon . friend be right . More than 60 , 000 scot have be stick wait for test or treatment for over a year . that be a 46 % rise in one year . I have to check that figure because it be so staggering . despite the backlog , nearly 50 , 000 few operation be be perform than be perform before the pandemic . let we compare that with the situation in England , where we have drive down waiting list with more than 2 million extra appointment , and have scrap NHS England to cut bureaucracy . Scotland ' s NHS be in desperate need of reform , but the Scottish National party have no strategy , no plan and no idea . early , the Prime Minister seem reluctant to answer a direct question about his job tax . next time he visit my constituency to enjoy the beautiful Buckinghamshire surrounding of Chequers , will he go five minute up the road to Wendover , and explain to Kate Rumsey of Rumsey ' s Handmade Chocolates why his choice and those of his Chancellor have lead to a 15 % increase in cost for that business ? as a result , it have already have to lay people off , and have have to reduce the hour of those whom it still employ . be that what he mean by growth ? I be happy to tell anyone why : the Conservatives leave a £ 22 billion black hole . they crash the economy , they ruin our public service and , as we mend and rebuild the country , they carp from the sideline . even now , they can not bring themselves to say that they do not want the investment , or that they will reverse the decision we have make . they actually agree with the decision we have make , because we be clear up the mess that they leave . one year ago yesterday , my constituent James Henderson be kill with other aid worker from World Central Kitchen when take humanitarian aid into Gaza . Jim ' s family have tell I that he would want confirmation from our Government that we be take all conceivable step to make sure that aid , power and supply be safely return to Gaza . could the PM confirm that he be do all he can to ensure this ? could he also confirm that he will continue to push for a full investigation into the death of Jim and the other british WCK worker to be complete , and for appropriate action to be take ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this appalling incident , and our thought remain with the family of Jim , John Chapman and James Kirby . attack on aid worker be never justify . the family deserve justice , and we be press the israeli Government to accelerate their investigation , include into whether criminal proceeding should be initiate . Israel must stop block aid to Gaza , the hostage must be release , and we must have an urgent resumption of the ceasefire . double child rapist and murderer Colin Pitchfork be up for parole for the fifth time . I know the Prime Minister do not have direct control — nor should he — over the Parole Board , but he do have a view . I have ask this of all his predecessor , and I will now put the question to he : do he agree that man who brutally rape and strangle to death young woman should , as a matter of a principle , spend most of their natural life in prison ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise this appalling case , and I absolutely agree with he that there must be maximum penalty for anyone fall into that category . I see many of these case for myself , at first hand , when I be a prosecutor for five year , and work with the police on really terrible case , and I know the impact that such crime have on victim . I thank he for raise this . British Indian Ocean Territory ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the status of the negotiation surround the future sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory . I thank the right hon . Lady for her question . as we and Mauritius have repeatedly say , include in joint statement on 20 December and 13 January , both side remain committed to conclude a deal on the future of the Chagos archipelago that protect the long - term effective operation of the joint UK - US base on Diego Garcia . we be now work with Mauritius to finalise the agreement , and although it be in everybody ' s interest to progress the deal quickly , we have never put an exact date on it , and we do not intend to do so now . follow signature , the Government will bring forward a Bill to enable the implementation of the treaty , and Parliament will of course have the opportunity to scrutinise the treaty in the usual way before ratification . I repeat that the Government inherit a situation in which the long - term future of the military base be under threat . this deal be root in a rational and hard - head determination to protect UK security and that of our ally . it will protect the base on Diego Garcia , and cement the UK and US presence in the Indo - Pacific for generation to come . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . it be incredibly disappointing that , only a day after Foreign Office oral question , Ministers have have to be haul back to the House to explain what be go on . yesterday at lunch time , Downing Street brief that the agreement between the UK and Mauritius , under which the UK would give away the Chagos island and pay for the privilege , have be finalise . that be not say in this House yesterday . the Prime Minister of Mauritius have also issue a public statement confirm that . despite be interrogate on this botched deal in the Chamber yesterday , Ministers give no indication of this very significant development . we be still completely in the dark about fundamental question of enormous importance . how many billion of pound of hard - press british taxpayer ' money will we be expect to fork out to lease back territory that we already own ? this come as vulnerable pensioner be have their winter fuel payment rip away , and family farm and business be be punish with new taxis by this Labour Government . what safeguard will be in place to protect the military base on Diego Garcia from other state that may try to establish a foothold on the archipelago ? minister have so far refuse to publish even a map of the buffer zone . what happen to the vital military base on Diego Garcia at the end of the treaty , and what kind of sovereign right , if any , will we be able to exercise over Diego Garcia in the meantime ? the Prime Minister of Mauritius say that he force change to the arrangement on the exercise of sovereign right and the lease extension . will the Minister finally confirm that the account give by the Prime Minister of Mauritius be correct ? he can not simply stand here and avoid these question . the House do deserve answer ; so do the british public — the taxpayer . put simply , the British Indian Ocean Territory should remain british , but Labour have prioritise appease the whim of left - wing lawyer and activist , rather than stand up for our national interest . it be high time this deal be ditch . finally , there have be report of imply military threat to the Chagos island , a british sovereign territory — Labour Members may laugh , but this issue be fundamental to the security of our country — from the regime in Tehran . the iranian regime have threaten this space . these purport military threat be important . we understand that , in response to such report , there have be an unusual build - up of american bomber aircraft and equipment - carry aircraft at the joint UK - US military base on Diego Garcia . this be very serious , and we clearly need to take these threat seriously . we would welcome clarity about the Foreign Office ' s diplomatic response on this issue . on parliamentary accountability for this issue , I have answer no few than five urgent question on the subject in the last six month , and I have answer 130 write question from she and her colleague . we discuss this twice at Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office question yesterday . as I have repeatedly say , when the detail of the treaty be finalise , it will be present to this House , and there will be full scrutiny in the usual way . I have explain that a Bill will be bring in to put into force the important aspect of the treaty that require legislative change , and there will of course be full debate , as there should be , in this House . I simply reject the basis of much of the right hon . Lady ' s question . as I have say repeatedly , if there be not a problem , why do the Government of whom she be a part start negotiation , and go through 11 round of they ? there be a significant challenge , and this deal be paramount for our national security . we will not scrimp on our security , and it be important that the deal be put in place , as have be recognise by all the party . we will only agree a deal that be in the UK ' s good interest and protect our national security . importantly , the right hon . Lady ask about the security provision to protect the base . these will include full UK control over Diego Garcia , include control of the electromagnetic spectrum , and unrestricted access to and use of the base , as well as a buffer zone around Diego Garcia in which nothing can be build or put in place without our consent . there will be a robust mechanism and review process to ensure that no activity on the outer island can impinge on the base ' s operation . indeed , there will be a prohibition on the presence of foreign security force , either civilian or military , on the outer island . as the Prime Minister have say , the full detail will of course be set out when the treaty be lay before Parliament , and that will include cost . we will not scrimp on security . the right hon . Lady ask an important question in relation to Iran . she will understand that for operational reason and as a matter of policy , we do not offer comment or information relate to foreign nation ' military aircraft movement or operation . the UK , in close co - operation with our ally in the United States , closely monitor the security environment in the indian ocean region to identify and mitigate any potential threat to the base on Diego Garcia . I share the Minister ' s bafflement at the Opposition ' s utter obsession with this issue . can he confirm that under the agreement , the vital US - UK military base and its operation will be completely unaltered ? I share my hon . friend ' s bafflement . with so many issue go on in the world , I do question the number of time this one have be raise . we have answer all the question before . we welcome the fact that the United States recognise the strength of the deal . it be root in a rational and hard - head determination to protect UK security and that of our ally . once sign , it will protect the base on Diego Garcia , which be under threat , and cement the presence of the UK and the US in the Indo - Pacific . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . follow yesterday ' s intervention by President Trump , it appear that the White House have the final say on the future of sovereign british territory . meanwhile , the Chagossians continue to be ignore . the process of secure the deal have be shambolic . chagossian have be deny their right to a say , and it be shameful how they have be treat . will the Minister confirm whether there be any plan to ensure that the Chagossians be finally include in discussion at this eleventh hour of the negotiation ? hard - work family around the country will rightly be question why the Government seem to be willing , reportedly , to negotiate such significant payment to Mauritius at a time when winter fuel payment have be scrap . the confected consternation of the Conservatives be also bemuse , give that it be their Foreign Secretary who first signal the UK ' s intention to secure an agreement . as the Minister confirm , the treaty must come before the House for scrutiny , especially give its importance to our national security . can he confirm when that will happen and that this House will have a vote on any final deal ? it be absolutely right , as I have say on many occasion , that the new United States Administration have a chance to consider the agreement . we welcome the fact that the United States recognise the strength of the deal — we hear the comment that have be make — and that be because it will fundamentally protect UK and US security interest . I remind the hon . Lady that we have legal obligation with the United States in relation to the operation of the base and it be only right that it be consult , with full engagement in the process . the hon . Lady ask about the Chagossians . we deeply regret , as I have say many time , the way Chagossians be remove from the island , but the negotiation be between the UK and Mauritius , with our priority be to secure the full operation of the base on Diego Garcia . however , we have work hard to ensure that the agreement reflect the importance of the island to Chagossians . I have set out to the House a number of time the mechanism and system that will be in place to do that . it be really important to respect the many different view within the chagossian community . there be not one settle view . for example , the Chagos Refugees Group , one of the large chagossian group , have in fact welcome the agreement . can the Minister confirm that the confirmation of the legal status of the base on Diego Garcia will strengthen our influence in the Asia - Pacific and put we in a strong position to counter the influence of China ? I absolutely can . our national security , and that of our ally , have be at the heart of the agreement . there be a significant problem . the former Government know that , which be why they start negotiate . we have complete the deal , with the full involvement of the United States and with consideration of all the important measure , which I have set out on many occasion , to keep the base safe . the Minister know the regard I have for he , but when he say he have appear at the Dispatch Box many time with this information , he know that it have have nothing to do with give we information — it mean he be drag here . the question I want to ask — the no . 1 question , which be not cover in the detail he set out today — be how much will taxpayer pay for this settlement , and out of which budget will it come ? can he guarantee that at no stage will it come from the defence budget increase ? as I say yesterday , a financial element over 99 year be crucial to protect the operation of such a vital base — we will not scrimp on our security . once the treaty be sign , it will be put before the House for scrutiny before ratification in the usual way , and that will include the cost . the right hon . Gentleman ask where the budget be come from . the term of the treaty and the associate funding arrangement be still be finalise . financial obligation , include departmental budgetary responsibility , will , of course , be manage responsibly within the Government ' s fiscal framework . do the Minister agree that it be vital the UK Government fulfil their obligation under international law ? do he recognise that the January 2021 bind judgment of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea — [ interruption ] — which be hand down under the Conservative Government , find that the UK ' s current administration of the archipelago " constitute a wrongful act … and … must be bring to an end as rapidly as possible " ? there do appear to be some confusion about the different legal judgment among the opposition , as I can hear from the chuntering . there be a number of way in which the operation of the base be not sustainable . we be very clear that without a deal — as the previous Government recognise — we would face serious , real - world operational impact on the base that would erode our ability to operate key frequency vital for our own communication and to counter hostile state , affect everything from overflight clearance to secure contractor , with consequential rocketing cost , decline investment and a degraded facility . we be not willing to take that risk , and have therefore secure this base for our security and that of our ally . the United States be busy increase its presence on Diego Garcia , most recently with its B - 2 Spirit aircraft , probably face towards Iran . give that , how much will the Trump White House be contribute to the endowment that the Minister propose we hand to Mauritius ? as I have set out on a number of occasion , and again today , when we present the treaty , we will present the cost and the arrangement , and the House will have the chance to scrutinise they . we welcome the fact that the United States recognise the strength of this deal , which be because it be root in a rational and hard - head determination to protect our security and that of the United States , and our presence in the Indo - Pacific . as I say before , I be not go to get into operational discussion about matter at the base in relation to the presence of aircraft . I thank the Minister and his team for their tireless effort to secure the future of this vital base , which be exactly the right thing to do . will he assure I that no less than the most robust of security provision will be in place ? I can absolutely assure my hon . friend of that fact ; it have be at the core of the detail of this arrangement . we will retain full control over Diego Garcia and have robust provision to keep adversary out , include unrestricted access to and use of the base for the United Kingdom and the United States , the buffer zone I mention , the comprehensive mechanism to prevent activity on the other island threaten the base operation , and a ban on the presence of foreign security force . in all inhabit british overseas territory , british sovereignty flow , in my opinion , from the self - determination of the islander and resident , and that be exactly the same with the British Indian Ocean Territory . even though the population be displace , british sovereignty flow from Chagossians and their right to self - determination . I ask the Minister again what effort he have make to engage with the wide possible constituency of Chagossians , and whether he will give they a veto over this deal if it be not acceptable to they . the island be not permanently inhabit , and that be one of the fundamental issue in this situation . as I have say repeatedly , we be do many thing that will be supportive of the chagossian community , include engage with a number of different group . there be a range of opinion , and I think it be important that we recognise that — there be , of course , some who support this deal . we continue to put the interest of the Chagossians at the heart of this agreement . again , full detail of that will be available in due course . yet again , the opposition be attempt to sow division between the UK and its ally , and indeed to share our ally ' sensitive operational information . if they succeed , it will have impact on our strategically vital relationship with the US and India . do my hon . friend agree that the opposition should consider wait until the treaty be ready for scrutiny , rather than damage our vital national interest in this way ? I completely agree — I think some of the speculation have be hugely unhelpful . we have be hugely grateful for the close co - operation between the United Kingdom and the United States throughout the negotiation , and to the Administration for their extensive and detailed engagement , which have help we to make progress on this deal . as my hon . friend rightly point out , this agreement have be welcome by other important partner , include India . China have not welcome it , of course , because it know that the agreement will strengthen the presence of the United Kingdom and the United States in the region . today mark the 43rd anniversary of the start of the war in the Falklands — another key overseas territory . government member keep refer to the non - bind advisory judgment as the basis of the Chagos deal . if the Argentinians be to seek a similar judgment against the Falklands , would the Minister cede control ? I have to say , as I have say on a number of occasion in this House , that such attempt to make a false comparison be extremely unhelpful , and would not be welcome by the resident of the Falkland Islands . I can absolutely assure the hon . Lady that our support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Falkland Islands be absolute and iron - clothe . I have make that clear on many occasion , as have the Minister for the Armed Forces and the Government as a whole . will the Minister confirm once again that any agreement that be make will return to this House for scrutiny ? my hon . Friend ask a very important question . as I have set out , there will be multiple opportunity for this House and the other place to consider this matter , not only through the normal Constitutional Reform and Governance Act process , but through the Bill that will be bring forward to make the necessary provision under the treaty , which will go through the normal process . full scrutiny will be afford to member of this House . the President and Vice - President of the United States have make clear their detestation of country freeload on defence and security matter . we be not ask for the detail , we be not even ask for the quantum , but we do deserve to know in this House today whether the Government have ask the US to contribute to the base on Diego Garcia that be so vital to it — yes or no ? as I have say on a number of occasion , we welcome the US endorsement of the deal and of its strength , and we be grateful for the close co - operation between the United Kingdom and the United States . the full detail will be provide when the treaty be present to the House . I thank my hon . and gallant Friends the Members for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) and for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) for their question . can the Minister confirm that this agreement will close potentially dangerous route for irregular migration ? be that possibly one of the reason the Conservatives open and preside over 10 round of negotiation on it ? I can absolutely confirm that . that be also why we agree an important arrangement as an interim with St Helena , which I have speak to the House about . that have absolutely be at the heart of it , but our primary objective have be to protect the national security of the United Kingdom , our ally the United States and our partner . I want to go back to the question from the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) and for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , and indeed the question I ask the Minister the last time this issue be raise in the House . the Minister be well aware that what we be talk about be primarily a US base . surely he can at least tell the House today that conversation have be hold with the US , and that it fully understand that a compensatory package will be make and that there be a question over who will primarily contribute to that package . can he make that clear to the House today ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the answer I give a moment ago . we be absolutely clear that the United States recognise the strength of this deal . we have have excellent co - operation with the US throughout . the full detail will be provide in due course . not only be the Government prepare to give away sovereign british territory , but they be prepare to pay for the privilege of do so by hand over billion to Mauritius . the Minister can not say where the money be come from , but can he at least agree that that money would be well spend restore the winter fuel payment to pensioner in need and relieve social care provider , hospice and charity from their national insurance increase here in the UK , rather than be hand over to Mauritius ? quite frankly , the hon . member neglect to mention the shocking mess that his former Government leave we to inherit . I have be clear in this House on many occasion that we will not scrimp when it come to the national security of this country , whether that be in relation to Diego Garcia or investment in defence and our armed force . that be exactly what my hon . friend the Minister for the Armed Forces and the Defence Secretary have be set out on our wide defence spending . what we be do in this deal be protect our national security and defence and that of our ally the United States . the Minister will have hear the feeling of the House , so can he provide we with the specific guarantee that the Foreign Secretary have secure in relation to prevent hostile state such as China from increase their influence in the Chagos island while we as a nation be still pay for they ? the hon . Member have ask an important question , and I have answer it a number of time . to reiterate , there will be robust security provision in that regard . that be why China have not welcome this deal . we will have full UK control with the United States over Diego Garcia . we will have a buffer zone around Diego Garcia , and we will have a robust mechanism to ensure that no activity in the outer island can impinge on the base ' s operation . crucially , there will be a prohibition on the presence of foreign security force on the outer island , either civilian or military . what a disgrace this shabby Chagos deal be turn out to be . labour be not just give away our national security ; they be go to pay billion to Mauritius for the pleasure . instead of raise taxis on people and business in this country , why do the Minister not stand up for Britain and stop this deal ? we be stand up for Britain , by defend our security and that of our ally , and we will not scrimp on that . it be critical to secure the operation of this base . it be crucial to our interest and that of our ally . as I have ask many time , if there be no problem , why do the hon . member ' s former Government start negotiate over this ? this be perhaps a question for the Minister for the Armed Forces , who I notice be also on the Front Bench . on the buffer zone , can the Minister state categorically that it will be sufficiently wide to protect all the capability on the base ? yes . surrender sovereign territory base on a non - bind legal judgment and fork out taxpayer money for the privilege — what kind of deal be that ? it be one do behind closed door , evade the scrutiny of this House . do the Minister agree that this deal be a prime example of what happen when we have a Government of lawyer , for lawyer , rather than a Government for the british people ? I simply reject the premise of the hon . member ' s question . the Government inherit a situation where the effective operation of the base be under threat . claim that we negotiate this deal simply because of the 2019 International Court of Justice advisory opinion be wrong . that be not the only challenge that we face , as the previous Government know . without a deal , Mauritius would have inevitably pursue a legally bind judgment , and there would be huge implication from that . not have a deal would affect the real - world operational functionality of the base , which be so crucial to our national security and that of our ally . the Minister make reference to the UK have full control over Diego Garcia , but early this month I receive this response from he : " the right to operate and maintain the naval support facility Diego Garcia be hold by the Government of the United States . this include function as be necessary for the development , use , maintenance , operation and security of the facility . " will he explain what control we would have over Naval Support Facility Diego Garcia in the event that US and UK defence priority do not align , and at what level the control over the base lie ? the hon . Member ask an important question . the US operate its naval support facility , and although I will not get into the operational detail of that for obvious reason , the full detail will be provide . I can absolutely assure he that we will have control over Diego Garcia and will be work closely with the United States over it . as we come to the end of this urgent question , I be still no clear on the substance of this disastrous deal , so the House must now make assumption . give that the Minister be sit next to the Minister for the Armed Forces , can we assume that this deal will be come out from the Ministry of Defence ? naturally , the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Defence work closely together on this matter , as indeed department do across all Government . I have be very clear that the term of the treaty and the associate funding arrangement be still be finalise . the responsibility will be manage responsibly within the Government ' s fiscal framework . as for understand the reason for this deal and why it be necessary , I suggest that the hon . Member ask some of his formerly ministerial colleague on the conservative Benches . the Minister be an incredibly honourable man , and he be much like in this House , so I say this with all gentleness . my constituent be tell I that the deal with the indian ocean territory be overwhelming and that the cost factor be something that they can not quite understand — and neither can I . do the Minister understand why pensioner in my constituency and across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be wonder why , at a time of reduced help and aid , the Government be hand over sovereignty of land and then rent it back at a cost to the public purse ? will the Minister outline where the money will come from , when it have be decide that pensioner and ill people on personal independence payment can not have the support they deserve due to the lack of money within Government ? I know that the hon . Gentleman ask his question with sincerity , and he be much like in this place too . I suggest that he make it clear to his constituent that a financial element to this deal be crucial to protect operation . it be crucial for the security of his citizen in Strangford and the citizen of the United Kingdom and of the United States , and our interest overseas . some of the figure that have be quote in the medium be simply inaccurate , and of course , this will happen over a 99 - year period . we will not scrimp when it come to our security . it be important that we invest in it , and that be exactly what this Government be do . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . be it relevant to the question we have just have ? it be link to the comment of the liberal spokesperson , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) . in her question to the Minister , she note that the winter fuel payment have be scrap . this be simply not true . the winter fuel payment have not be scrap , it have be mean - test , and to say otherwise be misleading . it be similar to when the Liberal Democrat - Tory coalition Government mean - test child benefit — order . I think we have get the gist ; it be a point of clarification rather than a point of order , and the hon . Lady have get it on the record . let we move on . Gaza : israeli Military Operations ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Foreign Secretary to make a statement about the israeli Government ' s announcement that they be expand their military operation in Gaza . we be deeply concerned about the resumption of hostility in Gaza . the UK do not support an expansion of Israel ' s military operation . continue fighting and more bloodshed be in nobody ' s interest . all party , include Israel , must observe international humanitarian law . we urge all party to return to dialogue and ceasefire negotiation , ensure the return of all who have endure unimaginable suffering . it be clear that this conflict can not be win by bomb and bullet , but by diplomacy . aid should never be use as a political tool . Israel must restart the flow of aid immediately . block good supply and power from enter Gaza risk breach international humanitarian law , and it should not be happen . we be do everything we can to alleviate that situation . Gaza be also the most dangerous place in the world to be an aid worker . over 400 aid worker have be kill since the start of the conflict . despite renew fighting , the United Nations and humanitarian organisation must be able to deliver their vital work . a year on from the appalling attack on World Central Kitchen aid worker , lesson have not be learn . we be appal at recent attack on aid worker , which include the attack on a United Nations Office for Project Services guest house and the killing of at least eight palestinian Red Crescent medic . our thought be with the victim and their family . those responsible must be hold accountable . the Government of Israel must urgently ensure that there be effective deconfliction mechanism in place to enable agency to deliver their impartial mandate safely . on 28 March , the UK and France call an urgent UN Security Council meeting to discuss the risk face humanitarian aid worker in Gaza . since the hostility resume , the Foreign Secretary have speak to Secretary Rubio , special envoy Steve Witkoff , the israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa ' ar , the israeli Minister for Strategic Affairs Ron Dermer , the EU high representative Kallas and the UN emergency relief co - ordinator Tom Fletcher . a return to a ceasefire be the only way we will bring the conflict to an end and return to negotiation for a last peace in the region . that be the only way to deliver the two - state solution that we all want to see . both Israelis and Palestinians have the right to live in peace and security . the israeli Government ' s brutal decision to expand their military operation in Gaza be not about security ; it be about domination and erasure . it come on top of 18 month of collective punishment , include , since 2 March , the long aid blockade since the war begin . I welcome the Minister ' s confirmation that the UK do not support the israeli Government ' s expand military operation in Gaza . will he now finally name what be happen as genocide and undertake a structural investigation into genocide and other crime under international law commit in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories ? to ensure that the UK be not complicit in Israel ' s ongoing genocide , illegal occupation and system of apartheid , will the Minister immediately suspend the direct and indirect supply , sale or transfer — include transit and tran - shipment — to Israel of all weapon , munition and other military and security equipment ? will he immediately suspend the provision of training and other military and security assistance and recognise that , otherwise , there be a clear risk of contribute to the commission of serious violation of international humanitarian law and international human right law , include crime under international law ? as the Minister mention , the UK be a significant provider of humanitarian aid to the region . what assessment have he make of the impact of today ' s report on the humanitarian crisis ? although he touch on this lightly , give the UK ' s level of influence with israeli authority , will he confirm that he will use his position to actively oppose current and planned attempt by Israel to establish a permanent military presence in Gaza , and to oppose move to alter Gaza ' s border and demographic make - up or to shrink its territory , include through any expand buffer zone and construction of permanent checkpoint ? the hon . Lady ask a series of important question . as I have say to the House on a number of occasion , determination of breach of international law be for competent court and we support those court in their work . on weapon , I want to be clear that we continue to stand by the assessment that we make soberly in September and the suspension of license that that involve . the hon . Lady ask about the UK ' s view on a permanent presence in Gaza . I be happy to restate our policy now . we welcome the proposal by arab nation , call the arab initiative , which would allow for a reconstruction of Gaza , the safe return of Palestinians who have be displace , and for those remain in Gaza to rebuild their life without forced displacement , which we oppose . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . we have have several urgent question and statement on Gaza over the last few month . each time , I have come to the Chamber and ask the government : what be plan b ? what be plan b when Israel end the ceasefire , which be what have happen ? what be plan b when Israel ' s far - right government choose their survival over the life of the remain hostage , which be what seem to have happen ? what be plan b when annexation of either the west bank or Gaza be not just threaten but actually happen , which be what be happen now ? my question be this : what be the Government do to turn our ally ’ head from american trade war and towards the tragedy unfolding in the middle east , to do whatever they can to restore a ceasefire and the road to peace ? my right hon . friend , who have be press on these issue for some time , be right to raise those question . she ask whether there be a plan b . in all of my experience , there can be no plan b in Israel - Palestine ; there be only one route , which be widely understand by our ally in the region and beyond , and it must be a two - state solution . the route to a two - state solution must involve compliance with international humanitarian law . it be clear even from the short exchange that we have already have in the Chamber that the british Government ' s policy and the israeli Government ' s policy differ . they will continue to differ until we return to a pathway to a two - state solution . there be no plan b . our plan A be for a two - state solution , and we will work with our ally in the region , on the Security Council — as we do on Friday — and close to home in order to pursue those argument . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . thank you for grant the urgent question , Mr Speaker . this be clearly a difficult and dangerous moment for the middle east . a way must be find through the dreadful impasse that have lead to the breakdown of the ceasefire agreement . as have be say time and again , the key to a sustainable end to the conflict be the release of the remain 59 hostage so cruelly hold by Hamas terrorist since the atrocity of 7 October . their continued captivity be intolerable . the british Government should be able to bring their influence to bear , and the Foreign Secretary should be directly involve in all effort to find a way through , work with israeli counterpart , the US and key regional player and mediator country . we say that in the Chamber yesterday . the Minister state yesterday , as he have today , that the Government be " in regular contact with all those involve in negotiation . " — [ Official Report , 1 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 147 . ] that include the Foreign Secretary , who speak to his israeli counterpart last week . will the Minister inform the House what direct Minister - to - Minister discussion have take place about the current military operation ? be Ministers inform in advance , and have they be give any information about the objective that Israel be seek ? every week we come here to ask question of Ministers , and it be unclear exactly what level of influence the Government have . what be the Government ' s plan ? what be their vision of a way through ? what discussion have they have in recent day with vital interlocutor ? on humanitarian aid , do the Minister feel that he have make any progress in his effort to try to unblock the current aid access situation ? we have speak about this many time . will he update the House on what have be happen to british aid while the restriction remain ? where be that aid ? it be the Conservatives ' position when in government , as indeed it be now the position of the Labour Government , that there can be no role for Iranian - back Hamas terrorist in Gaza ' s future . will the Minister be propose to our critical partner a road map for how this will end and how that future will become a reality ? these be important question that the right hon . Lady have ask . the Foreign Secretary have be directly involve in Minister - to - Minister contact . I , too , have be talk with all those affect . I very much welcome her comment about the hostage . of course , the whole House want to see they all release , and I be sure that many of we will be think of Avinatan or — he have a british mother — who have be hold , almost certainly in terrible condition , ever since 7 October . I know that the whole House will continue to think of those hostage victim . the right hon . Lady rightly ask about humanitarian aid . I accept that our effort in recent day to try to prevent the blockade from continue in Gaza have not be effective . in the first part of this year , we see a very welcome increase in aid go into Gaza , include UK aid . even during that great flow , there be still unwelcome restriction on the nature of the aid go in , which make reconstruction , shelter , tent and sleeping bag hard to get into Gaza when they be desperately need . so there be improvement , and we can see a route by which we might see a significant increase in the amount of aid get into the Gaza strip , which be desperately need . but at the current time the report be extremely depressing ; we discuss some of they yesterday . the right hon . Lady ask about our plan for reconstruction and what discussion we be have with other . we have discuss the arab initiative with those involve closely . we think it be a plan with real merit . it must not allow Hamas to have a role in government — we be absolutely clear on that point , and I think arab partner be very much of the same view . that be the basic idea from which we must work . on 30 March , the first day of Eid , israeli attack on Gaza kill dozen of Palestinians , add to the death toll since Israel breach the ceasefire agreement . Israel be now in the process of enact the large forced displacement , order hundred of thousand of Palestinians from Rafah . how will this end ? Israel can not and will not stop . be the goal ethnic cleansing ? we be witness that . be the goal the complete destruction of Gaza ? we be now witness that . be the goal the permanent occupation of Gaza and the west bank ? we continue to witness that . be the goal a complete end to the two - state solution ? israeli Ministers have make their intention clear . will the Minister unequivocally condemn their action for what they be : war crime and crime against humanity ? my hon . friend have be fearless and persistent on those question . I do condemn the comment of israeli Ministers which amount to force displacement or the annexation of palestinian territory . we recognise international humanitarian law and call on all our ally , include Israel , also to abide by it . the scene in Gaza in recent day have be hard to watch , and we will continue to make those point to the Israelis with all the force that my hon . friend would expect . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Israel ' s expansion of military activity in Gaza , include a strike on UN medical facility , displacement of civilian and the Defence Minister ' s new proposal to seize large swathe of territory be gravely disturbing . it seem that international humanitarian law be be violate . this week ' s report that the Israel Defence Forces kill and bury 15 humanitarian worker in a mass grave be also appal . the ceasefire must be restore . Israel must immediately end its illegal blockade of humanitarian aid into Gaza to bring desperately need relief to 2 million people who have suffer enormously . Hamas must also release the remain hostage immediately and unconditionally . will the Minister update the House on the conversation he be have with israeli , american and middle eastern partner regard the restoration of the ceasefire ? all side must recommit to a political process . he say that there be only one route , so I ask he once again : will this Government now recognise a palestinian state , give hope to million of Palestinians ? will he also outline what the UK be do to hold those who attack aid worker in violation of international humanitarian law accountable and to protect those aid worker who remain in Gaza ? those be important question . let I start with humanitarian aid worker . the whole House will have hear the Prime Minister respond to my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) . we of course want to see accountability when humanitarian worker be strike . we particularly expect accountability when british national be affect . my thought be with the family of all those affect by the World Central Kitchen incident . what do we want to see next by way of accountability ? we want to see the israeli Military Advocate General go through the investigation at a proper speed — it have be a year — come to proper finding and answer the question of whether criminal charge should now be lay . this House have discuss question on the recognition of a palestinian state many time . we will recognise a palestinian state as part of a contribution to a two - state solution . we be all watch the event in the occupied Palestinian Territories at the moment and see how distant a functional palestinian state look under these circumstance . our first effort must be to restore the basic functioning of palestinian life , in both Gaza and the west bank , where it be also under threat . I recently visit the Occupied Palestinian Territories with the Foreign Affairs Committee . I travel to Area C in west bank and see at first hand the settler violence that palestinian man , woman and child be face day in , day out . they be live their life in constant fear . in this House we all support a two - state solution , but that be be undermine daily by the action of the israeli Government , especially in the west bank ; we be see it be annex in real time . the Minister say that we will recognise the state of Palestine when the time be right , but I fear there may be no state leave to recognise . will the Government look again at stop all settlement good come into the UK ? those be important question . the UK consider settlement illegal under international law . we be clear that settlement good must be properly label and they do not benefit from the trading regime that would otherwise apply to both Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . my hon . friend ' s question be the right one . we need to ensure that there remain a viable path to a two - state solution . there be no other path to peace in the region , and all our effort be focus on that outcome . when I be the Minister responsible , the current Minister be then an outstanding official in the Department . he will therefore know that when I present an egregious list of complaint to the Deputy Prime Minister of Israel , as well as to the chief negotiator , he simply storm out of the meeting , leave the ambassador with his head in his hand . I therefore ask : what leverage do we actually have ? the right hon . Gentleman be kind about my service . I know that he raise some of the issue with some force , as he say , during his time in this ministerial role . that underline the hard truth here , which be that the Israelis must be persuade to relent from a course of action that both the Conservative and labour party , as well as the other party in this Chamber , have see be totally undermine the long - term stability of the region , which be important not just for Israel and for Palestine , but for the UK and our friend and ally in the middle east . the poor people of Gaza be trap between Hamas , who refuse to release the 59 hostage , and Defence Minister Katz , who be now threaten the " total destruction " of Gaza . do the Minister share my despair at the lack of leadership commit to peace ? will he also talk about what diplomatic effort we be make , as well as through aid spending , to try to create moderate leadership in the region that can establish the long - term circumstance for peace and reconciliation ? my hon . friend have do much work over the year on question of peacebuilde . we , too , be commit to play our part in try to build up the connection between the two society that could allow for the kind of moderate leadership at the most local level that be so necessary for make peace — we see that in our own experience of Northern Ireland . many in this Chamber have rightly press we on the proposal from the Alliance for Middle East Peace , and we look forward in the come period to set out what we will do to support peacebuilde effort . I watch with dismay , as do the Foreign Secretary , the many civilian ask for peace on both side ; the many civilian protest both in Israel and in the Occupied Palestinian Territories for a return to a ceasefire . that be what we want to see . we have hear Ministers refer many time to the risk of breach of international humanitarian law . on the one occasion , on 17 March , when the Foreign Secretary admit that withholding aid to Gaza be " a breach of international law " — [ Official Report , 17 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 41 . ] , he have to retract the admission and refer again to a risk of breach . if the recent attack on aid worker constitute a further risk of breach , will the Minister outline what would constitute an actual breach ? the Foreign Secretary have clarify his comment on the occasion to which the hon . Gentleman refer , and he will know well from his own background that a long - stand policy of government of all kind be that it be not for Ministers to act as court . there be competent international court that make such determination . the resumption of the conflict in Gaza be incredibly tragic , and it be especially heartbreaking for the hostage family and all those brave people we have see protest in Israel against their government and in Gaza against the death cult that be Hamas . do the Minister agree that the conflict today could end if Hamas release the 59 hostage and leave Gazans to live in peace and security ? will he update we on plan for the international plan for peace for Israelis and Palestinians ? my hon . friend be right : the hostage must be release , and Hamas can play no role in the future of governance of Gaza . their role , which be correctly describe by the shadow Foreign Secretary as be support by Iran , have be malign . it have be malign for the Palestinians , for the Israelis , for the UK and for the region . on my hon . friend ' s question about the proposal for the international peace building fund , we will come back to the House with further detail of our approach . as the situation continue to evolve , we want to carefully consider how good we can contribute to peace building , in the way that I describe in answer to a previous question . I thank the Minister for raise , in his answer to the shadow Foreign Secretary , the plight of Avinatan or , who I be proud to be twin with . he be brutally capture by Hamas terrorist 544 day ago . in March , his family receive a sign of life for the first time , and in that same month a number of colleague hear in Parliament from his mother — Ditza , a british citizen — her move story in Parliament about her continued fight for her son ' s release . do the Minister agree that Hamas could end the war now by release Avinatan and all the remain hostage , and will he assure Ditza that all avenue be be pursue by this Government to make that a reality ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for mention Ditza . I too meet she , and Avinatan ' s sister , recently . those two incredibly strong woman be do absolutely everything that they can for their love one , and I can assure they from this Dispatch Box that we be do everything we can to secure his release . I associate myself with the Minister ' s remark about the killing of the British World Central Kitchen worker by Israel in Gaza , and I extend this sentiment to palestinian aid worker too . it be almost a year since I be last in Gaza , and not a day go by when I do not think about what I see . do the Minister agree that what Israel be do in Gaza be reach new and uncharted territory , in its level of danger both to Palestinians and to the prospect of a two - state solution ever be realise ? do he far agree that it be past time for fresh , co - ordinate international action to stop this ? when will he be able to come to the House to outline what this action will be ? my hon . friend have see event in Gaza with her own eye , and I know from all her work before she come to this place how commit an advocate and an actor she have be for those suffer some of the most unimaginable pressure and horror . I agree that they continue to suffer those pressure and see those horror . we take the step of call the UN Security Council to session on these question on Friday solemnly and soberly . we will work with our international partner on these question because they be an egregious threat to the life of Palestinians , to a two - state solution and to the stability of the region . I will come back to the House to give she further update , as my hon . friend would expect . we need a ceasefire now — again — because the situation on the ground be as bad as it have ever be , if not bad . I speak to my friend whose family be in Gaza and he tell I that last week their home be bomb multiple time while they be shelter in the basement with no food or water . they be now barely survive , surround by destruction , terrify and without aid for over a month . he say : " this be not self - defence . this be the destruction of family like mine . " if this government do not support this escalation , where be the consequence ? we do have leverage . why have they not suspend all arm sale to the IDF — not because of a risk of it hit civilian , but because we have principle and will show intent ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for share that story in the Chamber . I know that many member of this House have receive similar story over the last few day , and indeed have be do so for the 18 month that this conflict have be run . I have set out our position on arm a number of time in this House , and I would like to say that the decision take in September be decision of principle and they remain decision of principle . the two principle that underline our position in relation to arm licence for sale to Israel be that we be concerned about risk of international humanitarian law and that we will continue to defend Israel against threat to its security and safety , include from Iran . we have suspend weapon that could be sell to Israel , and we have fly the RAF in its defence when Iran threaten to strike it with missile . the world be incredibly complicated , thing be move very quickly , and I recognise the strength of feeling in this House on the question of arm . our position remain the same , and it be one of principle . what we be witness in Gaza be the weaponisation of starvation . with the ongoing blockade of food , water , medicine and shelter now in its second month , there be also the heart - wrench , despicable discovery of the killing of a further 15 aid worker find in a mass grave , and large - scale hostility have now restart . this must stop . give that it be clear that the Netanyahu regime be not listen to the UK Government and will only listen to President Trump , what pressure be our government put on the US to ensure that the israeli Government finally end their aid blockade ? as you would expect , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will confine my comment to the discussion that we have , rather than the policy of other ally . but my hon . friend , who have raise these issue many time , be right . I have say it at this Dispatch Box , the Prime Minister say it at Prime Minister ' s question early and the Foreign Secretary reiterate it yesterday : we want the aid blockade to end immediately . it should not have be put in place . palestinian civilian be suffer , and we expect urgent action . we of course discuss these issue with Secretary Rubio , with Special Envoy Steve Witkoff and with a whole range of our counterpart in the US system . we work closely with our american colleague on the middle east and in a whole range of national security field , and we be clear about our policy with they , as we be with the israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority . can I ask the Minister to bring a sense of urgency to this ? the people of Gaza be starve . every bakery be close . there be insufficient water . there be no power . no school be open . no hospital be fully function . it be an utterly desperate situation , yet I believe we be still allow RAF Akrotiri to be use as a staging point for Israel and still supply part for F - 35 jet , which be bomb the people of Gaza and bomb the rubble there . what be the Government do to ensure that Israel stop the bombing and that food aid get through very , very urgently for the people of Gaza , merely to help they survive ? I hope the House be under no doubt about the urgency with which myself , the Foreign Secretary and the whole ministerial team treat these issue . I think I have already answer the question in relation to arm in this session . the humanitarian need have be on terrible and vivid display over the last few day . we be aware of the report to which the right hon . Gentleman refer , and we raise these issue with the urgency they demand . the Hostages and Missing Families Forum in Israel say this morning that it be horrified to wake up to the news of the expand military operation , and that be because it know the risk that this pose to its love one . but it be the love one of Palestinians who have already suffer so much that be most relevant today . they themselves know that the annexation and the forced displacement of man , woman and child be simply unacceptable , so can the Minister tell I exactly what he and this UK Government have do to make representation to Israel , both about that israeli aggression and about the 13 new expand settlement in the west bank , which be deliberately design to suffocate any future state of Palestine ? I can assure my hon . friend , who have be a doughty campaigner on these issue , that we have raise both the risk of return to war and indeed the settlement he refer to directly with the israeli Government , and we will continue to do so . I welcome the Minister ' s reply to the urgent question , but I be sure he will forgive I when I say that we have hear all this before . there be a sense of hopelessness in this place at the downward spiral we seem to be on , but it must be nothing compare with the hopelessness be feel by the Gazans and also the israeli population . the israeli regime be not listen to we or to its own population , who be protest and simply want the hostage home . the region need some hope , and it have already be suggest that if we be to go down the route to a two - state solution , we need a breakthrough . that breakthrough might come if this government recognise Palestine as a state . I recognise the hon . Lady ' s remark . the sense of hopelessness must be acute in Gaza , and I say to all those watch in the region that the UK will continue to do everything it can , no matter how hard it be , to try to return to a ceasefire . I have address the question about the recognition of a palestinian state . there must be a breakthrough . we need to get back on the path that both side be on before if stability be to return to the region . rise — order . many right hon . and hon . member still want to get in , and there be an important statement to come , so could question be a little briefer , please ? I thank the Minister for come to the House and the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) for raise the matter . I concur with the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) in that we have be here before . we keep get the same response . our constituent continue to write to we about this — they want hope . the reality be that over a thousand Palestinians have be kill within the last fortnight . today mark a month since Israel break that ceasefire , block critical aid into Gaza in defiance of international law . I ask the Minister — I know he and the Foreign Secretary be work hard — what more it will take before we as a UK Government take a different course of action , because Israel be not listen to warm word any long . my constituent in Lincoln have strong view about the horror they see , and I know many constituent right across the country be write to their member and strongly express their view . I would not describe our policy as " warm word " and I think many of our friend in the region would not describe it as such either . we have take concrete action since become the Government . we have restore aid to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . we have take the arm suspension measure that have be discuss . we have sanction settler . we have continue to use our position at the UN Security Council to try to bring attention and action to some of the most egregious area of concern , and we will continue to do so . I can not promise this House that I will be able to return next time with something different to say . the fact that my remark may seem repetitive indicate that the problem be difficult and the solution feel distant , but we must continue to work on the path that this whole House know we must get back to , which be towards a two - state solution . last week , the Foreign Secretary be unequivocal in say that both side — Hamas and Israel — be guilty of commit atrocity . do the Minister agree with the Foreign Secretary that that be the case ? I think the hon . Gentleman be try to return to the question ask by the Liberal Democrat Member . to be clear , on the determination of crime , we leave that to court . on the determination of risk , we take action . as affirm by the International Court of Justice in its advisory opinion , Israel be violate the peremptory norm of the palestinian people ' s right to self - determination , the prohibition against racial discrimination and apartheid , and the prohibition against unlawful use of force . its occupation of Palestine be illegal and must end as soon as possible . will the Minister acknowledge that the UK have a duty to suspend all military co - operation and trade with Israel — a duty that stem from a wide range of intersect international obligation — in the face of grave illegality commit by the state of Israel ? my hon . friend ask I about the advisory opinion of the ICJ . we accept that the israeli settlement in the occupied palestinian territory be illegal and have be clear about that policy position . I be afraid that we will take some time yet to return to this House with a full response to the ICJ ' s advisory opinion , which have a number of novel element of international jurisprudence , and we be consider it with the seriousness and soberness that it require . we agree on the fundamental : the settlement be illegal and must be bring to an end . recent polling suggest that over 60 % of Israelis will support any deal that bring the remain hostage home . if that can be achieve , the likelihood be that peace and rebuilding can be achieve , especially if Egypt can be involve , along with finance from Saudi Arabia and the Gulf . will the government please push for that ? I can confirm that we want to see all the hostage return and a reconstruction plan for Gaza base on the arab initiative , with the full involvement of the region — a reconstruction plan that can allow Palestinians to remain in their home . I be devastate to hear of the expansion of military operation in Gaza this week , alongside the aid blockade in the region . that be a clear breach of international humanitarian law . the Minister have say that he urge Israel to respect IHL . if Israel continue to ignore the international community on that , what concrete step will we take to hold it accountable ? my hon . friend have serve both in our military and as an aid worker . he know well and feel strongly , as do many in this House , the agony of what we be see . we have determine that there be a serious risk of breach of international humanitarian law by the israeli Government . we will continue to press they on those point . I will not issue further comment on sanction , which I think be underlie some of his question , as to do so could reduce their impact . while no one want to see the continuation of war in Gaza , under the term of the ceasefire agreement Israel have the right to take action where there be an immediate threat . we have see that Hamas have refuse to release hostage and be now fire rocket into Israel . they be plan further attack and , indeed , attack and murder their own citizen who protest against they . be it not reasonable in those circumstance for Israel to take action to defend its own country ? should it not be the priority of this government to ensure that Hamas release the hostage whom they be cruelly and cynically hold , and to ensure that UK aid be not use to prop up Hamas and help they to reassert their authority ? I agree with the right hon . gentleman : of course Israel have the right to legitimate self - defence consistent with international humanitarian law . concern about the risk of a breach of international humanitarian law underpin our concern . he be absolutely right that Hamas be a threat not just to Israel but to their own people , and I have be absolutely clear on that question on numerous occasion at this Dispatch Box . where there be any report that Hamas be benefit from aid go into the Gaza strip or anywhere else , we take serious action in response . if the rule of international law be to mean anything , we must uphold it , so just as we recognise that take hostage be a breach of international law , we must recognise that kill aid worker be a breach of international law . my constituent will be listen to the Minister , recognise the work be do but completely perplex as to why we be not do more to uphold international law in practice . he be right to argue that the court need to be involve . he say that he want this issue to be deal with by the relevant competent court and talk about novel element of jurisprudence delay our ability to do that . can he explain to my constituent what more it would take for the United Kingdom , through the auspex of the UN Security Council , to make a referral to the International Criminal Court give what we be see and to uphold international human right law directly ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . I recognise that , for constituent in Walthamstow and elsewhere , question of international law may seem very arcane when we be face with the kind of image that we be all see this morning and have be see for month , so let I clarify . she refer to the ICJ advisory opinion . that advisory opinion , long in gestation , refer to the presence of Israel in the occupied Palestinian Territories . it pre - date the 7 October attack . she also refer to the ICC , which have hear referral in relation to conduct on both side of the conflict since the 7 October attack . we respond in the fullness of time , as require by the ICJ , which have take some time in its complex determination about the status of the Occupied Palestinian Territories . we have respond on the ICC to the timeline require — we do so late last year . we can all see the discomfort of the Minister in have to embroider language , refer merely to the risk of the breach of international law and not speak as plainly on behalf of our country as many member would wish he to speak . of course , we all want the hostage to be free , just as we want the 2 million hostage in Gaza be hold hostage by the murderous IDF , which be treat they with disdain and starve they , to be free . if the Minister be not prepared to make the statement that many of we wish for he to make , will he at least admit that the action of the far - right israeli Government can no long be describe as self - defence ? I have be accuse of many thing , but not of embroider , so if there be any doubt , let I be clear : the position to which I stick at the Dispatch Box on the determination of law be one that have be hold consistently by both party in government for a long time . there be a good reason why we would not want people to stand at the Dispatch Box make determination of law , and it be why we have court and an international legal order that this country have a proud history of establish and maintain . we have determine that there be a risk of those breach . we be not make a determination ; we be look to our own law — pass , in fact , by those now on the Opposition Benches — and follow they through thoroughly and vigorously . in the discharge of our duty , we have say that we think there be a serious risk of breach of international humanitarian law . that be the same as say that we think there be a serious risk that Israel be not simply act in its own legitimate self - defence . that be why we have take the step that we have . last year , I raise the concern of a constituent whose family member be stick in Gaza without food and water . the situation have worsen since the aid blockade . I be particularly worried about the escalation of hostility impact most on woman and girl . supply of female hygiene product be at critical low , woman be give birth on hospital floor , and doctor be perform c - section without adequate medical supply . may I ask the Minister , on behalf of the hundred of constituent who have write to I , what the UK Government be do to end the aid blockade ? will he reassure I that the Government have communicate the sheer urgency on the ground to the israeli Government ? I be grateful for the opportunity to comment on particular case involve constituent in Gaza . my hon . friend work incredibly hard for her constituent , as do many other member . where I be in direct correspondence with member about the fate of constituent and their relative in Gaza , I will not provide a running commentary from the Dispatch Box , but the Foreign Office will do everything it can to ensure that british national in distress , and their loved one , include in Gaza , be able to get to safety . I can confirm to she that we have raise the urgency of these matter with the israeli Government . another day , another statement , another day of predictable and depressing answer . nothing be more predictable and depressing than the statement , " we be do everything we can . " be we really do everything we can when we do not call out genocide and ethnic cleansing as we see it happen in real time ? be we do everything we can when we have not impose bilateral economic sanction ? be we do everything we can when we have not even call in the ambassador to express our concern ? if we be indeed do everything we can , why have the Government just sell £ 9 million - worth of technology for israeli submarine that be be build to house nuclear weapon ? we be do everything we can . I recognise from the commentary of many member how unbearably frustrating they and their constituent find this situation . I have be call for a ceasefire ever since I have be a Minister . it be also deeply depressing for I to be in this situation today , as I have be so many time in the House . we will continue to do everything , in accordance with the measure I have lay out this afternoon , to bring the conflict back to a ceasefire . the Minister have be generous with his time , not just today but over the past few month , both in the House and in private meeting , but every time we meet , the situation be bad and get bad . as the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) say , it be now as bad as it have ever be . do the Minister agree that unless we in the international community take firm immediate action to force change as a matter of urgency , nothing will be different and there will be no point talk about peace or a two - state solution , because those opportunity will be lose not just for now but for the foreseeable future , and the consequence for those in the region , particularly the people of Gaza , will be unimaginable ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word . in the time that we have be in government , we have see the situation deteriorate , but we have also see it improve . I hope to be able to return to the House with the news that we be back at a ceasefire . I recognise how distant that feel at this moment , but a ceasefire would be not just a vital step towards a two - state solution and an enormous contribution towards get aid into Gaza , but the step change require for international diplomacy to bring stability to the region . some 400 aid worker have be kill in Gaza over the past 500 day , and we be now a year and a day on from the awful attack on the World Central Kitchen . how many british aid worker be in Gaza , and what tangible action will the Government ask Israel to take to guarantee their safety ? I do not believe that I be in a position to confirm the current number of british national in Gaza as aid worker , but if I be , I will write to the hon . member . those at the Hostage and Missing Families Forum , which represent most of the captive ' family , say that they be horrified to wake up this morning to the israeli Defence Minister ' s announcement about expand military operation in Gaza . they also say that the israeli Government have an obligation to free all 59 hostage from Hamas captivity , and to pursue every possible channel to advance a deal for their release . hostage have be release only when there have be a ceasefire , so a ceasefire be paramount for the release of hostage . if we believe that Israel should stop bomb Gaza , we need to stop supply it with part for bomb . if we believe in a two - state solution , it be about time that we recognise Palestine . I have already comment on the question of recognition . I assure my hon . friend that we be not provide part for bomb . we have set out the provision on arm suspension . there be a question about the global supply chain for F - 35 part where those part be go indirectly to Israel , on which I have elaborate in the House on a number of occasion . that remain our position . nearly 24 , 000 woman and child have be kill in Gaza since 7 October 2023 . in the light of evidence submit to the UN Human Rights Council show Israel ' s use of starvation as a method of war , the denial of human right and humanitarian assistance , and a concerted policy of destroy Gaza ' s healthcare system , will the Government take immediate and tangible step to demonstrate the UK ' s commitment to uphold international law by cease provision of military support to Israel , suspend all export licence and impose a two - way arm embargo ? I set out our position on arm suspension early in this urgent question . let I try to approach this in another way . it be obvious that Israel have be embolden by the explicit and implicit support of the US Government for what it be do — that have be a fundamental change . the US Government have rule out a two - state solution , as I understand . what have the Minister be do , or what can he do , to work with our colleague in the European Union , and with the arab state , to develop a clear plan for a two - state solution , and a clear timeframe for all country recognise a palestinian state ? as you would expect , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will not seek to characterise the foreign policy of other ; they can set out their policy themselves . on co - operation and co - ordination , we have be in extensive dialogue with those involve in the arab initiative , and we have work with Germany , France and Italy , and make joint statement on this and wide issue recently . I expect that in June we will join an important international conference about a two - state solution , where we will discuss that with our partner . time and again we have hear Ministers at the Dispatch Box say that they be do everything they can , and talk about the diplomatic lever that they be try to pull . we all know that since the ceasefire be break because of the Israelis not comply , 1 , 100 people have be kill , mainly woman and child , and 15 aid worker assassinate — we know they be assassinate because some of they have their hand tie behind their back . the Minister know that there be only three action we can take : stop trade ; sanction ; and recognise Palestine . those be the only action that this Government can take to prevent Israelis cause more damage . which one will he take ? as the hon . Gentleman know , I be a diplomat before , and ultimately it be diplomacy that will resolve this conflict . that be the lever to which we must most vigorously apply ourselves . just suppose that we close our airbase in Cyprus . just suppose that we apply great sanction , and withdraw export licence . just suppose that we recognise the state of Palestine . would the Minister be make the same statement ? what analysis have he make of that ? it be hard enough to respond to the fact as they be . I will not be draw by my hon . friend into such a complex chain of hypothetical . I thank the Minister very much for his answer , and for his understanding and honesty . Hamas be terrorist , murderer , rapist , and child killer . they hide their AK47s and their weaponry in child ' s bed . they hide their missile in their school , hospital and house . what step have the Minister and the Government take with the UN to bring all the kidnap hostage home alive , rather than in the coffin that be parade around by Hamas terrorist — murderer — at the last hostage handover ? what step be they take to underline the point that the Israelis would not be intensify their plan to strike be the murderous Hamas not content to hold hostage and fire rocket into Israel daily ? we have work with our partner in the region , the israeli Government , the US , and many other to try to secure the safe release of all those with UK link who have be hold hostage . of course we want to see all hostage release , but it be on british national and those with link to the UK that we have turn the focus of our effort . this have be heartbreaking for I , and for so many in this House . it have be so joyful to see british national escape from the clutch of Hamas alive , and a heartbreak when british - link national have return deceased . I know that the whole House will be hope for Avinatan or , and all other who be be hold , to be return alive and well soon . the killing of innocent palestinian civilian , many of they woman and child , by israeli force be simply heartbreaking . the Minister know that I have be raise my concern , and those of my constituent , with he since I be elect to this House last July . I be grateful for and appreciate the step that he and the Government be take on aid and arm , yet here we be . what more can the Government do to stop the killing of innocent palestinian civilian , ensure the release of all remain hostage , and ensure that aid get to those who so desperately need it in Gaza ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and his persistence on these issue . so many colleague on the Labour and Opposition Benches have raise the plight of palestinian civilian and of hostage with real force and urgency , ever since we come into government , and I be sure they will continue to . we will continue to take the step I have outline to try to effect a change , and we recognise the great urgency for we all as military activity intensifie . I hope to return to this House in due course with update on our diplomatic effort . under the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide , to which the UK be a signatory , state have an obligation to prevent and punish genocide . that obligation to prevent involve act immediately , so will the Minister outline what the Government be do , and say what step they be take to ensure that genocide be prevent in Gaza ? the hon . Member will have hear my previous comment about determination . I will answer the question that I think he be ask , which be about what we have do since we come into government to try to reduce the suffering in the occupy Palestinian Territories , and indeed in Israel . we have take firm and far - reach step — on the suspension of arm , on the restoration of funding to UNRWA , by use our role on the Security Council , and by raise these question forcefully with the israeli Government and all relevant regional partner . we be work night and day to try to ensure that those in harm ' s way be no long at risk . I recognise today , as we have do almost every day since we come to government , that there be yet more to do . since Hamas ' s war crime of 7 October , we have see multiple flagrant breach of the rule of the international order . this week , 15 palestinian paramedic Red Crescent worker be find in a mass grave alongside their abandon emergency vehicle . that come on top of a four - week total aid blockade . what be our red line about how this war without end , in which ceasefire and sign agreement can be toss aside , be be conduct ? our position on the conduct of war be that take by international humanitarian law . we have set out the risk and our concern about breach , and we continue to take action that be in line with our assessment . More than 300 palestinian child have be kill since Israel ' s new offensive begin . what worry I about the Government be that they do not seem to have any red line that Israel must not cross . we need robust action , not word . the two - state solution , which be on its knee , be not a by - product of peace ; it be the route to peace . if the time for recognition be not now , then when be it ? what will the Government ' s response be when Israel permanently occupy part of Gaza , as its Defence Minister seem to be insinuate it will ? my hon . friend have a long commitment to these issue , and I know that she have travel to the region . she be right to say that the two - state solution must be central to this . she ask about annexation ; I can be clear once again from the Dispatch Box that we want a resolution that provide for the Occupied Palestinian Territories to be palestinian , as be consistent with relevant Security Council resolution . I commend the Minister for the care and concern with which he update this House , but we keep come back to the same point and situation . this morning ' s announcement by the israeli Government about more incursion be condemnable . we all know where this lead . over the past year and a half , we have see mass displacement . it lead to suffering , and to hostage not be release , and it take we close to the abyss . will the Minister join I in make it clear that any forceful transfer of palestinian civilian , and any annexation of palestinian territory , be unacceptable and would be a breach of international law ? my hon . friend remain deeply committed to these issue , and I be pleased to reassure he that we do not support the expansion of military operation by Israel announce this morning . we continue to oppose force displacement of the Palestinians . palestinian territory must not be reduce in the conduct of this war . in the past few day , the bad extremist , Ben - Gvir , have rejoin the israeli Government ; Red Crescent medic have be kill by israeli force ; and Israel have start a fresh ground invasion , kill hundred of woman and child , with the specific intention of annex palestinian territory . after every atrocity and illegal act , the Foreign Office express its concern , and then thing get bad . have the Minister consider what step the Government should take to make thing well on the ground for Palestinians and Israelis ? of course . that be the thought in our mind every day as we see the imagery , and be send it by our colleague and our constituent . every day , this Government see with our own eye the horror in Gaza , and every day we ask ourselves what we can do to try to ensure that this go in the direction of our policy , and not in the direction that it have do — the direction of the end of the ceasefire . that lead to far too many hostage continue to be detain , and aid restriction have continue long after I and other have call for they to end . as my hon . friend would expect , every day these question haunt we . we be back here again — aid worker shoot dead and dump in a shallow grave ; hunger use as a weapon of war ; hospital bomb . now there be new plan to seize large area of Gaza . all that have come in the past few day . Israel be carry out war crime after war crime . on 29 December , the Foreign Office issue a press release rightly refer to russian war crime , so I do not see why there be reticence here . I be afraid that expression of concern be not enough . when will the Government act , treat Israel as they have rightly treat Russia , and impose serious sanction ? I have set out the step we have take and the sanction we have issue , and I will continue to return to this House with further update . I recognise what the Minister have say about what have be do , but give the desperate situation , what more could be do through diplomatic effort to ensure that Israel allow in humanitarian aid at speed and at scale , and to support the arab initiative , so that Gaza be rebuild as part of a recognise , viable palestinian state ? we will continue to work with our partner who be party to the arab initiative , and indeed our partner in the United Nations Security Council , where we have call session and issue statement . we will continue to work along those line in the way that my hon . friend would expect . I have a simple question , and be look for a very simple answer . do the Government recognise Israel ' s plan for large - scale force evacuation in Gaza as ethnic cleansing ? if not , why not ? we continue to oppose force displacement in Gaza . I put on record my sincere desire to see the israeli hostage return as soon as possible . the International Development Committee recently spend time in Geneva as part of its inquiry on international humanitarian law . we discuss at length the way that country increasingly conflate the legality of resort to war with the legality of conduct in war . we see aid be block and land be annex without , it seem , legitimate justification , or even significant condemnation . will the Minister please explain what the Government be do to ensure that international humanitarian law stop be openly break , and be give the respect it deserve ? my hon . friend and east midland colleague be right to raise the issue of the deterioration of the application of international humanitarian law . there be too many place in conflict where there be a very serious risk of breach of IHL in the conduct of hostility . we be do all we can in Geneva and New York , and on the ground in place include Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories , to ensure that the risk of breach of IHL do not continue . I thank the Minister for come to the House to respond to question . school - base Nursery Capital Grants with permission , I will make a statement to update the House on the roll - out of nursery in our primary school . this Labour Government be bring the change that family deserve . we make promise to the parent and child of this country and , not nine month in , we be act to deliver on they . free breakfast club be already be roll out , the curriculum and assessment review be in full swing , and child ' s social care be see the big overhaul in a generation . we have fund for 10 , 000 new place for pupil with special educational need and disability , back for up to 10 , 000 more apprentice to qualify , new improvement team for our school and a new allowance for our kinship carer — promise make , promise keep . here , today , we go far . this £ 37 million in funding for 300 primary school to open and expand nursery be a big step towards deliver 3 , 000 nursery for school , a big step towards deliver childcare for parent and a big step towards deliver the good start in life for all our child . I want that good start in life for every child , because I want opportunity for every child . I want every child in every village , town and city across our country to grow up know that success belong to they . that be the kind of country I want to live in — the country that this Labour Government want to build , with opportunity not just for some , but for all our child . to achieve that , we need to start early , before university or college , and even before school — in the early year of our child ' s life . those year be fundamental to opportunity . that be where gap in learning and development first appear , and the long we wait , the wide they grow and the hard they be to close . that be why , when I be in school , college and university — even in those place — they agree that the big chance to make an impact on our child ' s life sit in those crucial early year . that be why this be my no . 1 priority . if we get this right , and we set all child on the track to success , that be where they will stay . that be why , despite the huge fiscal challenge that we inherit from the Conservatives , we choose to invest more than £ 8 billion in the early year at the last Budget . it be why the early year be a central part of the Prime Minister ' s plan for change , set the target of a record share of child start school ready to learn . that be why I be today announce the 300 school that will be deliver our first wave of new and expand school - base nursery . many of these school - base nursery will serve community face big challenge , where there be strong evidence of need . overall , it mean up to 6 , 000 more nursery place for young child where they will have the big impact , with most of they start in September this year . that be vital , because that be when the final stage of the 30 hour a week childcare entitlement will kick in . when that be join up with the offer for three and four - year - old , work parent of child from nine month right up to the beginning of school will get 30 government - fund hour of childcare a week . the 300 school be just the start . it be 300 on the road to 3 , 000 school - base nursery . we will work with school , voluntary and private provider , teacher and local partner to find and spread what work . by the end , it will mean that ten of thousand more parent have the power to choose the hour they want to work . what a contrast with the Conservatives , because what we inherit be not just an offer that they have not bother to fund , but a pledge without a plan , with place , promise and provision missing . parent make decision on the back of those promise . again and again , I hear from parent how much they have be rely on the promise that the previous Government scatter about like confetti . across our country , this Government be deliver change in month , when the last Government wait 13 year before sign a post - date cheque . the change that we be make will give parent more control over their life , time to choose their work hour and money back in their pocket . the last Coram report show that the effect be start to flow through . Childcare cost for under - three in England have halve since the expansion , but ultimately childcare and early year education be about child . it be about launch a lifetime of learn and start as we mean to go on , so as we roll out these school - base nursery , we be also add the big ever uplift to the early year pupil premium , close the attainment gap and give every child the support that they need to learn and grow , and we be support early year educator to build their expertise . it be not just what be teach in those nursery that count , but where they be locate : they be in primary school , which be no accident . we be centre school in their community , start early , work with the voluntary sector and private provider too , so that the move from nursery to school be a natural step , from one room to another , sometimes even in the same building , as be the case at St Anne ' s church academy in Weston - super - Mare . have a nursery on site mean that strong , long last relationship with family can be build . parent feel that they be part of the community , so they engage more when their child start nursery and then move into school . when their child start reception , there be no big , scary change , build the sense that school be where they be mean to be . I see that powerfully this week when I go to Peterborough to visit Fulbridge academy . Little Oak nursery sit at the heart of the school . while I be there , I speak to Hannah , a work mum whose little boy , Nile , go to the nursery . she tell I all about the difference that Little Oak be make to her family , and about how her son be make friend and take big stride in his learning , ready to join his two old sibling at school in September . the nursery play a big part in make Fulbridge academy the centre of that community . it be the same for free breakfast club , which be why we announce the 750 early adopter this year . school be the beat heart of their community , where child come together to eat , learn and grow . it be good for attendance and achievement , for behaviour and belong , and for child and their life chance . that be the point : this be action for they , to give they the start that they deserve , because that be my no . 1 priority , build on a deep and fierce commitment to the child of this country in the first year of their life , take their first step into the world . in our young child ' s face and in the face of all who work with they , we see something that for so long have be miss from our country : hope . we see the hope of a bright and well future , the hope of a secure and prosperous world , the hope that tomorrow can be well than today and the hope that this be a Government that be on their side . that be the future that we shape together , not face alone . that be the hope that so many people in our country have — that our good day lie ahead of we . that be what the people of this country choose in the general election last July , when they choose hope over fear , and choose a bright tomorrow , not a bitter yesterday . and that be why I be so focused on get on and deliver change , because it matter so much for life now , not in some distant future . early year be where future be make , where life chance be win and where healthy society be build . that be the prize on offer . our young generation be the first generation for whom opportunity be open to all , right from the start , and I know that member from across the House will agree that that be a prize worth fight for . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . we welcome the Education Secretary ' s announcement , but let we be absolutely clear : the policy that she be talk about represent investment of £ 37 million , but the Government be take away half a billion pound from nursery by fail to compensate they for the national insurance increase . that will have a catastrophic effect on nursery up and down the country , which will be force either to close or to put their price up . " Catastrophic " be not my word , but that of the Early Years Alliance , follow Labour ' s national insurance bombshell on the childcare sector . in her statement , the Education Secretary say that she inherit a " pledge without a plan " — what a load of nonsense ! it be our plan that be deliver the expansion of funded childcare this autumn , and our plan that she today confirm have already halve cost for under - three , accord to independent research . that be our plan , Madam Deputy Speaker , but it be her plan that be shut nursery up and down the country , and that will put up cost for parent . just last week , I host a roundtable with some of the unsung hero of the sector — nursery owner . many be in tear , struggle with very real decision about whether they can keep their door open . one of the owner share with I that she be stop her own salary so that she can continue to pay her staff the amount they deserve . another owner be have sleepless night worry about how she would provide proper care for the child now that she can no long afford the staffing cost , thank to this Government ' s decision . it be clearly absurd for the Government to ask the sector to absorb the increase in national insurance while keep fee the same . the consequence of that be entirely predictable : nursery will have to either close or put up their price . a recent survey by the Early Years Alliance say that , sadly , around 400 nursery that it speak to may have to close because of this Government ' s job tax . that be what the Education Secretary ' s no . 1 priority look like . parent will lose out too . accord to the National Day Nurseries Association , increase to national insurance contribution will force nursery to raise their fee by 10 % . those be the obvious consequence of this Government ' s decision . will the Education Secretary finally admit today how much the job tax be cost the childcare sector ? will she monitor the impact of closure that happen thank to her job tax on childcare availability ? on the specific in her announcement today , will she confirm the location of the school - base nursery and how they be choose ? be they choose on the basis of surplus primary place or be they in area where we need more childcare provision ? if it be the latter , how be they identify ? those nursery will be base in school , so be it her intention that they will mimic the school timetable , or will there be year - round provision and will their hour be long than the school day ? will school - base nursery be compensate for the impact of the job tax ? if so , what will she do to address the inequity that that will cause with other provider ? as the Early Years Alliance have say today " if the government be truly serious about break down barrier to opportunity , it must come to the realisation that increase school - base provision can only ever be one piece of the puzzle . fail to recognise this will simply mean that more family lose out . " it be right : under this Government , more family will lose out . while I welcome the Education Secretary ' s announcement , the reality be that Labour ' s decision be make childcare more expensive and hard to find — [ interruption . ] hard - work family will bear the brunt of this Government ' s failure . it be time for the Education Secretary to stop make broken promise and actually make early year she no . 1 priority . it must be profoundly drain for the right hon . Lady to come to the Chamber when face with such good news and to bring such studied , force negativity every single time . six week ago , I be in the House deliver the news that we be support hundred of school across our country to open free breakfast club , and we get much of the same study , forced negativity then . today , not nine month into this Government , we be begin the roll - out of school - base nursery , as we have promise to the people of this country — [ interruption . ] I speak about visit , and the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) should go and visit the school - base nursery that will shortly be open in his constituency . I never hear from Conservative Members that they will be visit those nursery or breakfast club , so maybe they could take time out of their busy schedule to go and do precisely that . the only priority that they have be to bring back tax break for private school , take away resource from our state school . that be the one idea that they have . their idea of fresh thinking be to spend money they do not raise on plan they do not make . on the question ask by the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , we be invest £ 8 billion in expand early year entitlement , alongside double the early year pupil premium , a £ 75 million expansion grant and compensation for school - base nursery . the contrast between this Government and the Conservatives be like night and day . I be proud that at the Department for Education , under a Labour Government , it be week in , week out the Department for hope — the hope of a bright and well future for our child and our country . we have free breakfast club , a cutting - edge curriculum for all our child , the big overhaul of child ' s social care for a generation , fund for up to 10 , 000 new school place for child with special educational need and disability , back for up to 10 , 000 more apprentice to qualify , new improvement team in our school , a new allowance for kinship carer and new support for expand foster care . that be the difference between this Labour Government and the Conservatives . we be the party of hope . if the Conservatives ' recent leadership contest be anything to go by , they can not decide if they be the party of fear or the party of despair . early year be another strand of education that be decimate by the last Government . although those on the conservative Benches have not value this sector , as a former teacher , a mum and now an MP , I know its value for child and family in our community . although in Portsmouth we do not have one of the 300 nursery announce in today ' s first wave , I commend the Government on this initiative . I take this opportunity to commend and praise all those who work in the sector , provide opportunity for the young people in my city . I thank they for their fantastic work . I also take this opportunity to ask the Secretary of State to update the House on delivery of the plan September 2025 childcare expansion , and to explain how she expect parent to benefit from the 30 - hour roll - out across the fabulous nursery in my city . I be grateful to my hon . friend , who bring real expertise to this place , through her background and wealth of experience in education . through the expansion that we be roll out this year , parent will see considerable saving , but crucially it will ensure that all our child get the good possible start in life . while I recognise her disappointment that her own constituency do not benefit this time around , I note that Portsmouth South secure a school - base nursery this time around . of course , this be only phase 1 of what will be a wide roll - out as time progress . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . access to flexible , high - quality early year provision give child the start they deserve and parent the choice they need to live their life , and it be one of the good possible investment we can make in the future of our country . for those family live in childcare desert leave by the previous Conservative Government , today ' s announcement will be welcome news . I welcome the sorely need uplift in the early year pupil premium , but school - base nursery can only ever be part of the puzzle . we will never fix the crisis in early year without fix the deep problem face private and charitable provider . they deliver the vast bulk of the Government ' s free entitlement , yet they face some of the tough challenge in make end meet . the Government ' s national insurance hike , the failure to ensure that rate actually cover delivery cost and damage guidance to local authority on funding agreement , which come into effect this week , mean that many be struggle to stay afloat . we have already hear that the Early Years Alliance survey find that four in 10 say they would reduce their number of funded place for three - year - old and four - year - old in the next year . some 94 % say they would be force to raise their fee for parent for non - fund hour , and almost a third say they be likely to permanently close . can the Secretary of State tell I how that be extend choice for parent ? Building Blocks nursery in Teddington in my constituency be now operate at a loss and face some incredibly painful decision that will hurt parent , child and staff . while I welcome today ' s announcement , will the Secretary of State commit to an urgent review of the rate pay for free entitlement to ensure that they cover delivery cost ? will she finally take this opportunity to recognise the deep damage that the national insurance hike be do and ensure that early year provider be exempt ? finally , will she look again at the damaging guidance issue by her Department on charge and funding agreement ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady . like she , I pay tribute to the big range of provider that play a crucial role in support our child ' s early education . that extend to private voluntary provider and childminder , who be a crucial part of the sector . the announcement we be make today on school - base nursery be design to deal with many of the challenge that she identify arise from the childcare desert leave behind by the Conservatives . we also know that school - base provider have a great share of the market in more deprive area , and 34 % of those announce today will serve disadvantaged community . [ Official Report , 23 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 9WC . ] ( Correction ) alongside that , I note that the hon . Lady welcome the big ever uplift that we have secure in the early year pupil premium , which will make a big difference to the life chance of child from more disadvantaged background . when it come to the rate , we will always continue to keep those under review . the hon . Lady ask about the charge guidance that have be issue . I believe it be important that parent have great transparency when it come to charge and fee , and where they be able to exercise great choice in what be be offer to they . I believe that be the right approach , not least as we move towards a system in which the vast bulk of childcare be back by Government . I have see more Tory mp change a lightbulb than there be in the Chamber today . I welcome the statement from the Secretary of State — as do Thomas Gray primary school , a very good school in my constituency ; the parent and child do a fantastic job there — and I thank she for it . do she agree that , quite simply , action speak louder than the many word the opposition say ? I agree with my hon . friend . like he , I pay tribute to the amazing staff work right across education in our school and nursery for the vital work they do . I like the right hon . Lady , and I really enjoy her sunlit - uplands speech — anyone would think there be a leadership contest on in the Labour party . I do not quite hear the answer to the question from my right hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) about the way in which the increase in national insurance contribution will hit all nursery at once , whereas at the moment we be get an initial tranche of 300 out of an intend 3 , 000 new arrangement for her announcement to be fulfil . over how long a period do she expect to get from 300 to 3 , 000 ? I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman like a bit of hope and optimism ; I think we could all do with a bit of hope and optimism in the current world . the leadership contest I be really look forward to be the one that we be go to see very soon in his own party . it will be a treat for all of we in this House , although I hope it do not happen , because I would much prefer for thing to carry on just as they be . I note the question that the right hon . Gentleman ask . we have secure an extra £ 2 billion in the Budget , take the total to £ 8 billion for early year entitlement . in addition , we have a £ 75 million expansion grant , compensation for public sector employer and , alongside that , the big ever uplift in the early year pupil premium . we be work very closely with the sector to deliver the place and the staff require , and we will continue to do so in the month ahead . answer the question ! in answer to the question , this be the first phase , and we will roll out the 3 , 000 over the course of this Parliament . I warmly welcome the refocusing on early year by this Government , and I also welcome the school - base nursery announcement today ; I be particularly excited about the one at Tranmere Park primary school in Guiseley in my constituency . how many child do we think will be affect by this announcement , and how many parent will benefit from it ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , and I look forward to the extra place that will be available in her constituency to serve local family . what we be set out today will create 6 , 000 new childcare place , most of which we expect to be available from September 2025 . we be move rapidly to support school to put in place the space for child that we know be require . behind capital funding , what give child the good start in life be the people , such as early year practitioner , teacher and teaching assistant . the early year sector be struggle with a crisis in recruitment and retention , especially in rural area such as my constituency . that lead to few place for child and high cost for family . what step be the Government take to address the lack of resource , skill and experience in school and other early year sector for deliver high - quality education to under - three ? I agree with the hon . Lady that it be the brilliant people work in early year education who make the big difference to our child ' s life chance . of course , we need to put the capital in place to create the physical provision , but it be the people who deliver it who matter the most — I know that the hon . Lady bring expertise in that area to this House . I agree that there be more to do to support the workforce , but we have already take important step to support the sector to recruit and retain more staff ahead of the final phase of the roll - out . we have also recently introduce an experience - base route to work in the sector at level 3 and have publish the early year teacher degree apprenticeship standard , a new undergraduate route to early year teacher status . later this year , we will set out more detail on wide reform , include look at the question about workforce that the hon . Lady have raise . I warmly welcome the statement from my right hon . friend and neighbour . I particularly welcome the fact that Yohden primary school in my constituency — one of the most deprived and disadvantaged community not just in the county , but in the country — will benefit . that be tremendous news , but can my right hon . friend outline the Government ' s timetable and commit to expand the scheme still far , so that parent across my constituency and other can look forward to an improvement in childcare provision ? I join my hon . friend in send my good wish to the staff at Yohden primary school , and I recognise the important work that they do to support family and child from more disadvantaged background . this announcement be an important first step in the Government ' s ambitious plan for change , break the link between background and success , and make sure that a record proportion of child start school ready to learn . this be the first phase of what we intend to do , but there be more to come right throughout this Parliament . on Friday , I meet 20 incredible woman run nursery and pre - school in Havering . they contact I because they be in utter crisis . business rate , national insurance and wage bill be all rise , while the Government cap what they be allow to charge and then do not cover the cost of the free childcare hour be offer . fee be go up , and nursery be now at risk of mass closure . the Education Secretary be drive private nursery to the brink while not provide enough school - base one to fill the gap , and I be afraid that her talk of hope be absolutely delusional . as a parent with two small child who speak regularly to the woman run those nursery , watch labour Back Benchers jeer the shadow Secretary of State for ask question be absolutely disgusting . what urgent action be the Education Secretary take to prevent a meltdown in childcare that be go to affect work family across this country ? I , too , speak to early year provider , school , nursery and childminder right across our country on a regular basis , unlike Conservative Front Benchers , who seem to spend most of their time complain about announcement that this Labour Government be make . I also pay tribute to the early year workforce and the staff in the hon . Lady ' s constituency for the important work that they be do . as I have say in a number of answer , we have set out £ 8 billion in funding , alongside the big ever uplift to the early year pupil premium and a £ 75 million expansion grant to create the place that be require , and that be on top of the £ 37 million of capital funding that I have announce today . I welcome this Government ' s continued commitment to break down barrier to opportunity , and I welcome the investment in the nursery at Monks Orchard primary school and Fairchildes primary school in my constituency — I visit Fairchildes early in the year , and I know that that money will go to very good use . do the Secretary of State agree that accessible childcare be essential support for all family , and can she outline how today ' s announcement will help to boost household income ? I be delighted that my hon . friend have be able to see at first hand in her Croydon constituency the impact that this funding will have on family . it will support we in ensure that a record proportion of child arrive at school ready to learn , and will make a significant difference in support family and child development . critically , as my hon . friend identify , it will also put more money directly back into parent ' pocket — the figure be £ 7 , 500 . I welcome the Government ' s announcement today , but not every parent need a full childcare place ; many just need somewhere to go with their child , especially in the early month , as parenting can be an isolate and overwhelming experience . what be the Government do to support community - base option such as one o ' clock club and the sure Start centre , which provide vital space for parent and child alike ? I agree about the importance of family support service , especially for our young child . the hon . Lady mention sure Start ; that be a proud achievement of the last Labour Government , and when her party be in coalition with the Conservatives , we see sure Start centre close right across the country . however , she make a fair point about the support that be require in the early year , which be why we be do more , and will do more in the month ahead . while access to early education be a critical part of what many family want , alongside access to high - quality health visiting and speech and language support , community provision be also critical . that be why I be work very closely with the Health Secretary to ensure that all family have good access to both education service and health and care service . I would like to express my gratitude and welcome this news today . two new nursery will be open in Bristol North East , the Tynings school in Staple Hill and Avanti Gardens in Fishponds , both area that have lot of young family but not enough nursery provision . can the Secretary of State reassure other family in Bristol North East and across the country that this announcement be just the start , and that under a Labour Government , we will see lot more nursery place open ? parent in my hon . friend ' s constituency will be able to benefit now from the expansion of school - base nursery , but this be just the start . alongside the expansion in primary school that I have set out , we be work very closely with private and voluntary provider and with childminder to deliver the place that family in my hon . friend ' s constituency and across the country be promise by the Conservative party , but that this Labour Government will deliver . Emma , who run a nursery in the small village of Sayers Common in my constituency , write to I recently about the impact of national insurance rise . I recognise that today ' s announcement be focus on really deprive area , and I can see that two primary school in Crawley in West Sussex that will benefit . that be a town with proper deprivation , but deprivation also exist in rural area , and I be worried that today ' s announcement be give with one hand to deprive urban area , but take away with the other by hammer nursery in our rural village with increase national insurance contribution . I can assure the hon . Lady that the list of school announce today cover constituency the length and breadth of our country , serve constituency both urban and rural . I recognise her point about ensure that there be good , adequate provision in our rural community as well , and if she want to share Emma ' s letter and experience with I , I would be happy to respond . I thank the Secretary of State for invest in Battle Hill primary school in the ward in which I live , where I be proud to be a school governor for 20 year . do she agree that invest in nursery in deprive area such as Battle Hill be essential in order to give very young child a good start to their education journey ? I agree with my hon . friend — that be where we will make the big difference to child ' s life chance . all the evidence be clear that where gap open up early , they endure into the long run , which have a last impact on child ' s ability to do well at school and get good gcse and on their earning potential into the future . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work she have do over many year to support her community , include as a school governor . while I , too , be excited about the opportunity for some community , I be really concerned about the grow gap between school - base nursery and community - base one — setting in my constituency such as Cuddles , Trailway Tots , and nature nursery . when those nursery have write to Ministers to express their concern , they have often be encourage to apply for small business rate relief , but give the space standard , that relief simply do not apply . in 2023 - 24 , the average early year set pay £ 21 , 000 in business rate , so those nursery can not apply because of the standard require by the education service . in Wales and Scotland , nursery be exempt from business rate , and school have they factor into their funding formula . how be we go to make sure that community setting benefit and that we be not just see toddler transfer into school setting , with other setting close ? I be sure that if the hon . Lady write with further information , the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , will be happy to respond to her question , but I hope I can give she some reassurance by say that 27 of the school that will receive funding will be in a partnership with a private or voluntary early year provider on the school site . moreover , many of the provider that will deliver the service I have announce will do so around the school day : many school will ensure that there be provision throughout the year , but also at the start and the end of school day , often deliver in partnership with private or voluntary provider . four school in Suffolk will benefit from today ' s announcement , and two of they be in my constituency . I be delighted that Reydon and Waldringfield primary school will benefit . do the Minister agree that this new scheme will directly benefit rural constituency such as mine at a time when access to nursery provision be even more challenging for family , include work family , than it be for their urban neighbour ? I be delighted to hear about the impact that this will have on my hon . friend ' s constituency and throughout Suffolk . we believe that in rural community there be an important role for school - base provision and expand early year opportunity . where school be already at the heart or our community , what I have announce will allow further provision , create early year place that will support child and their family , and , crucially , it also represent an important step in support child development . I welcome the announcement . Curry Mallet Church of England school in my constituency be successful in this funding round , and can expand its early year provision . however , many early year provider , such as Hassockmoor Childcare in Barrington , face significant funding challenge . give that more than three quarter of entitlement place be provide by private voluntary or independent nursery , why be those not more central to expansion plan as they continue to experience the nightmare of increase employer nic , price rise and , sadly , the risk of closure ? they be central to our plan , and they have a critical role to play in support for child and family and delivery of the roll - out , but school - base nursery also have an important role in support child from more disadvantaged community where they already have a high proportion of the market share . we think that that can be expand far to provide high - quality early year provision , which will involve work with private , voluntary and independent provider . I pay tribute to the early year workforce , and I strongly support the Secretary of State ' s announcement , which build on other announcement make recently by she and other in her Department . will she say a little more about the benefit for , in particular , the most disadvantaged child , include those who may have English as a second language ? we know from all the evidence that child from the most disadvantaged background have the most to gain from high - quality early year education . today ' s announcement will allow we to provide more place for they , alongside the expansion and the big uplift in the early year pupil premium . when it come to childcare , we be determined to enable child from more disadvantaged background to take up place . I welcome the announcement and , in particular , the increase funding , but the Government also need to address the problem of fund nursery provision in the private sector . the Castle Kindergarten in my constituency have write to I say that new restriction on what nursery can charge parent to bridge the gap between Government funding and the actual cost of childcare service be put most private provider in a precarious position . accord to a recent article in the Times , nearly 60 % of childcare provider plan to limit the number of government - fund place owe to those restriction . will the Secretary of State meet I , along with my constituent , to discuss this issue ? my hon . friend the parliamentary Under - Secretary will be happy to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss that far . in respect of charging and guidance , I think it an important principle that parent should have transparency on what they be be charge and what they be be charge for , especially when it come to access to government - back provision . as for funding , I have already tell the House that we have increase the early year pupil premium by 45 % , and alongside that be the £ 75 million expansion grant . this year , the rate for under - two have increase by , on average , 3 . 4 % . I welcome the announcement of capital funding , which will benefit Armthorpe ' s Shaw Wood academy in my constituency , but what revenue funding nursery will receive ? the investment in my hon . friend ' s constituency will allow parent to take up the offer of expand childcare and entitlement , and we will ensure that the place be available to they . eligible parent will have access to the entitlement that we be expand and roll out with the £ 8 billion of investment that be announce in the Budget . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and warmly welcome the inclusion of Great Horwood Church of England school in the first round of funding . like every school leader in Buckinghamshire , Milton Keynes and the country as a whole , the school ' s headteacher , Paula Shaw , be work tirelessly to ensure that all child and their family have the opportunity to thrive . do the Secretary of State agree that it be vital to ensure that parent in both urban and rural community never have to choose between their family and their job ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I pay tribute to Paula Shaw and the team for all their work to support child and family . we be delighted that so many school come forward to apply to take part in this first phase . demand far outstrip supply , so we will be return to this . however , I be also delighted that Paula and her team feel able to take part and to see the benefit that the extra place will bring to my hon . friend ' s constituent . this have be a game - change announcement for my community . not only have Runshaw college in Leyland be award £ 1 . 8 million as part of the high education capital improvement fund , but Northbrook primary academy , also in Leyland , and Longton primary school have be include in the school - base nursery provision . I be delighted about that , and I thank the Ministers . do the Secretary of State agree that this offer a huge opportunity for the development of young child , as well as put large sum back in the pocket of work people ? we promise and we deliver , and that be why the conservative Benches be empty . my hon . friend be a brilliant champion for the people of South Ribble , and it be a testament to his hard work that he continue to make the case for investment . as well as put more money back into parent ' pocket through our breakfast club and by roll out primary - base nursery , we be enable all our child to have a brilliant start in life . I know that my hon . friend be as passionate as I be about ensure that we break the link between background and success , so that where a child be from do not determine what that child can go on to achieve . I be delighted that the fantastic Ringway primary school in Stakeford , in my constituency , will be among the first in the country to host a school - base nursery . that , combine with the much - needed — and long in the planning — rebuilding of the school facility will have an immeasurable impact on the life chance of young people in my area . do my right hon . friend agree that investment of this nature , mainly in socially deprive area , will be of huge importance , and will she commit herself to roll out further such scheme on my patch as soon as possible ? my hon . friend can be assure that the early adopter breakfast club programme , for instance , be just the start of a national roll - out . I , too , be delighted that Ringway be part of the first phase of our school - base nursery programme , and we be determined to ensure that there be more provision throughout the country . of those that I have announce today , 34 % will serve community that experience disadvantage . it be important for we to ensure that all family can take up childcare and early year provision , and it be critical that we deliver those place . [ Official Report , 23 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 10wc . ] ( Correction ) today ' s announcement of £ 37 million of capital investment , include investment in my hon . friend ' s constituency , will be a crucial part of that . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I have the opportunity only last week to visit Jerounds primary school in my constituency , and see the incredible work that it be do in support young people and show they the value of community pride and the importance of oracy . I have to say that they give their local MP a very good grilling . I be delighted that Jerounds will be one of the 300 school to deliver on our pledge of a new school - base surgery . may I ask how this will benefit child and parent in my constituency , and , like other , ask for more provision in Harlow ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the team at Jerounds for their amazing work in give our child the good start in life . I be delighted that they be able to take part in the scheme . my announcement and those make by other across Government mean put more money back into parent ' pocket , but also ensure that all our child have a brilliant start in life and parent be give extra choice when it come to the work hour that well fit their family circumstance . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement that seven new school - base nursery will be establish in County Durham , include one at Bloemfontein primary school in my constituency . the headteacher have say that this will transform unused space at the school and help address the current shortage of nursery space in our area . do the Secretary of State agree that parent in Craghead and beyond in North Durham will benefit from cheap childcare through these new school - base nursery ? as my hon . friend set out , parent right across County Durham will be able to benefit from high - quality , more affordable childcare that be more available . we be put money back into parent ' pocket , but we be also provide the place that be require across our country , include in community that have the most to gain from high - quality early year provision . we know that child from more disadvantaged background gain the most when they can access early year education , and that be the difference that this Labour Government be make . I thank the Secretary of State for today ' s announcement , which include funding for more nursery place at Allenby primary school in Ealing Southall , save local family an average of £ 7 , 500 a year in childcare cost . do she agree that take together with yesterday ' s increase to the national living wage , which will see £ 1 , 400 add to 3 million people ' s pay packet , this be clear evidence of labour deliver on our promise to make work pay ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I join she in send my good wish to Allenby , which be take part in our first phase . she be right to say that this be the difference that a Labour Government be make . we be support work family and put more money back into their pocket , and we deliver a record pay rise yesterday . alongside that , we have a crucial focus on make sure that , in the early year , our child get all the support that they deserve to break the link between background and success . Swaffham be a small market town in my rural constituency . it have see significant house building over the last few year , so every time I go there people be keen to talk about the impact of childcare and the lack of space , which be why I be so pleased that Swaffham Church of England primary academy be be fund as part of this scheme . may I warmly invite the Secretary of State to Swaffham to see the positive impact that this policy be have on rural community such as mine ? my hon . friend raise an important point : where we see housing development and change take place , we must ensure that we have high - quality childcare and early year provision run alongside that . through the bidding that school be able to take part in , we consider question about local need , and I be delighted that Swaffham will be take part . either I or my hon . friend the Under - Secretary will be happy to visit the area to see the provision , perhaps when it be up and run . I could not be more pleased to welcome today ' s news . as a former nursery manager , I understand the need to ensure that all child have the very good start . I remember the sense of abandonment when sure Start , health visitor and school nurse be retract from our community provision . like many other , I have to face salary cut and salary sacrifice to keep our nursery door open over the last eight year under the previous Government . on Friday , I visit Stockingford academy , one of the school benefit from the today ' s announcement , and hear from its dedicated team about the challenge they face . this year , only 7 % of the 75 child be on track . do the Secretary of State agree that the new provision will transform high - deprivation place , where 46 % of the population already have high level of debt ? that take I back to June last year , when my hon . friend , who be at that point labour ' s parliamentary candidate , and I launch Labour ' s plan to deliver more school - base nursery . today , come out of that plan , we have announce the action that parent in this country vote for . rise — order . long question be just go to prevent other from get in , so I ask Members please to keep they short . in response to my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) , I actually think there be few conservative Members present than there be page in the book " the very Hungry Caterpillar " , which say everything about where they be come from . I be really grateful to the Secretary of State for her statement and for the fact that the town of Chipping Norton in my constituency will get one of the first 300 school - base nursery announce today . do she find it hard , as I do , to take lecture from the Conservative party when it come to the provision of childcare ? yes . it be this Labour Government who be get on and deliver the childcare place that parent across our country want to see , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency of Banbury . I know how hard he work for his constituent to make sure that their voice be hear in this place . he be a real champion for local family , and I want to make sure that , by work together with he and colleague from right across the House , we deliver well life chance for all our child . accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies ' small business report , early year education be vital for child ' s development , so I welcome today ' s announcement that school - base nursery will be create at horste infant school and two other school in Medway , and at five other in Kent . do the Minister agree that this investment , couple with that give by Labour council across the country through school street programme , will create a true learn environment that be fit for purpose ? I join my hon . friend in welcome the important contribution that horste , in his constituency , will make as part of this scheme . I agree that we have to do a lot more as a country to make sure that all our child get a brilliant range of experience , include in their early year , with the high - quality provision . today ' s announcement take we a step far towards that reality . the Secretary of State say in her announcement that many of these school - base nursery will be in place with the great need . that be certainly the case in my constituency , and I be very grateful that Portway primary in West Ham have be include . I have say in this House before that my constituent do not lack ambition ; they lack opportunity , and education be the golden ticket to that opportunity . do the Secretary of State agree that nursery provide opportunity not only for child but for adult , and can she assure we that , as the programme be roll out , the focus will remain on area that have not only educational need but economic need and other form of deprivation ? as my hon . Friend say , the expand provision at Portway in his constituency will make a big difference by support parent to take on work opportunity , to have more money in their pocket , and to take on the hour that suit they . critically , it will allow we to provide more support for child , include those from disadvantaged background , right across his constituency . treleigh primary school sit at the heart of my Camborne , Redruth and Hayle constituency . it be surround by an area that suffer from profound level of poverty and deprivation . if ever there be an area that need some good news on early year , it be mine , follow the shameful neglect by the previous Government . do the Minister agree that new childcare place in new and expand nursery , include at Treleigh primary school , will help child from the most deprived background have the good start in life , after the life chance of child from deprive background be ignore by the conservative party for year ? my hon . friend raise an important point about the impact that this policy will have . on average , 40 % of the overall gap between disadvantaged 16 - year - old and their peer have already emerge by the age of five . that be why it be critical that we invest in the early year to give more child the good possible start in life , and today ' s announcement will create much need high - quality early year provision and place , include in his constituency . I enormously welcome the Government ' s decision to introduce 300 new Government - fund school - base nursery . I be particularly delighted that one of they will be in the Hampton Vale primary academy in my constituency . do the Secretary of State agree that these new nursery will make a real difference to family in my constituency and across the country by save they up to £ 7 , 500 ? yes . today ' s announcement will support parent to save up to £ 7 , 500 a year , put more money back into their pocket . take together with our commitment to roll out 750 free breakfast club from later on this month , it be clear that this Labour Government be on the side of work parent . the announcement of a new school - base nursery at the Heath Hayes primary academy in my Cannock Chase constituency be very welcome , and show that this Labour Government be keep their promise and deliver for parent and child . as capacity be very stretch at Heath Hayes , this capital investment be very welcome . I be the parent of a child who benefit hugely from a school nursery . do my right hon . friend agree that school - base nursery set child up perfectly for go into reception ? I agree with my hon . friend . I have see for myself the impact that this policy have , particularly for parent who already have old child at school . it ease the transition from nursery to reception and set up child to succeed . importantly , it allow staff to build relationship with parent and family , and to identify whether problem be develop in area such as SEND , where the early we spot problem , the early we can intervene and put in place the support that be require . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , because this be an investment in early year , which be an investment in the future of our community . in my constituency , there be an investment of hundred of thousand of pound at Springhill primary academy in Burntwood , Boney Hay primary academy in Burntwood and St Stephen ' s primary in Fradley . these school do amazing work in support the next generation , and this money will be use to renovate facility , give child a well environment in which to start their learning , expand the number of place and help provide the 30 hour of free childcare that work parent so desperately need . can I put on record my thank to these school , and can I ask if the Secretary of State will join I in visit school and celebrate the work they do ? just say yes , Secretary of State . [ laughter . ] I will do my very good to visit Lichfield to see the fantastic provision and , critically , to see the brilliant work my hon . friend be do to champion local school and nursery in his constituency . we on these Benches recognise that school - base childcare offer some of the good childcare . I welcome the statement from the Secretary of State , which mean that the Government will be support the expansion of the rural nursery at Paddle school near Cockermouth . could the Secretary of State share with the House how these plan will help parent get into work ? my hon . friend know well than most the importance of high - quality provision , include in rural community , allow parent to avoid have to travel considerable distance . this announcement will make a big difference in his constituency and in constituency across the country . from the application to the scheme , we see real demand . More than 640 school apply to take part , so there be a big demand , which we want to take forward in future phase , include in rural community . after a night of little sleep , I be feel something that many have say in this Chamber before : be a parent in this country be too exhausting and too expensive . that be why on Friday I be host a coffee morning target at dad , with former Wigan Warriors player and Andy ' s Man Club . it be also why I be so delighted that , down the road , Hindley Green community primary and Hindley St Peter ' s will benefit from this Government ' s investment in new nursery . this Labour Government be invest in the work family I represent . can I thank the Secretary of State for that , and ask she about the timeline for roll out the scheme to further school that I represent in my constituency ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the work that he be do to support local family and also dad . become a parent for the first time can be a daunting experience for mother , but it can also be daunt for father , and they need support as well , so I pay tribute to he . this be the first phase of our announcement . we will draw on the experience of the school that take part in the first phase as we take forward future phase . the majority of the 6 , 000 new place create will be available from September 2025 . that be the difference that a Labour Government be make . I be so excited to hear about the nursery at St Anne ' s church academy in Weston - super - Mare , especially from the Dispatch Box today . People such as Julie McCallum at Play and learn pre - school in Worle have shoulder the burden of the previous Government ' s evisceration of early year and of their lack of strategy . will the Secretary of State join I in thank so many early year practitioner across my constituency and the UK for their tireless work to give our child the good start possible ? I congratulate the amazing early year workforce and our education workforce in Weston - super - Mare and across our country . they be the people who make the big difference for child in such setting . important as capital be to create the place , it be the people who deliver for our child and support they in their early year who make the big difference , and for that they deserve our praise . we start out with six Conservative Members , which we can divide by two to get the number now leave on their Benches . give their track record in this field , perhaps the rest have be put in detention for the rest of the day . I be so proud to see that Smallthorne primary academy in my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove have be select for a new school - base nursery . do the Secretary of State agree with I that these nursery be vital in place such as Smallthorne , not only for the childcare they provide , but for help with school - readiness , close the developmental gap early on and give every single child the good start in life ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the difference that early year provision make , not just in those crucial early year but right throughout child ' s life . the evidence could not be clear . I be delighted that , in Smallthorne and in many community across our country , more child will have the opportunity to benefit from high - quality early year provision , which be critical to their life chance and also really important for parent in his constituency . I be sure that the child of Pondhu primary school and their family be delighted to welcome the investment in the nursery announce by the Secretary of State , not least because St Austell Central have sadly become the second most deprived ward in the whole of Cornwall . what impact do the Secretary of State expect the investment to have on the life chance of child live in deprive family ? we know that child from more disadvantaged background will have the most benefit from high - quality early year education , and they benefit the most when that start early . so much of the overall gap will have open up by that age ; 40 % of the overall gap between disadvantaged 16 - year - old and their peer have already emerge by the age of five . that be why it be essential that we do more to support child and family when child be young . that be right for those child and their family , and it be also an investment in our country ' s future . look at the Conservative Benches , I be sure that those on the Conservative Front Bench be glad that this statement be about nursery , rather than school attendance — or truancy . I thank the Secretary of State for join I in Peterborough early this week to meet the fantastic pupil , parent and staff at Fulbridge academy , which excel in give great education to student in my constituency . will she join I in congratulate and pay tribute to Ben Erskine and the brilliant staff team at the school ? do she agree that with leadership , a relentless focus on standard and the resource in today ' s announcement , absolutely nothing can hold back the ambition of working - class community like mine ? I be delighted to join my hon . friend in visit Fulbridge and to meet the brilliant staff team , who be do so much to support all child in that community , so that they can achieve all they be capable of . there should be no ceiling on child ' s ambition and aspiration , include in working - class community . I know he will continue to champion his constituency and community , and ensure that , alongside our plan for change , we deliver a country in which background be no barrier to get on in life , and in which we have break the link between background and success . I warmly welcome the news that uplands primary school in Sandhurst have be award funding to expand its school - base nursery . will the Secretary of State set out what this mean for Labour ' s commitment to deliver top - quality childcare for family across my constituency and the country ? this Labour Government want to make sure that family can access childcare support . that be important for family ' work choice and , critically , for child ' s development . that be why we have set ourselves an ambitious target of ensure that a record number of child be school - ready when they start school , and high - quality early year provision , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency , be a critical part of that . alongside that , this announcement will put more money back into parent ' pocket . I feel as though I should declare an interest , as I be the proud dad of a little boy who be literally take his first step as our government take these important step in a critical area . I welcome the statement and all the Secretary of State ' s work in this area . I particularly welcome the fact that St Stephen ' s in my constituency of Worsley and Eccles will be home to one of these nursery . as the Secretary of State well know , I have long be a champion of available , affordable and accessible childcare , especially for work parent . do she agree that deliver on these aim be a real sign that our Government be deliver for child and their parent ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . for many year , when our party be in opposition , I campaign alongside he to make sure that work parent get the support that they need to get on at work , have good working standard and condition and , critically , can access high - quality early year provision and childcare . this announcement of about £ 37 million of extra capital investment , include at St Stephen ' s in his constituency , will make a big difference to work parent in his constituency and across our country , but it be also an important part of this Government ' s plan for change , which break the link between background and success . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be look for guidance on how I can raise a breach of the behaviour code by the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . he be galivante around my constituency yesterday , and I think it a real shame that he do not tell I about his visit in advance , as the behaviour code require he to ; I could have take he around all the community that would be impact by his party ' s plan to privatise the NHS . this follow an incident in February , when the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , also visit my constituency without tell I in advance . how can I ensure that section 43 of the behaviour code be uphold in future ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . I take it that he have notify the Members concerned that he intend to refer to they . indicate assent . I remind all hon . member that they must inform colleague in advance whenever they intend to visit another colleague ' s constituency , unless the visit be make for private purpose . that be now most definitely on the record . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance on this important matter . two week ago , the hon . member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) come to my constituency campaigning , and do not inform I that he be visit . I would very much welcome it if you perhaps take this opportunity to remind he of the behaviour code , too . the hon . member , if he be follow procedure , should have inform I or the Clerks that he intend to raise that point of order . maybe his point be a matter for next time . it have be raise and record . rise — we do not need continued point of order on this issue , thank you so much . we will proceed . Bill present Groceries Labelling ( Size Reduction ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Blair McDougall present a Bill to make provision about labelling requirement for certain grocery product where the manufacturer have reduce the size of the product ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 218 ) . co - operative Housing Tenure Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision that occupier of dwelling own by certain form of co - operative shall occupy those dwelling by virtue of their membership of the co - operative and not as tenant or under any other type of property interest ; to make provision for co - operative tenure and for the right and obligation of the co - operative and its member ; and for connected purpose . it be my privilege and my pleasure to introduce the Bill . I have always have co - operative value . they be in my bone . it be not far from the mark to say that I be bear in the Co - op . it certainly feed , clothe and provide essential good to I in my early year , and I have take those value with I throughout my life . for six year , I serve as a director of the Co - operative Development Society , support community housing project and co - operative across the country . co - operative housing be more than just an idea . despite the significant barrier they face , there be hundred of co - operative housing project across the country , and the number be grow . just last week , I be lucky enough to visit Coin Street , just over the river in Waterloo . forty year ago , the Coin Street Community Builders come together to fight against the rapid development of unaffordable commercial housing in London , which be lead to the total collapse of the community around they ; shop , school and community space be all close . they fight hard to buy the land and build a new housing co - operative on the bank of the Thames . today , there be four housing co - operative on Coin Street , all manage by their resident , many of whom have live there for decade . these be more than just home . for the people who live there , they be route to training , education , decision - making and genuine power . this be housing do differently . for too many people , housing be something they have little control over . work people have face a housing sector that be break , and have little opportunity to change that . for too long , when it come to housing , power have feel very distant from community , but for co - operative housing project , power have always sit directly with resident . when decision be make , resident be in the drive seat . they have an active stake and say in the place they call home . the power of that should not be underestimate . crucially , co - operative housing project provide an alternative to the spiral rent and mortgage cost that too many member will be familiar with , and which have plague the housing sector for decade . I want to place on record my thank to Lucy Grove and Finn Byrne from the Coin Street team , and to Tom , a Coin Street resident , for all the work that they do to promote co - operative housing and its potential , and for show I around last week . I pay tribute to David Rodgers , the long stand chief executive officer of CDS Housing , and his successor Linda Wallace , and to my great friend Laura Blake for all the work she do alongside I to promote co - operative housing . now be the moment to grasp the opportunity that co - operative housing offer . just last week , the Government announce a new funding package for community - lead housing , co - operative and community land trust , unlock thousand more home over the next decade . this Labour Government understand that community - lead housing be about put power into the hand of local people , who will take a lead in design the home they want to see in their community . this be the first time the Government have support this approach to financing house building on this scale , and it have rightly be warmly welcome by the sector , and by community who want to get involve in locally lead community housing solution . unlock the power of co - operative housing will be possible only if it be give a foundation in law . co - operative housing do exist in the UK , and in many case it thrive , but local people seek to form a housing co - operative face an uphill legal battle . without co - operative housing tenure be set out in law , adviser , regulator , lawyer , bank and other who would normally be task with support people with their housing be not properly equip to do so in the case of co - operative housing . the United Nations have declare this to be the International Year of Co - operative , and have call on member state to create " enable environment for co - operative " . this Labour Government already have a bold commitment to double the size of the co - operative and mutual sector , and have be clear that co - operative should play a vital role in drive inclusive growth that be feel by work people and community . now should be the moment to commit to a co - operative housing tenure , so that this part of our sector can grow and thrive as it have never be enable to previously . as be sadly often the case , the UK lag behind our neighbour around the world when it come to co - operative housing and its position in law . Sweden have have co - operative housing law for more than a century , and Norway for almost 80 year . it be no surprise that in those two country , and in many more , co - operative housing be far more prevalent and successful than it be here . to close , I want to reflect briefly on the role that co - operative housing project be play in wide community . I be proud and privileged to be a Labour and Co - operative MP , and to be part of the Co - operative party ' s " Community Britain " campaign , which argue that work be already under way in so many of our community to solve , in serious and innovative way , the big challenge that our country face . we see that in local community - own energy project , in which people come together not just to tackle climate change through clean energy , but to upskill local people . we see it in agriculture , in amazing initiative such as the English Mustard Growers co - operative , which be keep mustard alive in my constituency and across the east of England . we see it in local initiative such as man ' s Sheds , which be fight the loneliness epidemic , or community kitchen , which be bring people from different culture together . what I learn at Coin Street be that it be more than just a housing development . the co - operative model have foster a genuine community . build on land own by the co - operative be a community pub , a collection of small independent business , a multi - purpose neighbourhood centre include a nursery and a soon - to - be - develop community leisure centre . the co - operative even have a relationship with the renowned Rambert ballet school nearby , which allow resident of all age to access dance and culture at accessible and affordable price . Coin Street be a rich community , lead by the need and want of local people . it all start with the co - operative model — group of people come together to build something different and reap the benefit . at a time when share space like community centre , pub and leisure centre have disappear across the country , there be surely a case for this model to come to the fore . question put and agree to . order , that Andrew Pakes , Helena Dollimore , Dame Meg Hillier , Paul Waugh , Preet Kaur Gill , Ms Stella Creasy , Alice Macdonald , Gareth Snell , Florence Eshalomi , Sarah Hall , Alex Sobel and Rachel Blake present the Bill . Andrew Pakes accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June , and to be print ( Bill 219 ) . Onshore Wind and Solar Generation I beg to move , that the draft Infrastructure Planning ( Onshore Wind and Solar Generation ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 10 March , be approve . good afternoon , Madam Deputy Speaker . this instrument be another important step in support the deployment of onshore wind and solar , which be critical to achieve the Government ' s mission for clean power by 2030 . an effective planning system be key to unlock the new infrastructure our country need to deliver our energy security and resilience . it be important that planning application be determine through an appropriate planning route that reflect a project ' s size , impact and complexity , where potential issue be identify and mitigate as necessary . the nationally significant infrastructure project regime be govern by the Planning Act 2008 , whereby decision on development consent be make by the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . the NSIP regime apply to large project , with a megawatt threshold determine which energy generating project be deem nationally significant . follow submission into the NSIP process , an extensive examination period will commence , where interested party — include local authority , people of office and the general public — can make write or oral representation to the examination , ensure that the voice of community be hear during the decision - make process . rather than traduce what remain of our countryside , what assessment have the Minister make of the UK - Morocco power project run by xlink , which would deliver 11 . 5 GW of energy and power about 8 % of our grid need ? it would seem that the block to this project be not the Moroccan Government , nor the government of country through whose territorial sea the cable would pass , but reside instead in Whitehall . what be the Minister do about it ? I give credit to the right hon . gentleman for the ingenious way he bring that up in a debate on solar and wind in the UK . he raise a good point . we be look at the detail of a proposal that have be put forward by a private company — I be not go to say anything more on the Floor of the House . rise — I have give way already . turn back to the statutory instrument in front of we , until recently the de facto ban on onshore wind generation in England introduce by the Conservatives limit the deployment of onshore wind in England . those change to the planning legislation set an almost impossible bar to meet , result in the pipeline of project shrink by more than 90 % , with less than 40 MW of onshore wind generation consent and become operational in the intervene period . in July 2024 , this Government disapplie those planning policy test and commit to reintroduce onshore wind into the NSIP regime , reverse the damaging policy of the past 10 year and place onshore wind on the same footing as solar , offshore wind and nuclear power station . as such , through this instrument , onshore wind project with a generating capacity of more than 100 MW in England will be eligible to be consent under the NSIP regime . this legislation be crucial to achieve our net zero commitment . GE Vernova , a renewable company in Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , struggle with really long waiting time for an expansion of its site , but it have recently be approve , which mean good new job for people who live in my constituency . that exemplify the importance of streamline the planning process , which will eventually lead to low bill for people in my constituency and around the country . do the Minister agree that this legislation be integral to develop the job we need across the country , and would he like to come and visit GE Vernova with I ? I thank my hon . friend for that warm invitation ; I will of course consider it , and I look forward to visit her constituency at some point . she make an extremely important point . we be reform the planning system to deal with challenge that have mean that , for too long , infrastructure that be incredibly important for our energy security have be hold back by dither and delay in the process . we want to sweep that away and move forward much more quickly . the prize be energy security , but as she rightly point out , this be also about job and investment in community right across the country . will the Minister give way ? I will , then I need to make progress . the Minister talk about our energy security . what will increase our energy security be issue new oil and gas licence so that we can have more home - grow energy . why will the Minister not change his policy on that ? we really be stretch this debate , but I be very happy to discuss this matter . the point have be raise on a number of occasion , and the answer be always the same : it be not deliver energy security at the moment . we have say very clearly that oil and gas play a crucial role in our energy mix now , and it will continue to play a role for decade to come , but the North sea be already in transition . the reality of the past 10 year under the Conservatives be that more than 70 , 000 job be lose , with no plan for how to deal with it . we be determined to deliver on the transition and on energy security , which will get we off the rollercoaster of fossil fuel price that we be all still ride . will the Minister give way ? I will make a little progress and come back to the right hon . Gentleman . although we have 90 minute , I be conscious of time . this instrument be about make sure that onshore wind project in England that offer capacity of over 100 MW will be eligible to be consent under the regime . it reflect advance in turbine technology over the last decade , with modern turbine be large and more powerful . reintroduce onshore wind into the NSIP regime will provide an appropriate route for nationally significant project seek planning consent where they be of a certain scale and complexity , so that local impact can be carefully balance against national benefit and the need to meet the UK ' s wide decarbonisation goal . this will provide great confidence for developer and grow the pipeline of potential project in England once again . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for give way . he talk about national impact . I wonder what provision there be under this legislation for protect national landscape . many of the windy place in the UK be among our most beautiful , whether it be the hill and mountain of our national park or the down of our national landscape , like the North Wessex down in my constituency , which be an area of outstanding national beauty but be now a national landscape . many of my resident be concern , because the Minister be quite right that the turbine that be now be develop be huge . it be likely to mean that for most of our lifetime we will lose the landscape to these new development . will this system still encompass consideration of protect landscape and make sure that it stay as it be for future generation ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important point . as I have always say from the Dispatch Box in this role , there be a balance to be strike here . we need to build nationally important infrastructure , and that do mean much more onshore wind in England to match the significant amount of onshore wind that have be build in Scotland over the past few year , include not far from my constituency . but the balance must be strike with protect land as well . even if we build the significant number of project that be need , there will still be protection for land in the area he mention . the planning system allow for those consideration to be take into account . the NSIP regime already include nuclear and solar . we be say that the ban on onshore wind introduce by the Conservatives be not a rational decision , so we be bring it back into this process . [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister say that it be absolutely rational , but his party ' s former Energy Minister , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , say that it be " always mad " . I think we should remember that not everybody in the conservative party agree with it , include , I suspect , the shadow Minister himself . let I come to the second part of the statutory instrument : the question of solar . Solar have be subject to a 50 MW NSIP threshold since it be originally set out in the Planning Act 2008 . however , much like onshore wind , solar panel technology have see significant advance in efficiency , enable a great megawatt yield per site . evidence suggest that the 50 MW threshold be now cause a market distortion . with modern technology , mid - sized generating station have a generating capacity great than 50 MW and therefore fall within the NSIP regime . that be likely to be disproportionate to their size , scale and impact . that have result in a large amount of ground - mount solar project enter the planning system artificially cap their capacity just below the 50 MW threshold , lead to a potentially inefficient use of site and grid connection . the approach set out in the order be a continuation of the Minister ' s work to build the clean energy infrastructure that the country need . I agree that the capacity threshold and the reintroduction of onshore wind generation station into the definition of nationally significant infrastructure project will help deliver the triple benefit of decarbonisation , energy security and job creation . however , as the Minister know , Cornwall be a leader in the roll - out of onshore wind and solar energy . do he agree that the order will further opportunity for renewable energy growth across Cornwall that would have be ignore by the flat Earth climate change denier in the conservative party ? I thank my hon . friend for the point , although I be disappointed , because while he normally invite I to visit Cornwall , he do not on this occasion . I will not take it personally . since he be elect to this place , he have do a fantastic job in deliver job in his community on the clean power mission , most recently by look at some of the raw material that be so essential . he have make great progress on that , so I pay tribute to he . my hon . friend be of course right about the conservative party ' s scepticism of a policy that it use to support so wholeheartedly , and one that have deliver economic growth right across the country . it have now turn its face against that ; I be not sure whether that be flat Earth or not . I be sure that the shadow Minister will regale we with his long list of commitment in this space , but it be clear that the drive to net zero be deliver industrial opportunity , job , manufacturing and investment in community that have suffer for so long under economic decline , as well as deliver on our climate ambition and energy security . that be the right path for we to be on . I will return to solar for a second . raise the NSIP threshold to 100 MW for solar will ensure that mid - sized project have access to a more proportionate planning route via local planning authority . it should incentivise project that would otherwise have cap their capacity to develop to a more optimal and efficient scale . we be talk about increase the threshold from 50 MW to 100 MW . I wonder whether the Minister be aware of the average size of NSIP project approve by the Government since last July . if so , why have the threshold be keep artificially low at 100 MW and not raise significantly high ? otherwise , we will see huge number of small project come through and be classify as NSIPs , such as those approve by the Minister so far , rather than large project . the hon . Gentleman have ask I a number of write question on this topic to try to get to the heart of the matter , and he be now test I on the number , which I think we do provide he with in response to one of those write question . since it be not on the tip of my tongue , I will write to he with the answer . on the general point , I do accept what he be say . part of the reason for the instrument be to try to get to a more rational point where we do not have project limit themselves artificially to a level base on a figure . we settle on 100 MW because we think it strike the right balance by allow large project that can deliver the outcome we want in the energy system through the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 , while limit the number of project come into the national planning process . we think that balance be right , but we will continue to look at it . the hon . Gentleman have raise important point with I in in write question that I be happy to discuss with he in more detail . the Government be mindful that mid and large - scale solar and onshore wind project that may be prepare to enter the planning system might have already invest and undertake preparatory step with the expectation of enter a particular planning regime . therefore , change the NSIP criterion at short notice could result in project enter into a different regime from that which they expect , which could increase cost for developer and cause delay . therefore , the instrument before we also make transitional provision for onshore wind and solar project that be already in the planning process when the order come into force . the provision will therefore ensure that project already progress under one regime will not be require to move into a different one . in conclusion , through consultation , we seek view and support evidence on reintroduce onshore wind into the NSIP regime . we receive a range of response from different group of people . most agree with our approach and the majority agree with the 100 MW threshold . indeed , although we initially consult on the idea of a high threshold of 150 MW , base on the analysis of those consultation response , we conclude that a 100 MW threshold would be more appropriate and would reflect modern technology . this instrument be another important step forward in deliver our clean power mission , support the deployment of onshore wind and solar and establish the UK as a clean energy superpower . it support all our work as a Government on deliver an effective planning system — one that ensure that application be process efficiently through an appropriate regime and that avoid distortionary effect on deployment . the measure ultimately aim to support our future energy security and resilience , alongside our 2030 goal and wide decarbonisation target . I commend the order to the House . I call the shadow Minister . in just four short week , people across England will go to the poll to determine the future of their local community . at that same time , the Labour party seek to impose on those very same community vast new energy infrastructure : huge solar farm and wind turbine with blade height of 180 metre to 200 metre , destroy swathe of England ' s green and pleasant land and go against the wish of local people . as ever , only the Conservative party be stand up for those community , and only the conservative party believe that people in those community should have a say over their local area . labour would silence those community , choose to impose rather than to seek consent . in four week ' time , voter across this country will have that choice before they . the order provide a route to approval for onshore wind that entirely bypass the consent of local community and empower the zealotry of the Secretary of State to impose infrastructure irrespective of the concern of local people . in my constituency of Gordon and Buchan , the Suie and Correen hill be subject to a planning application for a new onshore wind farm . there be also concern that , because of that , there will be new pop - up infrastructure next to it , whether substation or battery and so on . one project lead to another and then to another — it overtake local community , it mean that local landscape and local business change , and there be an impact on farming , too . do my hon . friend agree that such project can not be look at in isolation ? this have to be about their holistic impact across the board , not just about the individual scheme , one at a time . I could not agree more with my hon . friend , live , as we do , in the north - east of Scotland and see around we the huge increase in energy infrastructure plan for rural community over the next few year — it be quite daunting . it be therefore no surprise that there have be such vociferous campaigning against the plan , whether those for wind turbine , pylon , energy substation or battery storage facility , all of which be in the pipeline for our community . that be why there be such a pushback there and also such concern across many of the community that will be affect by the change in England over the next few year . that be why we oppose the SI before we . in their first week in office , the Government approve three solar farm across Lincolnshire , Cambridgeshire and Rutland , against the wish of the local community . today , the Minister seek to go far still . in increase the threshold for solar , he push for the development of giant solar farm . to be eligible for sign - off by the Secretary of State , solar farm have to be 100 MW in capacity . currently , the large — Shotwick solar park in Flintshire — be 72 MW . the change signal a free - for - all for giant - scale solar , and the instrument bring onshore wind over a 100 MW capacity into the NSIP scope . in Lancashire , that mean Scout Moor II be in the Secretary of State ' s gift to approve . calderdale wind farm , with 65 turbine cover 9 square mile , be plan for Yorkshire and will be build on grouse moorland and farmland . in Lincolnshire ' s prime agricultural land , the breadbasket of England , this mean a potential onslaught of proposal , despite the county council ' s opposition to large - scale plan . I know how much this mean to local community — my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) have also make this point . I represent a constituency that be be subject to vast swathe of energy infrastructure , and over the next few year approval will be seek for a whole host of new plan that will indelibly change a landscape that people be proud and happy to live in right now . do my hon . friend agree that , rather than make it easy for large - scale solar and onshore wind application , the Government should be focus on " fabric first " and increase the energy efficiency of our housing stock , thereby reduce energy demand rather than destroy our countryside ? absolutely . I would be keen to see exactly what the Government be propose on that front . their plan , which be strip away the right of local community , be do great damage to community across this country with shocking disregard — if the shadow Minister be so confident about conservative party policy , will he come back to the House after 1 May and tell we how the Conservatives have perform in those local election ? I would be delighted to come back and compare note on how our respective party have perform in the local election on 1 May . the choice before the people of England who be go to the poll on 1 May be quite clear . where they have a conservative local authority , they get well service and well value for money , as be be demonstrate right now by the comparison between Birmingham and Bromsgrove . there could not be a well illustration of the difference between conservative party local delivery and Labour party failure . that be what be on the ballot paper on 1 May , and I will debate the argument around that with the hon . member any day of the week . the Labour Government have make no secret of their plan to double onshore wind and treble solar , to be achieve by empower themselves while disenfranchise local community . in Lincolnshire , Lancashire and Yorkshire , they be silence local opposition . they risk alienate the british public in their costly rush to a renewable - base system without consultation and with no consent . the race to Clean Power 2030 be be do at the expense of all else . it be be do at the expense of our energy security , our national security and our standard on ethical supply chain . just last week in this very House , Labour whip its mps to vote in favour of allow Great British Energy to invest in supply chain despite evidence of modern slavery — the Labour party ! the week before , the Secretary of State be collaborate with the People ' s Republic of China , sacrifice our national security and tacitly admit that his wrong - head target be unachievable without import make with coal power . perhaps the Government receive advice on how to achieve community consent from President Xi Jinping . I understand that this particular sector be out of fashion with the Government , but one of the other sacrifice be likely to involve Scotland ' s , and indeed England ' s , precious raptor population . raptor often suffer as a result of high - density wind farm and be effectively mince as they fly through the air . in California and elsewhere , we see high number of bird death , particularly bird of prey . would the Government not be well off , in my hon . friend ' s opinion , put their time and investment into low - orbit solar , in which the UK , along with Japan , lead the world ? I bow to my right hon . friend ' s expertise on raptor and on british bird life in general . that sound like an entirely sensible suggestion . the Minister be take note , and I very much hope that he will take that suggestion back to the Department in which he be lucky to serve . the Minister have tell we that onshore renewable infrastructure can unlock low bill and that it be the cheap energy source , but that be not the case . we have the second high on - stream renewable in Europe , yet the UK ' s domestic energy bill be among the high in Europe . we also know from the Office for Budget Responsibility that the cost to business and household of subsidise renewable will increase from £ 12 billion to £ 19 billion by 2030 . that be the true cost of the Government ' s rush to net zero . we be very proud of what we achieve during our year in government , build the first and fifth large offshore wind farm in the world , which be generate power for Great Britain right now , and halve our emission while grow the economy fast than any other develop economy . but this Government need to be honest with the british people about the cost of their arbitrary target . the Labour party make no attempt to account for the whole - system cost associate with the renewable - dominate system . in fact , the Secretary of State cancel the analysis commission by his predecessor . he do not want to know how much it cost , and it be clear that the Government do not want to know . it be wilful ignorance drive purely by ideology . at the election , the Labour party promise we £ 300 off energy bill . yesterday we see the price cap and bill go up . on the Opposition side of the House , we stand with community , seek to empower local people and understand their concern . we oppose this instrument , which enable the Secretary of State to continue to ride roughshod over the concern of local community in vain pursuit of the Government ' s own legacy . will the Minister recommission the whole - system cost analysis that his government scrap on day one , and look at the fact ? can he tell we the cost of run the gas - fire power station fleet for 5 % of our power , in addition to the rise curtailment cost , pay to turn off the grow number of wind turbine ? can he confirm that his propose community benefit package be significantly low than the scheme consider by the previous Government ? what be his message to the resident of Lincolnshire , Lancashire , Yorkshire , Cambridgeshire , Buckinghamshire and elsewhere , as they make their decision on 1 May ? rise — Order . I will now announce the result of today ' s deferred Division on the draft Ecodesign for Energy - relate Products and Energy Information ( Amendment ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2025 . the Ayes be 349 and the Noes be 14 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] we have four more speech . I thank the Minister for expedite this important legislation to transform the energy landscape in the UK . I have long campaign for renewable energy measure to reduce our reliance on fossil fuel and to produce green power of our own . the UK have suffer significantly , like many other country , from the cost of oil and gas skyrocketing due to the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine . the Conservatives do nothing to help the situation . they abandon much of the country ' s energy storage , leave we reliant on fossil fuel pump in under the channel , and do not take energy security seriously . they far compound the situation by scrap their net zero target and champion dirty , pollute gas and oil . last year , the UK hit a historic milestone , with 42 % of energy come from renewable source , include 31 % be generate by wind power . as energy bill rise yet again , it be clear that we need to break the shackle that hold we hostage to energy company charge extortionate rate just to keep the light on . british people simply can not afford for the status quo to continue , financially and environmentally . I be proud that this Government be lead the way by set up great British Energy to give we energy independence , security and longevity , but that need to be back up by plan infrastructure change that support our aim . I understand concern that our countryside and agricultural land could be at risk from the development of renewable power source and upgrade the grid , but I be confident that this Government will ensure that infrastructure be always in the right place and do in the right way . create the infrastructure be not the end of the story . due to the lack of energy storage and grid capacity , around 8 . 3 terawatt - hour — about 10 % of the wind power — be effectively lose . even though National Grid be work at speed to upgrade the network to ensure that not a single watt - hour be lose , we need to do more . two year ago , my husband and I retrofit and upgrade our home by remove the gas , instal solar panel and an air - source heat pump , and fully insulate externally . but we quickly realise the battery be not big enough to store all the energy we be produce , and despite be able to sell some of it back to the grid , it would have be well to be able to store more of it for a rainy — or rather , snowy and icy — day . scale that up , and it be the same for the whole country . we need to harness that additional energy to help to reduce the need for fossil fuel . I hope this change will filter down into the house building industry . it have long be a bugbear of mine that developer be only require to install an electric vehicle charge point on new build home . we need to mandate solar panel on every roof and proper insulation , so that heat do not escape through the wall , and ensure that home across the UK be fit for the future . I also take this opportunity to welcome the fund make available by West Midlands Mayor Richard Parker to help small business to make the transition to renewable energy . small and medium - sized enterprise have be hit hard by energy price rise , and uncap tariff have cause bill to spiral to unsustainable level . to drive growth , we need energy security to make bill affordable for resident and business alike . break down the barrier to tackle climate change and the energy crisis will help we to meet the Government ' s ambitious target for energy storage and grid reinforcement , but we must move at pace to match the growth of renewable generation . streamline planning process and investment in energy storage will help our country to transition to a low - cost , green and clean power grid by 2030 . we be live in the shadow of the former Conservative Government ' s failure to invest in renewable energy and insulate our home . those failure have contribute directly to an energy crisis that have leave household struggle with soar bill and business face crippling cost . the majority of people poll in this country want to see more action on climate change and save our planet , not less . the Liberal Democrats be unwavere champion of renewable energy . now more than ever , we need to strengthen our home - grow energy security and stop our dependency on despot such as Putin . we welcome the lifting of the effective moratorium on onshore wind , which we have long call for . that be an extremely short - sighted and irresponsible conservative policy . the planning change that they make in 2015 and 2016 introduce a de facto ban in England , result in a loss to our manufacturing and local economy . the project pipeline for onshore wind shrink by over 90 % , and less than 40 MW be consent to and become operational in the intervene period . the supply chain be important for the roll - out of onshore and offshore wind , and the oil and gas sector supply chain will be crucial , but it be be wear away by the rush to end our use of North sea oil and gas . do the hon . Member agree that preserve that supply chain , and ensure a manage transition from North sea oil and gas , will be vital to any roll - out of onshore and offshore wind ? we be absolutely and critically supportive of a just transition in the North sea , to move off fossil fuel alongside and parallel to our increase use of renewable energy . it be therefore right to reintroduce onshore wind into the nationally significant investment regime , ensure that there be a level playing field with other generate technology such as solar , offshore wind and nuclear , which be already assess under that regime . the motion also raise the threshold for solar project deem nationally significant from 50 MW to 100 MW . in one way , that increase threshold will help to prevent poor land use , give that the previous threshold incentivise developer to put in an artificial cap of 49 . 9 MW , which lead to 40 % of proposal come in at that level . increase the threshold in local planning decision also mean that biodiversity net gain will be require of solar farm , ensure that , where they be approve , they be nature - friendly . it will also give local voice a great say in determine the location and suitability of large - scale solar project up to 100 MW — that be important . however , local decision make about large - scale solar can not happen in a vacuum . we need a join - up approach that balance the need for food security , energy infrastructure , new home and nature recovery . that be why we welcome the Government ' s launch of consultation on both the land use framework and the strategic spatial energy plan , which together should determine the most strategic energy mix , how much solar we need , at what scale and where good to locate it across the country . the hon . member be , like I , a Cambridgeshire MP . Cambridgeshire have already have Sunnica , one of the large solar farm in the country at 2 , 400 acre , approve . we have another 1 , 900 acre project in my constituency , as she well know , and other be in the planning process . do she agree that Cambridgeshire resident should not have to bear the brunt of these project ? I know that she be a staunch advocate for the move towards solar , but would she , like I , stand up for her resident if someone be look to build a nationally significant infrastructure project of that scale in her constituency ? that be exactly the point I be make . I have be talk with my constituent , particularly about the controversial new large - scale Kingsway solar farm in my constituency . we need a land use framework and a strategic spatial energy plan that tell we and inform local planning and decision making about the scale of solar energy that we need across the whole country , where it be well locate , where it can fit in and feed in , and the energy mix . we need to consider that mix and the balance of food security , energy infrastructure , home and nature recovery . equally , we need genuinely significant community benefit scheme apply to large - scale generation scheme , similar to the community benefit approach apply in Scotland . we want to ensure that all national infrastructure project and major energy generation infrastructure — not just transmission — provide minimum level of community benefit , invest at ward and parish level into community benefit fund and determine by the local community most affected . we must take community with we and show that they be part of the energy transition , and that it be do with they , not to they . we have deep reservation about the Government ' s approach overall to nationally significant infrastructure project in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which appear to be a power - grab , strip away local voice and let developer off the hook for their impact on nature and wildlife . nature be not a blocker ; it be an enabler of good growth and wellbeing , and while we climate - proof our energy system , we must also ensure that nature be part of future - proof our economy . we will always speak up for a climate and nature combine approach . although we be supportive of the motion ' s ambition to streamline planning for major project such as onshore wind , we register our concern about the Government ' s broad change to NSIPs and planning , include the exemption of category 3 person from compulsory purchase consultation , and the implementation of several Henry VIII clause that hand sweep power to the Secretary of State and undermine local government and local voice . it be entirely possible to accelerate renewable energy deployment and uphold the community voice in planning decision while protect nature , and that be what we need to see . I thank the Minister for explain why this motion be so important , and how it will unblock the system and unlock potential . the move to clean home - grow energy demand nationwide delivery of our critical infrastructure , yet the current planning system be hold that back . without home - grow energy we will not have control over energy price in the UK , and we need the infrastructure to deliver that . there will always be a degree of opposition to the development of wind farm — that be democracy — but it be how we respond to local concern that make a difference . bury our head in the sand , as the Conservatives choose to do for 14 year , be simply not an option . it be important to share some experience of the development of wind farm from my constituency , and to be clear that Scotland be on a different track , as wind farm development fall under national planning framework 4 . I want to share two lesson from my constituency . People across the country understand and see the natural benefit that the infrastructure cover by motion will unblock . those include local employment opportunity through construction and maintenance , a boost to the local economy , increase local spending and , of course , a legacy of endless clean energy . however , experience from my area show that those natural benefit should be top up by community benefit . Lesson no . 1 be that there be a need for community benefit and a fair and transparent model of distribute they . the Nine Community Council Group in my constituency represent nine Cumnock and Doon Valley community , which manage and distribute community benefit from multiple wind farm development across the area . they embody a collaborative community approach to wind farm benefit , and that must be the way forward for the country . Lesson no . 2 be to consider the impact of build this crucial infrastructure on other crucial infrastructure , such as road . by their very nature , wind farm be often in rural area where transport link be already under - resource . in rural area people use road more to go to work , to shop , and for basic living . build wind farm be a great boost to the local economy , but it can take its toll on the road . that mean that we need to do more to support and invest in maintain good road link in those community . those lesson be about take people with we when it come to the transition to clean energy . ayrshire ' s story be about make the move from coalfield to clean field . it be one to be replicate , but we must ensure that our community be onside in the process . I reiterate my opposition to the measure that this Government wish to impose . the slew of nationally significant infrastructure project approve by this government since July be the vanguard of many more . in Huntington , the propose East Park solar farm be set to be big than Gatwick airport , at 1 , 900 acre span 6 mile . nearly 75 % of the agricultural land involve be grade as our good and most versatile land . though the Energy Minister have previously state to I that " no nationally significant infrastructure project have be consent which will use great than 50 % good and most versatile agricultural land " , this Government ' s track record and ideological zealotry on this point strongly indicate that there be no upper limit on the quantity of agricultural land they be willing to develop . last week , during consideration of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , the Deputy Prime Minister say that she would protect our high - quality agricultural land . I would be interested to hear from the Government how exactly they plan to do that , give their track record of build on it . I regularly speak to constituent who feel voiceless and ignore . the Secretary of State have show himself to prioritise ideology over listen to valid concern , let alone pragmatic detail . the Government be willing to move the goalpost to reach their aim , and it be my constituent who be pay the price without be hear . they be receive nothing in the way of direct compensation , and no firm commitment to cheap energy bill or to ensure that community benefit fund appropriately compensate local community . clause 5 of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill even remove the requirement to consult category 3 people who can make a claim under the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 . instead , they will be inform that their land will be take only at the acceptance stage . my online petition of resident in the village surround the solar farm receive more than 1 , 100 signature . that be the only time those resident feel they have be able to make their voice hear . I urge the Government to listen to these people and thousand of other like they across our rural heartland . the Government take pride in announce with this statutory instrument that the solar NSIP threshold have be raise from 50 MW to 100 MW . the average megawatt output of a solar farm application in 2010 be 3 . 8 MW . the average solar NSIP application approve since this government come to power be 488 MW , to refer to my previous question to the Minister . by keep the threshold artificially low , the Government open the door to huge number of solar farm become nsip by the back door . I would welcome a review on set that NSIP threshold at a much high level , give the scale of current nationally significant infrastructure project . I have previously ask the Minister about the quality of photovoltaic panel and the fact that they will create more and more energy go forwards . we must also look at where the panel will be source . the Energy Minister have previously confirm to I that the Government be " determined to eradicate force labour in global supply chain , include in the manufacture of solar panel " , yet they whip Government Members against a conservative motion that would have prevent great British Energy from buy solar panel when there be evidence of modern slavery in the supply process . the Government be more interested in score political point than in take the step to eradicate force labour . the Government have repeatedly demonstrate that they be prepared to ride roughshod over local wish in pursuit of their ideological goal . with their manipulation of the system to force through ten of thousand of acre of solar panel , much of they on our good and most versatile agricultural land , and by make roll change to national policy statement while keep the solar NSIP threshold artificially low , the Government show once again their contempt for our embattle rural community . as well as the contempt be show for local community and consultation , do my hon . friend lament the lack of imagination ? there be plenty of place where many people would welcome solar farm , such as on motorway and railway embankment . they could easily be delineate for such development , and it would not necessarily impact on our landscape . there be also the continue lack of any compulsion for the inclusion of solar on warehouse roof . we could probably create exactly the same amount of power as his constituency be likely to create by put solar panel on the roof of every warehouse in Park Royal to the west of London . again and again , we look to virgin land first , rather than be imaginative about well solution . my right hon . friend make an excellent point , with which I wholeheartedly agree . the Government have a target of building 1 . 5 million — sorry , that be downgrade in the spring statement to 1 . 3 million — new home . it would be sensible for they to implement some sort of legislation that would mean that those 1 . 3 million new home have solar panel on their roof . I urge the Minister to ask what assessment have be do on how much energy could be generate be we to do that at full scale instead of build solar farm on our good rural heartland . will the hon . member support the private Member ' s Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , aptly name the sunshine Bill , which would make solar panel mandatory on the roof of all new home ? I will leave my decision until we have a vote on that Bill , but I will look at it in more detail . with your leave , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will respond briefly to some of the point raise in the debate , but I will not detain the House long , as I know we be keen to progress through the Order Paper . I thank hon . member for their contribution to this wide - range debate . the regulation lift the nonsensical ban on onshore wind in England that the Conservatives drive through . for 10 year , that ban have hold back energy , security and economic development opportunity across the country . the measure before we come to a rational position on solar in the planning system . I will respond briefly to the point raise about nature and other issue . the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) put it particularly well : the public want we to take action on the climate crisis . the conservative party might want to pretend that that do not exist any more , but it do . the great threat to nature in this country be climate change . we will tackle that , but in do so , we will deliver energy security . on the point make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , let I say that neither of we scottish MPs will have a vote in the election in four week ' time , but people will have the choice between the conservative party , which have still not own up to any of the mistake that it make in 14 year , and the party that be try to fix the mess . they can choose between a party that be move forward to deliver economic growth and energy security , and a party that would rather hold we back and keep we on the rollercoaster of volatile fossil fuel . today ' s vote be a chance for we to demonstrate that we want that economic opportunity , and want to deliver energy security and climate leadership . I urge hon . member on all side of the House to support we today . question put . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Tom Hayes Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Keir Mather Gerald Jones Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright James Wild Ben Obese - Jecty the House divide : Ayes 307 , Noes 100 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that the draft Infrastructure Planning ( Onshore Wind and Solar Generation ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 10 March , be approve . drive licence : Zero Emission Vehicles I beg to move , that the draft Motor Vehicles ( Driving Licences ) ( amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 14 March , be approve . the aim of the regulation be to support the transition to zero emission vehicle , to reduce the regulatory burden on business , and to drive economic growth on our journey to become a clean energy superpower . business and family be choose to make the switch to clean , green vehicle that be cheap to run and reduce noise and air pollution on our street . the UK be the large electric car market in Europe in 2024 , and so far this year demand be up 42 % , accord to industry figure . however , zero emission vehicle can be heavy than equivalent petrol and diesel vehicle because of the weight of their battery or power train , which can push they into a high driving licence category than their petrol or diesel equivalent . regulation to partially solve the problem be pass in 2018 , allow category b licence holder to drive alternatively fuel vehicle weigh up to 4 . 25 tonne if they fulfil additional requirement , include receive five hour of additional training from an accredited instructor , drive only for the purpose of transport good , and have no ability to tow . however , follow the rapid growth of zero emission technology since 2018 , the exist regulation represent an unnecessary barrier to switch to zero emission vehicle . the cost of the training , and of take driver off the road to complete it , can be prohibitive and time - consume for business . these regulation will therefore enable the holder of a standard category b licence to drive a fully electric or hydrogen - power vehicle up to a maximum weight of 4 . 25 tonne without those additional requirement . exist category b rule on age and passenger number will apply . category b licence holder can also usually drive minibus weigh up to 3 . 5 tonne if they fulfil additional requirement , include the requirement for the driver to be over the age of 21 . the regulation apply the same additional requirement to zero emission minibus weigh up to 4 . 25 tonne . they also allow zero emission vehicle weigh up to 4 . 25 tonne to tow a trailer , just as rule permit their petrol and diesel counterpart to , provide that the total combine vehicle and trailer weight do not exceed 7 tonne . it be important that people with disability should have equitable drive licence flexibility . to ensure that they be not exclude from the benefit of these regulation , an eligible zero emission vehicle may weigh up to 5 tonne if it be fit with specialist equipment for the carriage of disabled passenger . that additional weight allowance also apply to minibus . could the Minister elaborate on the type of vehicle that will be cover by the provision for additional weight for disabled user ? the provision apply to electric vehicle , not to gas or synthetically fuelled vehicle . the fuel type in scope of these regulation be zero emission , rather than alternative fuel . the only vehicle not cover by these regulation , but that be in scope of the old one , be gas - power vehicle . the Government estimate that there be few than 30 on the road today , and their technology do not require an additional weight allowance . a public consultation on these proposal be hold in 2022 and receive 89 response , which be largely supportive of the change , though some concern be raise about safety . follow a detailed analysis , the Government be confident that these regulation pose an extremely low risk to road safety . between 2020 and 2023 , there be a total of nine collision involve such vehicle , and six of they be minor collision . however , we will closely monitor incident datum as it become available , to protect the safety of all road user . in the unlikely event that a concern trend emerge , swift action will be take to protect the public . the Department will publish detailed safety guidance , which we be work with industry to disseminate . in closing , these regulation be a common - sense measure to equalise the drive licence rule for zero - emission vehicle and their petrol and diesel counterpart . I commend this statutory instrument to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , particularly as it relate to the use of synthetic fuel donate for my summer surgery tour last August . my concern about this statutory instrument , unlike my concern about other recent piece of parliamentary business , be narrow , which mean — this will be a relief to member from across the House , I have no doubt — that my remark will be brief . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I have never have such a big cheer . I thank the Government for bring forward sensible reform , which will decrease the regulatory burden and provide more flexibility for category b licence holder . many of the reform be sensible step that be widely support in the consultation during the last Parliament . it be unfortunate , but unsurprising , that the Government ' s so - call plan for change do not involve scrap the limitation in this statutory instrument . narrow the scope of eligible vehicle from alternatively fuel vehicle to zero emission vehicle be a mistake that can not be ignore . as we transition to new technology , we as a country must be less prescriptive . too often , government want to tell industry and innovator what to do , and I be afraid that the restrictive nature of this measure risk hamper our country ' s attempt to reduce emission . let I be clear : my concern be not a judgment on whether the Government be right or wrong to suggest that zero emission vehicle will be most effective . the issue be rather that limit the measure ' s scope to a small subset of non - petrol and non - diesel fuel make they far too narrow . do my hon . friend share my concern that the regulation could be of serious detriment to the UK ' s synthetic biology research community ? significant effort be go into the creation of engineer bug that can turn renewable matter , such as sugar cane , into fuel for internal combustion engine . in a circular economy , that would represent a completely renewable source of energy that would be carbon neutral throughout its entire life cycle . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for that point , which I have be make for many year . I certainly do so during my time on the Transport Committee in the previous Parliament , and outside this place , as I have engage with the classic car sector and all part of the industry . he be right that there be a big innovative drive for sustainable fuel , if I can call they that . some of they derive from feedstock , other from waste matter , and they work in the internal combustion engine that we already have — in jet engine as well as motor vehicle engine . there be also entirely man - make synthetic fuel that require no such feedstock . they do not require food to be grow in order to be burn . there be innovator on that in this country and all over the world . for example , Zero Petroleum , just next door to my constituency — just over the Oxfordshire border at Bicester Heritage — have develop a fuel that work in every jet engine and every internal combustion engine that we enjoy today . it be entirely man - make ; it be literally make out of air and water . it be a mixture of green hydrogen with atmospheric carbon capture . however , the ZEV mandate and the approach that the Government be take in this statutory instrument rule that technology out of order , because there be still carbon at the tailpipe . the regulation ignore the fact that the carbon at the tailpipe be the same volume of carbon that be capture out of the atmosphere to make the next lot of fuel . in fact , a whole - system analysis show that technology to be carbon - neutral — one volume of carbon be in a perpetual cycle . however , no matter how much Ministers and the Government claim to be technologically neutral , the test at the tailpipe , and the test in this statutory instrument , which explicitly refer to zero emission vehicle , rather than alternatively fuelled vehicle , do in fact mean that the Government pick a technological winner at every step , rather than let our great innovator innovate . I be interested to hear about the hon . Gentleman ' s knowledge and experience of alternative fuel . he perhaps understand this statutory instrument well than I do , but I understand that it be about the weight of vehicle , and that an alternative fuel go through the internal combustion engine do not result in additional weight . will any of the technology that he be describe result in additional weight , and might they therefore fall foul of the limit in the regulation ? the hon . Gentleman be right that this be fundamentally about weight , but on the point about synthetic fuel , which my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) draw I on to a moment ago — I rarely need ask twice , give the number of year I have spend talk about this — it be true that there would not be an addition of weight . however , there would be for some alternatively fuelled system . for example , in the case of hydrogen , the fuel tank have to be much more robust . they certainly be in a hydrogen combustion vehicle , of which there be very few . as far as I understand it , it be only JCB that have develop the technology for a construction plant , but there could be an application to road vehicle in the future . hydrogen run at about 700 bar in the fuel tank , so we obviously would not put it in an exist car ' s fuel tank ; it simply could not take the pressure . there would be weight implication for such a system . it be interesting , when sit in the Chamber , to hear colleague ' expertise on subject that we do not know they have expertise in . I wish to draw my hon . friend back to a slightly different subject , which he be begin to touch on . electric vehicle , which of course have battery , tend to be far heavy than equivalent vehicle with an internal combustion engine . some of the vehicle combination that the Minister talk about — for example , he mention a vehicle and a trailer not exceed 7 tonne gross vehicle weight — would vary in weight depend on whether the car or van be electric . that might affect a person ' s decision to change from a vehicle with an internal combustion engine to an electric vehicle . my hon . friend make an accurate point . in some way , the statutory instrument seek to address that point . however , he be right that when real people out there in the country make choice on their vehicle , they will make practical decision such as the one outline by my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , rather than look at some of the other thing the Government from time to time wish they be think about when they make those choice . to make rapid progress , Madam Deputy Speaker , when the consultation be conduct , 25 % of respondent — I accept that that be only a quarter — favour retain alternatively fuel vehicle on the basis of the extra flexibility offer by the current alternative fuel definition , particularly for hard - to - transition use case . that be a small subset , but we risk limit the capability of industry and technology if we close down the possibility of innovation . there may be occasion when the additional weight would be beneficial to those alternative fuel . however , without flexibility we will not know the answer . those 25 % will have to maintain the status quo . however , we believe we must let the technology decide , not the Government , to ensure that those hard use case be not abandon . for those who may not be aware , the Government have already withdraw this SI to correct a drafting error . all the opposition be ask be for they to do exactly the same : amend the error , bring back the change , and allow the reduction in regulation without the restriction on alternative fuel . that be not only the right approach , but the fair one . I rise to make one very brief point . the regulation amend the Motor Vehicles ( Driving Licences ) Regulations 1999 . to get a drive licence , one have to pass a driving test . I have have lot of complaint from constituent , as I be sure have many right hon . and hon . member , about the increase wait time for drive test . I have have extensive correspondence with Loveday Ryder , the chief executive of the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency , but some of the reply have be very unsatisfactory . will the Minister go back to the Department and look at what we can do to speed up drive test , in particular by combat the bot that capture the test and sell they on for profit ? we be pleased that the provision maintain the ability of those with category b drive licence to drive zero emission vehicle up to certain weight threshold . as have be note , the SI also reduce the scope of eligible vehicle , from alternatively fuel to zero emission . alternatively fuel vehicle produce less carbon dioxide than petrol and diesel vehicle , but they still produce CO2 . as the vehicle do not , therefore , meet the cross - party consensus that all new car and van should be zero emission by 2035 , we support the restriction to zero emission vehicle . however , we again remind the Government that more need to be do to ensure that EV charging infrastructure be in place . it be no good for people to be able to drive electric vehicle if they be unable to charge they . in addition to improve our ev charging infrastructure , we support other incentive such as restore the plug - in grant . however , at this point we need convincing — not that we might not be convince — that remove the five - hour training requirement , which be also contain within the SI , be a good idea . incentive should not come at the cost of reduce safety and if a five - hour training requirement be think necessary in 1999 , I would like the Minister to explain why it be no long require . with the leave of the House , I will respond briefly to the point that have be raise . I thank hon . member for their consideration . the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) say that he would be brief and get a cheer , but then go on for just a little while to talk about his favourite subject of synthetically fuelled car . we know he have one . that be brief ! [ laughter . ] I think Churchill famously say from this Dispatch Box that a fanatic be someone who can not change their mind and will not change the subject . I say that gently — [ Laughter . ] I really be be gentle there . the intention of the SI be to support the transition to zero emission vehicle . the drive licence flexibility be therefore design to account for the additional weight of heavy battery in fully electric vehicle and some implementation of hydrogen fuel cell technology . vehicle power by natural gas or biogas be not net zero . I get what the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire be say about the single life cycle of the carbon , but they be not subject to the standard category b licence requirement , mean that they can be drive if they weigh up to 3 . 5 tonne . the Government estimate that there be currently few than 30 such vehicle on the road . E - fuel and synthetic fuel — which I know be the hon . Gentleman ' s area of expertise and interest — be not disadvantage by the standard category b requirement , which apply to petrol and diesel vehicle , and be therefore not include in the SI . as I have say , synthetic fuel be already treat no differently in the drive licence regulation to their petrol or diesel counterpart , and do not require the additional weight to achieve payload parity . the instrument seek only to achieve parity with zero emission vehicle . I be not sure about the issue with drive licence raise by the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , who be no long in his place . I will undertake to write to he . in closing , this instrument , while technical in nature , represent a common - sense step that will support industry to make the switch to zero emission and decarbonise our road transport as we make progress to net zero . it will cut transport cost for business , reduce our greenhouse gas emission and far accelerate our progress to become the clean energy superpower that we so hope to be . I trust that the House have find this debate informative and will join I in support the legislation . I commend the regulation to the House . question put . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Tom Hayes Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Keir Mather Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Ben Obese - Jecty Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 304 , Noes 101 . question accordingly agree to . Whiplash Injury Compensation I beg to move , that the draft Whiplash Injury ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 20 March , be approve . this draft instrument amend the fix tariff for whiplash compensation set by the Whiplash Injury Regulations 2021 by apply an inflationary uplift to the tariff value . in do so , the amendment give effect to recommendation make by the Lord Chancellor on 21 November 2024 follow the completion of her statutory review of the 2021 regulation . by adjust the whiplash tariff value to account for inflation , the Government will ensure that claimant can continue to receive proportionate compensation until the next review in 2027 . the whiplash reform programme change the way claimant be award damage for low - value whiplash injury follow road traffic accident . the aim of the reform be to ensure an efficient , proportionate and reliable system for both claimant and defendant involve in road traffic accident - relate whiplash claim . at their core , the measure aim to reduce the number and cost of whiplash injury and deliver saving to consumer via reduce motor insurance premium . element of the reform programme be deliver by the Civil Liability Act 2018 , which introduce several important change to the civil claim process . alongside measure that introduce a legal definition of what constitute a whiplash injury and ban the settling of such claim without medical evidence , the 2018 Act empower the Lord Chancellor to set a fix tariff of damage for road traffic accident - relate whiplash injury last up to two year . the 2018 Act measure be support by additional secondary legislative change to increase the small claim track for road traffic - relate personal injury claim from £ 1 , 000 to £ 5 , 000 , and the introduction of a new pre - action protocol for personal injury claim below the small claim limit in road traffic accident . at the same time , the insurance industry - own and develop Official Injury Claim portal be launch to assist claimant affect by the reform . the first whiplash tariff be set by the Whiplash Injury Regulations 2021 , which come into force on 31 May 2021 . the 2018 Act require the Lord Chancellor to review the 2021 regulation , and thereby the whiplash tariff , within three year of its implementation and every three year thereafter . in fulfilment of that statutory obligation , the first review of the whiplash tariff be complete on 22 May 2024 and the Lord Chancellor publish her report of the statutory review on 21 November 2024 . upon review the 2021 regulation , the Lord Chancellor conclude that the structure and component part of the whiplash tariff be effective . however , she recommend that the tariff amount be uprated to account for consumer price index inflation between 2021 and 2024 , and to incorporate a three - year buffer to account for expected inflation until 2027 . she do not consider that any other change to the 2021 regulation be necessary . in reach her conclusion and recommendation , the Lord Chancellor take into consideration relevant industry and court datum , as well as information from a Ministry of Justice call for evidence , which run from 6 February to 2 April 2024 . in accordance with the review , this statutory instrument increase the whiplash tariff damage value and , subject to approval by both Houses , the new tariff will apply to all road traffic accident - relate personal injury claim in England and Wales from 31 May 2025 . I believe that the House will find it helpful if I provide some additional explanation of the increase that will be apply to the whiplash tariff . by way of background , I should say that the whiplash tariff operate via a rise scale of fix compensation payment determine by injury duration , up to a maximum of two year . the payment in the original whiplash tariff set in 2021 range from £ 240 for whiplash injury last three month or less to £ 4 , 215 for whiplash injury last between 18 and 24 month . there be a separate , slightly high , tariff for case where any minor psychological injury , such as low - level travel anxiety , be incur at the same time as the whiplash injury . claim for whiplash injury that last long than two year fall outside the fix tariff . when the tariff be first implement in 2021 , the amount be set to include a three - year buffer . the buffer be design to account for expected inflation , accord to the available forecast at that time , and to ensure that claimant be not under - compensate in the year between the tariff ' s implementation and the first statutory review . in review the 2021 regulation , the Lord Chancellor recognise the impact of inflation on the whiplash tariff amount , note that inflation over the first three - year period run at a high than expect rate , and , as most respondent to the 2024 call for evidence have note , the real value of the tariff have fall . in the light of this , she conclude that the tariff should be uprate by actual inflation between 2021 and 2024 , and should again include a buffer to account for the expected inflation until the next review in 2027 . the whiplash tariff will therefore be increase by around 15 % for claim arise from road traffic accident occur on or after 31 May 2025 . as I have mention , this increase have be calculate use the consumer price index inflationary measure . after careful consideration of the available datum and evidence , the Lord Chancellor determine that CPI remain the most appropriate measure for uprate the tariff amount by inflation . in contrast , she consider that the alternative retail price index measure , if apply , would likely overstate inflation . it be worth note that the use of CPI be in line with common practice across Government , as recommend by the Office for National Statistics . in accounting for inflation , the Lord Chancellor also decide that the whiplash tariff should continue to be future - proof by apply a CPI round over three year from 2024 to 2027 . this approach be consistent with the method use to protect claimant from additional inflationary impact when the first whiplash tariff be set in 2021 . while this three - year buffer could lead to some over - compensation in the short term , not implement it would allow the real value of claimant ’ damage to decrease and risk significant under - compensation in the long term . therefore , this buffer protect access to justice and minimise the risk of claimant be under - compensate in the year lead up to 2027 . I would , though , like to acknowledge that some respondent to the call for evidence express concern that the buffer would artificially increase the amount of compensation available and potentially undermine cost saving . however , the difference in the tariff level use the buffer be not substantial enough to significantly impact on saving . the tariff amount be only be adjust to account for inflation and , as such , it be our view that this do not represent a real - term increase in claim value . conversely , I be aware that other stakeholder suggest that the whiplash tariff should either be subject to an annual review or be index - link to inflation to ensure annual increase . as the Lord Chancellor make clear in her report , these argument be not compelling . a three - year review period , as anticipate by the 2018 Act , strike the right balance between adequately compensate claimant and maintain a stable system that be as simple to understand and administer as possible . it be also worth note that the recent high inflationary cycle be drive by a unique set of circumstance and be not a regularly occur event . therefore , while it be appropriate that the whiplash tariff be regularly review against inflation , three year be the appropriate length of time to hold such review . other than uprate the whiplash tariff to account for actual and expected inflation , as I have explain , no other amendment to the 2021 regulation be make by this instrument . in accordance with her statutory obligation , the Lord Chancellor have consult the Lady Chief Justice before make this instrument . the Master of the Rolls , act on behalf of the Lady Chief Justice , express his endorsement of the proposal to uprate the whiplash tariff . he also note that the judiciary would not welcome any further derogation from the principle that damage be assess and award by the court . as we have see , in accordance with the power confer on the Lord Chancellor by the 2018 Act , the instrument only adjust the level of damage for whiplash injury last up to two year . the amendment that this instrument will make to the 2021 regulation represent a balanced , proportionate and practical approach to uprate the whiplash tariff ahead of the next review . I call the shadow Minister . as the Minister explain , the Government have conduct their statutory review of the Whiplash Injury Regulations 2021 and determine that , while the exist tariff structure remain appropriate , an inflationary uplift be require . the propose amendment will increase compensation for whiplash injury occur on or after 31 May 2025 by 14 % to 15 % across all tariff band . that adjustment account for inflation since 2021 and provide an additional buffer for expected inflation until the next statutory review in 2027 . the framework of the tariff remain unchanged , include the two - tier structure for " whiplash only " and " whiplash with minor psychological injury " , the requirement for a single medical report to support a claim , and the option for a discretionary uplift of up to 20 % in exceptional case . the review process highlight challenge in determine prognosis due to inconsistency in medical reporting . the Ministry of Justice have commit to work with the pre - action protocol medical report provider MedCo to improve the clarity and quality of medical report , and we welcome that commitment . I understand that the Treasury be due to report later this month on whether insurer have , in fact , pass saving from these reform on to policyholder — the primary , or certainly an important , aim of the policy ' s original intention . it be important that motorist receive the anticipated low premium . we look forward to the finding of the review , and it would be helpful if the Minister confirm that it be on track . furthermore , while the statutory instrument be limit to amend tariff amount , it form part of a wide framework of reform to be review . a post - implementation review of the whiplash reform programme be due to take place in 2025 - 26 , and we welcome the opportunity to assess its effectiveness in deliver fair compensation and maintain access to justice . we support the regulation and recognise their role in ensure that claimant continue to receive fair and proportionate compensation . we look forward to the continued monitoring of the system to ensure that it remain balanced and effective . give the extensive and thorough review of the regulation provide by the Minister , I do not seek to comment any far . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the change today be simple : the compensation tariff for pain , suffering and loss of amenity in whiplash claim be be uplift by approximately 15 % to reflect inflation since the original 2021 figure be set , with a buffer to account for future inflation . these update be welcome , but also present we with an opportunity to reflect on the broad balance we strike between tackle fraud and protect the right of those with legitimate injury . Whiplash have long be a contentious area of UK personal injury law . we have one of the high rate of whiplash claim in the world , which have undoubtedly contribute to the rise in motor insurance cost , and whiplash claim have historically add billion of pound to insurance cost . in my constituency of Chichester , the picture be particularly concern . accord to a study by the Driving Instructors Association , Chichester be now the most accident - prone city in the UK , report 232 accident per 100 , 000 resident , which be 54 % high than the national average . even more alarmingly , Chichester have the high fatality rate of any city , at 5 . 6 fatal accident per 100 , 000 resident . these be not just statistic ; they be life lose and family change forever . that underline the real - world impact of road safety and why fair , accessible compensation for those injure on our road be vital . the 2021 reform that introduce fix tariff and mandatory medical assessment have have an impact , and the number of whiplash claim have decline , but whiplash still account for a large share of personal injury claim , and the need to ensure fairness in the system remain . we must remember that behind every claim be a person , often in pain , unable to work , potentially scared to go back out on the road and navigate an unfamiliar legal system . for they , the process must be simple , fair and accessible . victim should never be discourage from seek rightful compensation because of excessive bureaucracy or overly rigid procedure . that be why the Liberal Democrats have consistently advocate for a balanced approach . during debate on the Civil Liability Act 2018 , my colleague in the other place , Lord Sharkey and Lord Marks of Henley - on - Thames , work hard to push for strong safeguard . they argue that the definition of " whiplash injury " should be write into primary legislation to allow full parliamentary scrutiny , and they push for compensation to be base on Judicial College guideline , not simply on fix tariff , to preserve judicial discretion and to reflect the severity of injury . they also urge the previous Government to ensure that any saving make from reduce fraudulent claim be pass on to consumer through low insurance premium — a promise that the insurance industry have be slow to honour and which be certainly not reflect in the consumer experience . we also look forward to the finding of the review on whether those saving have be deliver to customer . we continue to support a system that be firm on fraud but fair to victim . yes , we need robust safeguard , such as mandatory medical assessment and close co - ordination between regulator , insurer and law enforcement to root out dishonest claim , but that must not come at the expense of those with genuine injury . it be critical that review mechanism be in place not just to track inflation , but to assess whether the tariff system continue to serve justice . we believe that the Government must do more to simplify the claim process , particularly for those who do not have or can not access legal representation . the update tariff be a necessary correction for inflation , but it must not be see as the end of the matter . the long - term success of the system depend on three thing : maintain fairness for claimant , preserve judicial discretion where need and ensure that promise saving be feel by customer . we must remain focused on people , not just on policy . I thank hon . member for their contribution to the debate and for the support of the Liberal Democrats and the official Opposition on the direction of travel . I be grateful to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , for remind we that behind every claim be a person , and that this be about help real people and real life . the official Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , rightly mention the report on reduce insurance cost for consumer . we share his and the liberal Democrat spokesperson ' s concern about that , which I think be feel across the House . the report be publish on 27 March and show that the whiplash reform have reduce insurance cost for customer . it be produce by his Majesty ' s Treasury , which work with the Financial Conduct Authority to fulfil its statutory obligation under section 11 ( 7 ) of the Civil Liability Act 2018 . although it be a factual reporting of the information from insurer provide to HMT through the Financial Conduct Authority , it do not represent the Government ' s view , so it be right and proper that , separately from the report , the Ministry of Justice will undertake a post - implementation review of the whiplash reform later this year . I thank hon . member for their contribution . I be sure I hear the Minister ask for the leave of the House at the beginning of his remark . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Local Government Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Cornwall Council ( Adult Education Functions ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 24 February , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft East Midlands Combined County Authority ( Adult Education Functions ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 24 February , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority ( Adult Education Functions ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 24 February , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . Petition - Protection of the ceremonial county of Rutland Rutland be a proud and ancient county , record in the Domesday book and with a Lord Lieutenant since 1559 . we have a strong connection to the monarchy , symbolise by the statue of her late Majesty the Queen in Oakham , which be build last year — the first in Britain since her pass . however , without legislative change to the Lieutenancies Act 1997 , Rutland will lose its ceremonial county status . I do not believe that the Government intend to put our ceremonial county status at risk , but the consequence of their reform to local government have do exactly that . no other county be in this position . despite our small size , 7 , 141 people have sign the petition in the last six week — that be over 17 % of Rutland ' s population , and more than one in six rutlander . it be one of the big wet petition to be deliver to Parliament in the 21st century , and I hope that demonstrate to the Government how strong the feeling be in our community and county . rutland ' s motto be " Multum in Parvo " , much in little , and we be ask for just a little , which would mean so very much to we . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and protect Rutland ' s status as a ceremonial county regardless of the outcome of Local Government Re - Organisation and Devolution . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Rutland and Stamford Declares that the Government proposal for Local Government Re - Organisation and Devolution risk the status of Rutland as a ceremonial county ; and far declare that the early record of a Lord Lieutenant in Rutland be 1559 and that , regardless of the outcome of Local Government Re - Organisation , the petitioner urge the Government to ensure the protection of Rutland ' s Ceremonial County status , with the continuation of Lord Lieutenants and High Sheriffs to serve as the Monarch ' s representative in Rutland exclusively , thereby protect the identity and pride of our community in our home . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and protect Rutland ' s status as a ceremonial county regardless of the outcome of Local Government Re - Organisation and Devolution . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003055 ] petition - Retrospective charge by Yorkshire Water I rise to present a petition about a £ 47 retrospective charge that Yorkshire Water have unfairly give resident across my constituency , due to the water company ' s own mistake . that come on top of rise bill , record profit , and excessive executive pay . I urge Yorkshire Water to think again , to be reasonable , and for once to put my constituent first . the petition have now receive more than 1 , 000 signature in little over a week , and the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of petitioner and take immediate action to stop Yorkshire Water retrospectively charge resident £ 46 . 65 . " follow be the full text of the petition [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Rother Valley declare that Yorkshire Water should cancel their retrospective charge to resident of £ 46 . 65 which be not include in their last Annual Bill for April 2024 – March 2025 ; far that in mistakenly not include this charge , Yorkshire Water have put resident under further stress during a cost - of - living crisis ; far that such a mistake be particularly frustrating for resident give Yorkshire Water ' s failure to properly invest in upgrade infrastructure . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of petitioner and take immediate action to stop Yorkshire Water retrospectively charge resident £ 46 . 65 . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003058 ] Petition - Paignton Post Office I rise to present a petition from the resident of Torbay in respect of protect and save Paignton post office , which be a vital part of Paignton town centre . resident across the whole of Torbay value this resource , and it have a massive impact on community engagement and through the simple face - to - face engagement that many people get when they use the service , but also as a financial hub in the busy small town of Paignton . the petitioner call on the House of Commons to reach out to the Government and the Post Office to do the right thing and withdraw the threatened closure . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Torbay , declare that Paignton Post Office have be threaten with closure , and far declare that Post Offices , and the service they provide , be vital part of our community . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government and the Post Office to reverse their decision to put Paignton Post Office at risk of closure . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003062 ] clonoe Inquest Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) may I start by thank the Secretary of State ? the public will not necessarily know that it be very unusual for the Secretary of State to respond to an Adjournment debate , and his presence here demonstrate how important this be and how seriously he take the task . it also bring back fond memory for I , but that be another matter . I hope that every Member of Parliament elect to this House believe that uphold justice should be our first priority as a Parliament . the right to life be the first among the right we should uphold . that justice , and that right , should be even hand , and there should be no exception for agent of the state . I believe that , and accordingly I be a fierce critic of the state in , for example , the unlawful killing of Jean Charles de Menezes , the torture of Binyam Mohamed , and the failure to protect and provide justice for the six Catholics who be murder at Loughinisland in 1994 . there be no general exception when the state get it wrong . justice must , by definition , be fair and practical , and I be afraid the finding of the Northern Ireland coroner on the Clonoe incident be neither . to understand the significance of this inquest ruling , we must consider the context . Operation Banner be the british Army ' s long deployment , span from 1969 to 2007 . More than 300 , 000 soldier serve sequentially in Northern Ireland , and despite immense challenge , the British Army perform admirably . they be not beyond reproach — Bloody Sunday be a striking example , I fear — but the massive majority of our soldier act with professionalism and restraint in the face of danger . the trouble lead to 3 , 500 death and 50 , 000 injury . More than 90 % of they be cause or bring about by paramilitary . the british Army ' s rule of engagement be clear — govern by the yellow card , which soldier carry at all time . soldier be require to issue a challenge before use force , unless do so would put they or other in immediate danger . the intent be clear : to protect innocent life , while allow the use of lethal force when it be necessary and reasonable . some 1 , 400 member of the security force die in those trouble . they kill approximately 300 terrorist . those figure , and that ratio reveal the discipline and restraint of our soldier and our policeman act under yellow card rule . they also reflect the personal risk to the soldier and policeman of observe those rule . unsurprisingly , the IRA member never carry a yellow card . they target civilian and commit murder without warn . their method range from torture , follow by a bullet in the back of the head , through to the mass murder of innocent civilian in atrocity such as the Omagh , Claudy and Ballykelly bombing and the utterly cold - blooded Kingsmill execution . incidentally , the IRA be responsible for more catholic death during the trouble than any other group . the IRA member be terrorist , but we should not forget that they be also criminal specialise in organised crime . they make £ 5 million or £ 6 million a year from protection racket , smuggling , extortion , drug , tax fraud , state benefit fraud , fraudulent front company , illegal gambling , theft and other crime throughout the island of Ireland . if colleague want evidence of that criminality , in 1990 I carry out an investigation of those activity , which be write up on 6 November of that year in the Financial Times . the point be that the IRA be both a criminal gang and a terrorist organisation . now it be try to rewrite history . first , I commend the right hon . gentleman on secure this debate . he have be a stalwart supporter of the armed force on every occasion in the time that I have be in this House . he have be a supporter of what be right and of justice , and he set a standard for we all to follow . I commend he for that , and I thank he . I also thank he for work alongside my party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , and the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) on these issue and for move thing forward with this Adjournment debate . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that the message send through this coroner ' s report be a massive overstepping of power ? it will have security implication for every branch of police and the armed force in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and it must be strike down as not only ultra vis but factually incorrect . those who carry out the attack on the Royal Ulster Constabulary station do so with the intent to take life , and they be rightly assess as do that and deal with in an appropriate manner . this republican rewriting of the truth must end now in this Chamber . the hon . member be exactly right , and he preface what I intend to say . he repeat the point that his party leader make in the urgent question , when he say that the judgment be ultra vis . I believe the right hon . Gentleman be right in that , although I leave that to the lawyer . to answer the rest of the question from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , we have to return to the actual fact of the Clonoe incident . the self - style East Tyrone brigade be one of the most active provisional IRA unit . in the late 1980 and early 1990 , it undertake a surge of activity , pursue a Maoist - style murder strategy . I think it be call Lynagh ' s strategy at the time . in August 1988 , eight soldier be kill by a Provisional IRA bomb at Ballygawley . on 7 March 1989 , two Protestants be shoot dead at a garage in Coagh . a former member of the Ulster Defence Regiment , Derek Ferguson , be murder in 1991 , also at Coagh . an attack against Glenanne barrack on 31 May 1991 leave three soldier dead . it be also think that some of their member be involve in the Derryard attack in 1989 , notably use a heavy machine gun , probably the DShK we will see later in this story , to kill two british soldier . in February 1992 , the ruc special branch find out that the IRA be plan a number of attack on 15 and 16 February . it have information that an IRA team , arm with a 12 . 7 mm soviet DShK heavy machine gun and three Kalashnikov rifle , would attack the Coalisland police station . the intelligence indicate that the attack would be mount from the Clonoe chapel car park , so the SAS commander ' s plan be to arrest the terrorist as they form up at the car park , prevent the attack on the police station altogether and seize the heavy machine gun . the commander do not know how many terrorist , vehicle or weapon would be involve , but it be think that as many as 20 IRA member could be involve . the troop sergeant assess the rather straggly hedge line adjacent to the car park to be the only suitable position where partial concealment be possible , but it notably do not provide cover from gunfire . the SAS team carry the standard Heckler & Koch G3 K rifle and one soldier have a general purpose machine gun . perhaps more notably in this context , some have shotgun load with alternate round design to smash windscreen and deliver tear gas to immobilise the driver and stop the vehicle . the soldier also carry caltrop to wreck the tyre of vehicle attempt to escape . the armour - pierce round that the judge refer to could penetrate body armour , but their primary purpose in this context be to penetrate the engine block of the vehicle and stop they . the equipment be all design to stop escape and allow arrest — that be the key point . the plan be to close in on the IRA operative and to arrest they as they assemble and mount the heavy machine gun on to the vehicle in the chapel car park . at 7 . 40 pm on that dark February night , 12 member of the SAS be in position on the boundary of the Clonoe chapel car park , behind the hedgerow . the soldier observe the movement of five car in and out of the car park . they be assume to be reconnaissance vehicle scout out the car park for the lorry to which the DShK be to be attach . however , the intelligence briefing be wrong — an error that end up create chaos and extreme danger . instead , at around 22 : 40 hour , the lorry - mount DShK be use to attack the Coalisland police station . sixty round be fire at close range from the DShK and from the Kalashnikovs . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say , the attacker ' intent be clear : to kill police officer . they be all would - be murderer ; of that , there can be no doubt . the gunfire could clearly be hear and the tracer bullet be observe by the SAS patrol in the car park at Clonoe . after a minute or two , the soldier hear another burst of gunfire . the soldier , of course , do not know that that be simply bravado . for all they and their commander know , hide behind their hedge , the murder gang be engage other soldier or other policeman . within a minute , the lorry appear out of the darkness , drive at breakneck speed , lurch around corner and with its engine scream in too low a gear . as it drive into the car park , the IRA truck ' s headlight illuminate the SAS position behind the hedgerow . at that point , the soldier do not know whether they have be spot . the soldier then stand up , advance on the occupant of the lorry and three other vehicle in the car park with the lorry , and open fire . four IRA member be shoot dead , four be wound , one of whom be arrest at the scene and , notably , give first aid by the soldier , and other flee in car . now we come forward to February 2025 , when Mr Justice Michael Humphreys rule that the use of lethal force by the SAS in this incident be unlawful . the ruling be demonstrably wrong and ignore the plain fact of the case . the SAS soldier operate under the control of the police force , and the operation be carry out with police officer in close proximity . they face heavily armed terrorist who have just carry out an attack on a police station — lethally , for all they know . they do not know how many terrorist there be , but they assume that there could be up to 20 . they do not know how many vehicle there be or how many weapon be in the other car . that create a number of problem for issue a challenge , which be the first option under the yellow card system . while it may be reasonable to stand up and issue a challenge to either one terrorist or a small number of terrorist who could be see and cover while they respond , the circumstance be completely different when there be an unknown number of antagonist in an unknown number of car with an unknown number of weapon . the probability of one of 20 , let we say , decide to fire on the soldier be much high , particularly when that individual may be out of sight of the patrol . that be doubly so when one remember that this band of killer have just attempt to murder many policeman and have return in a high state of excitement , pump up with adrenalin and fire their weapon in the air . secondly , the fact that the SAS commander do not know where they all be mean that his issue a challenge could expose his entire troop to a lethal crossfire . remember : this be happen on a dark February night at about 10 . 45 pm . issue a challenge under those circumstance could have amount to collective suicide . circumstance such as that be precisely why the yellow card rule allow a soldier to fire without challenge when the danger be too great . I find it hard to imagine a more clearcut case that allow fire without challenge , but in his ruling the judge ignore several significant fact and appear to have be naive in his view of other . his selection of fact appear to be extremely partial . for example , the judge make much of the SAS ' s use of armour - pierce bullet , but he make no mention of the fact that the anti - aircraft gun the IRA be use fire armour - pierce incendiary round five time the size of any rifle bullet , or the fact that they could be fire at a rate of 600 to 1 , 200 round a minute . those bullet can pierce concrete wall or shoot down aircraft at a mile range . the machine gun have just be deploy and could have eliminate the entire SAS patrol in a matter of second . it be a terrible weapon , and capture it before it could be use to kill more people be an important part of the SAS task . the judge accept assertion that the IRA weapon all have their safety catch engage . frankly , if that be true , there be no way at all for the SAS commander or the troop to know that at the beginning of the fight . in fact , how likely be that ? let we take the DShK , which the forensic examiner say have its work part forward , with no round in the chamber . the gun be mount on a lorry that have just be drive back at breakneck speed from Coalisland in a few minute . during the few minute of that journey back , get the gun into the state describe would have require nine action , some of which require two hand , while hang on to the side of a lurch truck . I be afraid it all sound just a bit improbable . the forensic specialist do not actually arrive until two hour and 45 minute after the action , at a scene contaminate by fireman , police , soldier and other staff — indeed , she complain about that very contamination . against the forensic specialist ' s view , we must take the observation of soldier on the ground and other evidence . four soldier report see flash from the back of the lorry , which they interpret as muzzle flash . we be not talk about inexperienced soldier : they would know what they be look at . two soldier hear round strike the ground to their right , near the hedgerow where the SAS be hide . the forensic examiner document bullet strike mark on the hedgerow . one soldier receive a bullet wound to the face that knock he to the ground . without any forensic evidence , it be attribute to a ricochet , which implausibly would have require the round to go through a 180 ° change of direction . soldier G hear the exchange of gunfire and see a soldier go down , which " confirm my belief that the terrorist be shoot at we " . there be also an interview take by the Garda , in the Republic of Ireland , of one of the IRA driver , who say he could not understand why his colleague have open fire . he have be in a position in which he be able to judge where the fire be come from and obviously believe that it be from his own side . he refuse to sign the interview note , presumably when he consider the consequence for he back home of give away such critical datum . all of this be counter by the claim that no bullet casing be find on the ground in the car park , but a number be find in the lorry , and one of the car present appear to have have a general - purpose machine gun and an AKM on board . if those weapon be fire from inside a car , there would of course have be no casing on the ground in the car park . instead , GPMG live ammunition and disintegrate link be find in that car , as well as an AKM case from a rifle other than those recover , imply that a fourth AKM have be fire from the car . the car have all its seat other than the driver ' s lay flat , which be standard practice for the IRA when use a hatchback as a weapon platform . the car escape and be then set on fire , and the fire service be keep away from it while it burn out — another standard IRA tactic to destroy forensic evidence . I be afraid that this ruling expose the double standard that have plague the legacy of the trouble . my right hon . friend be give an important and tell speech on a very important topic . as he rightly say , these soldier be subject to well - define rule of engagement . he have describe the IRA as a terrorist organisation , but what he have not say be that at the time , it be the most sophisticated terrorist organisation in the world . the soldier he talk about be operate under order , in a chain of command and on the Queen ' s business , and could not respond . do my right hon . friend agree that there be a grotesque double standard here , and that not only be this an injustice , but the Government ' s position be potentially deeply corrosive of morale , as well as deeply unjust to the veteran ? my right hon . friend make a very good point . of course , he be the Member for Hereford , so many of the people who have retire and will face these threat will be his constituent . he and I be long - stand supporter of human right in this country , and have both defend article 2 , for example , but this case be a misuse of article 2 . the people who write the european convention on human right be recently out of the second world war — they do not write it to be interpret in this way . he have make a double point . return to my right hon . friend ' s point about the IRA , since the event in question , the Good Friday agreement have allow for the release of convict terrorist in order to achieve an end to the bloodshed . I guess we all agree with that , yet we continue to persecute those who fight against the terrorist . these persecution be conduct decade after the fact , without any new evidence be present to give reason for the reopening of case . after the action , everybody involve be question thoroughly to establish the fact — what the intelligence be , what the arrest plan be , and what happen . on the basis of that questioning , on 15 October 1992 — with the evidence close to hand and the event fresh in the witness ' mind , and when investigation of everything be possible — the police and the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland conclude that there should be no prosecution of the soldier . there be no case to answer . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for bring this debate before the House , and for the quality of his exposition . do he agree that this case highlight the single big problem that we face , which be that the IRA keep no record at all , and if it do have any , it destroy they ? many IRA member get letter of comfort from the then Government , quietly and secretly , which end up kill any chance of prosecution . soldier who serve have none of that ; they be leave out in the open , and can be prosecute , while many IRA member have disappear and can live a life without further charge . my right hon . and gallant Friend make the central point of the argument perfectly . here we be , 33 year later , with a Northern Ireland coroner judge event in retrospect , without any new evidence , and find that soldier act unlawfully . that be entirely at odd with the result of the legal investigation immediately after the operation in 1992 . I believe in a process of peace and reconciliation that allow closure for all the relative of the dead , but he make a good point : there be no record , and that go for the vast majority of the people who die in the trouble . that make this a process not of peace and reconciliation , but of vindictiveness and vengeance . it be an attempt to rewrite history , not find the truth . there have be countless attempt to take british soldier to court for their action during the trouble , but how many ex - IRA combatant have face the same thing ? not one . not a single IRA member have be pursue over the 2 , 000 death — all murder — for which the IRA be responsible . our veteran be be punish in their retirement year for decision they make when serve their country . the psychological impact on they , and on soldier serve today , be enormous . the ruling also undermine the integrity of present and future operation . we can not send soldier into high - risk environment , ask they to undertake brutal training , and expect they to operate with confidence if they fear be condemn decade later . the ruling on the Clonoe incident risk further persecution of the british soldier who serve during the trouble . the Government must ensure that those who serve our country today be protect from such partisan distortion of justice . our soldier deserve well . what we be see with the Clonoe ruling be historical revisionism that seek to punish those who serve our country in the most difficult and dangerous circumstance . the law must be apply fairly , and we must not allow politic to undermine the legacy of those who fight to protect our freedom . the government — I say this directly to the Secretary of State — give notice at the time of the election that they intend to remove the element of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 that protect soldier and police who serve during the trouble from prosecution . the judgment from the Northern Ireland coroner on the Clonoe incident expose a number of soldier to potential prosecution . the Ministry of Defence be quite properly seek a judicial review of this inquiry , but even if it win , we must put in place statutory protection for our soldier , now and in the future , from this persecution . these be man who serve their country with honour , heroism and skill , sometimes in the face of the most incredible danger . they be now no doubt hope for a well - earn peaceful retirement , not a future of endless stress and psychological torture . if the Government leave they open to persecution it will be shameful , and will serve only to further the IRA ' s attempt to rewrite the history of Northern Ireland . many member may have receive letter on this issue from retired Special Air Service soldier . Most of they say in those letter that they support human right , but they do more than that ; they guarantee those right for the rest of we . let I end by quote the word of Charles Province , the american soldier and poet : " it be the soldier , not the reporter , who have give we the freedom of the press . it be the soldier , not the poet , who have give we the freedom of speech . it be the soldier , not the peace camp organiser , who have give we the freedom to demonstrate . it be the soldier , who serve beneath the flag , whose coffin be drape by the flag , who allow the protestor to burn the flag . it be the soldier , not the politician … who have give these freedom . " these soldier be the guarantor of our security , our freedom and our justice . I say to the Secretary of State , surely we owe they no less than security , freedom and justice in return . as we have a little more time than expect , I want to say a few word in support of my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) . I serve in Northern Ireland , as many other do , during the trouble . we do not ask to go there ; we be send there , and we be give real restriction through the yellow card on how we be allow to behave . in fact , all the soldier with whom I serve be so fearful of loose off their rifle at any stage that they would probably have err on the side of bring themselves into danger , because they be so certain that they must not make a mistake . not a single soldier I ever meet think that this be some kind of game to be play . it be a life - and - death issue , and all those whom my right hon . friend have describe be fully aware of what be require of they under the yellow card provision . they would not have loose off their weapon have they not genuinely fear for their life , give the case that have go before , and the death that happen — the IRA do not give any warning before they fire . those issue be critical in all this , and when we sit in judgment over what happen then , all these year later , it be not justice . it become a pursuit by those who , as my right hon . Friend say , want to change the history . we give away a lot in the Good Friday agreement , and many of those who lose family member — we will all remember various individual — have to put up with this requirement so that we could get peace . it take a lot to get peace , and it take a lot of suffering thereafter to find out what happen . in many case in which soldier serve bravely and die , there be question to be answer about the manner of their death . I think of Robert Nairac , and I make no apology for raise his name again . he be capture by the IRA , torture , beat and kill . no one know where his body lie . his parent die not know what happen to he . we do not know whether he have a proper burial . we certainly know that his parent be dead , but we will never find out what happen to he , and many other like he . they serve their country because they believe , as my right hon . Friend say , in uphold justice and freedom . I put it to the Secretary of State that the key to this whole debate be our duty to protect those who put their life on the line to protect our freedom and our justice , and our duty to make sure that thing be fair . if we forget about they for just one moment , we be not worthy of be here , for they do not have a voice and can not say no when they be order into situation where they could die . only the British Army could have do what we do in Northern Ireland . we put up with so much and restrain ourselves with such dignity . I urge the Minister to listen carefully to my right hon . friend , and to ensure justice for those who fear pursuit for only one reason : political purpose . it be time to end this . I really welcome the opportunity that the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) have give I and the House to listen to this debate , and I welcome the opportunity to respond . I congratulate he on secure it . I listen very carefully to everything that he say . as he will know , on 11 February he ask I an urgent question about the finding of the coroner in the Clonoe inquest . in answer to that question , I tell he and the House that the Ministry of Defence be consider the coroner ' s finding carefully . before turn to the outcome of those consideration , it be worth remind the House of the fact of the case , which we have hear a lot about already . on 16 February 1992 , there be an attack on Coalisland police station by a unit of the Provisional Irish Republican Army , arm with a lot of weaponry , include a heavy machine gun . approximately 60 round be fire , but thankfully no one be injure . follow its departure , and subsequent arrival at the Clonoe church car park , the unit be engage by member of the Army ' s specialist military unit , result in four PIRA gunman be shoot and kill . as we know , the inquest into their death begin in 2023 . on 6 February this year , the coroner find that the use of lethal force by the soldier be unjustified , and that the operation " be not plan and control in such a way as to minimise to the great extent possible the need for recourse to lethal force . " I listen very carefully to what the House say when I answer the urgent question . follow careful consideration , the Ministry of Defence have write to the coroner to outline its intention of apply for a judicial review . in its view , the finding of the coroner do not properly reflect the context of the incident — I listen very carefully to what the right hon . Gentleman say about what happen — or the challenging circumstance in which member of the armed force serve in Northern Ireland . the Ministry of Defence have also confirm that it be fund the veteran in question to seek a judicial review , and it be continue to provide they with welfare support . the independence of the judiciary be a fundamental democratic principle , and it be crucial to uphold the rule of law in the United Kingdom . one important element of that principle be the right to legally challenge the finding of judicial decision maker where it be believe that an error have be make , and the Government have determine on this occasion that that be indeed the most appropriate course of action . it be now important , as I think the House will recognise , give the confirmation by the Ministry of Defence that it intend to seek a judicial review of the finding of the inquest , that these proceeding be allow to run their course . this Government have a long - stand commitment to repeal and replace the almost universally opposed Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . I think it be fair to say that , among the political party in Northern Ireland , it be universally opposed . the Act have be find by the domestic court to be unlawful in a number of respect , and we should not forget that the legislation in question make provision to grant those responsible for terrible terrorist crime immunity from prosecution . that be what the Act do . as part of our commitment to repeal and replace the Act , the Government be commit to propose measure to allow inquest previously halt by that legislation to proceed . I set out this position in my write ministerial statement of 29 July and 7 October 2024 and in my oral statement to the House on 4 December 2024 . the Government recognise that the clonoe finding have cause great concern among many of those who serve in Northern Ireland during Operation Banner , and we have hear tonight from some who have give distinguished service to the armed force and also to this House . the veteran I have meet , include a group I meet this afternoon , have also express a strong view that the way in which we collectively address the legacy of the trouble have to be fair , balanced and proportionate . could the Secretary of State not simply say now to the House that he have a deep understanding and awareness of the trauma that have be cause , and that he take the side — not judicially , but politically , in his own mind as a matter of human sympathy — with the poor people affect by these decision and how they be play out in the public realm ? could he not say that now , so that veteran and their family understand that a Government Minister in a senior position get it and be on their side in his own mind , even if not judicially ? I express that view to the veteran I meet this afternoon , when I thank they for their service in the most difficult and dangerous circumstance . the right hon . Member invite I to do that this evening , and I readily do it , because they be seek to protect the citizen of the United Kingdom , include of Northern Ireland , in the face of terrorism and terrorist . as the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington point out in his speech , the terrorist be responsible for the vast majority of death . however , I would add that many of they be prosecute and convict — paramilitary on the republican side , and also those on the loyalist side who be also guilty of the most appalling crime . as be point out , part of the price — in my view , rightly pay — to enable the Good Friday agreement to succeed and to bring the extraordinary peace and prosperity Northern Ireland have see in the almost 27 year since , be the release of prisoner , which be really , really difficult for many family to accept , to understand and to cope with . I would also point out that , in recent year , a number of republicans have indeed be prosecute — in fact , more republican have be . I think I be right in say that there have be one conviction in the last 12 year of a soldier who serve there , and that be a suspend sentence . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) mention the case of Robert Nairac . the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that the Independent Commission for the Location of Victims ' remain , which do such an important job to try to reunite the remain of love one who be murder by the Provisional IRA with their family — although Robert Nairac ' s parent be dead , I think he have other live relative — have make two recent attempt to find his remain , on the basis of information it have receive . I be very sad to say that so far that have not prove possible , but I hope that those who have information , and who have enable the ICLVR to find the remain of a number of people and return they to their family , will continue to provide information to that body so that it be able to recover those remain . as the Secretary of State , it be my job to ensure that these concern and perspective be hear , alongside other view express by a range of party who also want to see , in their own way , a resolution to the complex trouble that happen and the issue that remain outstanding . I be think in particular of the many family I have meet since take up the post who have say to I , " we still do not know , decade later , what happen to our love one who be kill . " they carry that trauma with they to this day . therefore , the Government be absolutely committed to try to develop legacy mechanism that be compliant with human right — I stand with the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington in my support , and the Government ' s support , for the european convention on human right — and that can command a degree of public confidence across community in Northern Ireland and Great Britain . I will just say this about the approach the previous Government take . it cause , self - evidently , immense difficulty , include numerous finding of human right incompatibility and therefore an erosion of trust in the Government ' s ability to address these issue fairly . may I remind the Secretary of State that , at a hearing in 2017 , the Defence Committee take evidence from four distinguished professor of law , include Philippe Sands , with whose work he be no doubt very familiar , and they make it very clear to we that in principle there be nothing illegal about have a statute of limitation , provide that it be accompany by a truth recovery process ? that meet the requirement of avoid the otherwise illegal act of give impunity for crime commit . the Secretary of State say that there be technical problem with the previous legislation that render it in some respect illegal , but will he not accept that the persecution of elderly veteran — which can not , in the end , lead to anyone spend more than two year in prison anyway , give the Northern Ireland ( Sentences ) Act 1998 — will continue unless and until some form of legislation be put back in place to draw a line under prosecution and to fulfil the other part of the requirement by a truth recovery process ? whatever he think about the specific legislation they be repeal , will he not accept the principle that that be the only way to protect people against this form of legalistic persecution ? I would say to the right hon . Gentleman , first of all , that there be not technical problem with the legacy Act ; there be many legal problem with the legacy Act . it be the Government ' s position , and I think it be the position of the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington , that we uphold the european convention on human right . I have say from the beginning that I be determined to ensure that the legacy mechanism , in the form that they be bring before the House , be compliant with the european convention on human right . there be plenty of example of other people in other country who do not abide by the european convention . in my view , it be a very important foundation of our liberty and our protection . there be legal problem with the legacy Act , not technicality , if I may say so . I also point out to the right hon . Gentleman that the idea of immunity from prosecution be also opposed . I have meet one family of a soldier who be murder by the IRA who be outrage by the idea that his killer should get immunity under the legislation the previous Government pass . I be very sorry , but that answer do not address the question of principle . the fact be that , unless the Secretary of State ' s chum , Professor Sands , and three other equally distinguished professor of law be mistaken , there be no reason in principle — regardless of how flawed he , and the court , even , may think the previous legislation be — that we can not have a statute of limitation to put an end to these prosecution , couple with a truth recovery process . of course , it will always be possible to find someone who want the other lot prosecute but not their lot , but it be the job of Government to cut through that and do the right thing , as Nelson Mandela do so effectively in South Africa . I be not familiar with that particular bit of evidence . the right hon . Gentleman cite one group of lawyer who hold one view , but it will not surprise the House if I say that it would be possible to find another group of lawyer who hold a different view . the purpose of the court be to adjudicate between the various argument that be put and reach a decision , and we respect the judgment of the court . it be not possible to have a legal system or a coronial system where we get all the verdict we like and we be guarantee to never get verdict we do not like . the fact be — [ interruption . ] we have appeal some aspect of the judgment . the Government come into office commit to remove conditional immunity because we think it be wrong to give terrorist immunity from prosecution for the crime they have commit . I would also say to the right hon . Gentleman that the truth be that the prospect of prosecution be diminish with each pass year . many of the family that I have meet recognise that no one be go to be hold to account for what happen to their love one — they just want to find the answer . one point the Secretary of State have not yet come to be that there be an excruciating element of double jeopardy here . every single case we be talk about be investigate carefully by the police at the time — the soldier and the commander involve be interrogate as to the intelligence , the plan and the outcome at the time , with all the information available . what we be see here be that soldier be effectively find innocent 33 year ago , only for we to come back and do it all over again to get another answer that we want . he must understand that the soldier see this as terrible double jeopardy . may I bring the Secretary of State to the underlie principle of the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) ? what we be all after be a mechanism , however that be find through the law , that will allow we to release these soldier from a lifetime sentence of be pursue by the court under what be , in my view , frankly , a misuse of article 2 . if it be true that , as my right hon . Friend say , people like Philippe Sands — hardly a hard - line right winger — think that we can do this , will the Secretary of State give the House an undertaking that he will make every effort to deliver on that aim ? I would like to give the right hon . Gentleman an assurance that when parliamentary time allow , I plan to bring forward legislation to try to find a way forward . the House will be the judge when the legislation be publish . I be consult widely on it and will continue to do so , include with veteran and other . I be not naive about the prospect of come up with proposal that command widespread support , but I would simply observe that the last set of proposal signally fail to command support among the political party and many people in Northern Ireland . that be why I be have to deal with the consequence of repeat finding of incompatibility , because of that legacy legislation , with the european convention on human right . when I last stand at the Dispatch Box to address this question , I say that we owe a great debt of attitude to those who serve in Operation Banner with such distinction . I wish to repeat that statement tonight . the true legacy of those who serve during that awful period be to be find in the peace that the people of Northern Ireland now enjoy . if we be be honest , the armed force do their job . the Good Friday agreement be itself not able to get to grip with exactly how legacy would be deal with — those involve have enough on their plate to secure that extraordinary agreement on that miraculous Good Friday . we as elect representative have to recognise that since the signing of the Good Friday agreement , we have not be able to agree and implement measure that effectively address the legacy of the past in a way that be balanced , proportionate , transparent , fair and equitable , and that have a chance of command a measure of public support . that be the objective of the Government . I will do my good to achieve it , but the House will be the judge . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Deferred Division Energy Conservation that the draft Ecodesign for Energy - relate Products and Energy Information ( Amendment ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 4 March , be approve . Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Sarah Coombes Andrew Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Andrew George Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Claire Hanna Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Tom Hayes John Healey Pippa Heylings Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Justin Madders Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Anna Sabine Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Jim Allister Gregory Campbell Alex Easton Nigel Farage Roger Gale Carla Lockhart James McMurdock Mark Pritchard Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Martin Vickers Sammy Wilson the House divide : Ayes 349 , Noes 14 . question accordingly agree to .