support young carer be a key priority for this Government . my hon . friend be a real champion on these issue , and I be very happy to work with he to ensure that the view of young carer be hear in this place . the Government have table amendment to the information sharing and consistent identifi duty in clause 4 . the wide picture be that child be too often fail by inadequate or patchy information sharing , which be not good enough . the Bill enable we to make the change that child need , and the amendment will ensure that we get that right from the outset . these amendment will ensure that where those in scope engage other to provide service relate to safeguard or promote the welfare of child , such as primary care provider , the duty will also extend to the provider of those service . this be not intend to cover provider engage by those in scope for other purpose that may incidentally engage with the relevant function — for example , IT service provider or interpreter — but do not independently hold information that be not already available to the agency in scope . this will be clarify in statutory guidance . the Government have also table amendment to clause 4 , 13 and 18 to ensure that the Bill ' s information share power and duty contain standard provision , where appropriate . these amendment be require to make it clear that datum protection legislation will and must be comply with , to ensure that appropriate restriction on the sharing of datum — such as a duty of confidence — do not prevent the sharing of datum , and to ensure draft consistency across the Bill . the Government have also table amendment that allow information about a provider ' s financial risk to be share between the Department for Education and the Care Quality Commission . after 14 year of inaction , fail outcome and soar cost , it be long past time for the Government to make these change to secure both high capacity and more resilience among provider . again , the amendment before we today will make sure we get those change right . there be provider that operate both adult and child ' s social care service . some of these be very large and may therefore be subject to both our new child ' s social care financial oversight scheme and the Care Quality Commission ' s market oversight scheme , which have be operate for many year in the adult social care market . these amendment allow information to be share between the Department for Education and the Care Quality Commission about a provider ' s financial risk , particularly in advance of either oversight scheme issue advance warn to local authority . this will help the Department to form an accurate , real - time assessment of financial risk . the Government have also table amendment that will apply the relevant clause to Wales , follow the Welsh Government ' s agreement to their application . member of this House , especially those represent Welsh constituency , will already know the difference it make to have Labour government in both London and Cardiff , not only put our child first but work together constructively and at pace to deliver the change that child in every part of the United Kingdom deserve . I pay tribute to Lynne Neagle MS , the Cabinet Secretary for Education in the Welsh Government , for her help in ensure that child in Wales , as well as in England , will benefit from the new protection in this Bill . the first group of amendment in this area will extend the application of the ill - treatment and wilful neglect offence in the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015 to child age 16 and 17 in regulated establishment in Wales , as well as in England . the current gap in the legal framework mean it be not possible to prosecute individual for low - level abuse of 16 and 17 - year - old in regulated child ' s social care establishment or youth detention accommodation . the current offence in section 20 and 21 apply to both England and Wales , and an amendment seek to maintain that application in relation to the amend offence . secondly , an amendment will extend the application of deprivation of liberty order to Wales , enable Welsh local authority to seek authorisation to deprive child of liberty in relevant accommodation in England . we recognise the importance of keep child close to home , within their safe and loving community , where this be possible and in the good interest of the child . however , in some circumstance , where it keep a child safe from harm , a cross - border placement be the right option . this amendment will ensure that , where a cross - border placement that deprive liberty be in the good interest of the child , the child can either be place by Welsh local authority in a secure child ' s home , as at present , or be deprive of their liberty in relevant accommodation in England that may well suit their need . in both case , the legislative consent motion process be engage , as the measure apply to Wales and fall within the legislative competence of the Senedd Cymru . we be work closely with the Welsh Government on this . we continue to have conservation with the Scottish Government on extend the measure to local authority in Scotland . to conclude , the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be a landmark piece of legislation , through which we be deliver the big overhaul to child ' s social care in a generation . our action will transform child ' s life , keep child safe and ensure opportunity and well life chance for all child . I be grateful to all right hon . and hon . member who have make effort to improve the Bill for their scrutiny and for the debate so far . I would also like to extend my thank to all the individual and organisation who contribute to the development of the Bill and submit evidence , include the witness at the Bill Committee ' s oral evidence session . we will continue to work closely with those organisation throughout the passage of the Bill . I look forward to hear further contribution and debate from member this afternoon on the Bill , as we continue to work across the House and beyond to break down the barrier to opportunity and give every child the good start in life . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Sarah Green Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Mike Martin James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Luke Taylor Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Susan Murray Bobby Dean Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Martin McCluskey