prayer the Clerk at the table have inform the House of the unavoidable absence , through illness , of the Speaker from the sitting of the House this week , the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — Dental Services what step she be take to improve the commissioning of primary care dental service for vulnerable people . what recent assessment she have make of the potential impact of level of availability of dentistry appointment on other NHS service . may I , through you , Madam Deputy Speaker , wish Mr Speaker a very speedy recovery ? as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , I want to reform our NHS and social care system to make it fast , simple and fairer . dentistry be a critical part of that . integrated care board be responsible for identify area of local need and determine the priority for investment . NHS England publish guidance in October this year to help icb use their commission flexibility within the national dental contractual framework , and I will be look carefully at how the board be identify need and investment across England , include for vulnerable people . I be glad that the Minister mention icb . Liverpool have a very high percentage of child with dental decay , and tooth extraction be the most common hospital procedure for five to nine - year - old at Alder hey Children ' s Hospital , yet there be a £ 10 million underspend for primary care dentistry , and instead of invest it in preventive care , NHS England give permission to all icb , include NHS Cheshire and Merseyside , to use the balance to balance their budget . will the Minister agree , here and now , to reinstate the ringfenced funding to commission extra capacity for the most vulnerable patient ? I be delighted to be able to inform the hon . member that NHS England have provide guidance for icb that require dental funding to be ringfence , with any unused resource redirect to improve NHS dental access in the first instance . interestingly , icb will report their expenditure against the dental ringfence to NHS England as part of their in - year financial planning , which will happen at the end of this financial year . but the underspend be not be use on dentistry — no , no — you do not get another supplementary question . I be about to call Layla Moran for Question 16 , which be group with this one , but unfortunately she be not present so I shall go straight to the Chairman of the Health and Social Care Committee . the Government previously commit to publish a dental recovery plan , which the former dental Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) , say that the Government would publish shortly . he also tell my Committee : " we do want everyone who need one to be able to access an NHS dentist " . we be surprised , but he say it . we be tell that the plan would be publish during the summer or before the summer recess . when will the plan be publish , if that be still the intention ? presumably it will come alongside the response to our " Dental Services " report , which be due on 14 September . I thank my hon . friend and I look forward to be grill by he and his Committee in due course — at least , I think I do . perhaps I can assist he , first , on the very important dental report that his Committee publish . I be look through it myself this afternoon and I will be publish the response and send it to the Committee imminently . in relation to the dental plan , both the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , and I be look carefully into the need of community in rural and coastal area , as well as in more urban area , to understand not just the need but the answer that we can provide to help with urgent care and , importantly , preventive care , particularly for our child and vulnerable people in our society . last week another dentist in my constituency tell my constituent that they be no long able to provide NHS service . these people have literally nowhere else to go nearby . I want to come back to what my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) ask about the underspend , because we have a meeting with the ICB and it be specifically tell that the ringfence be be disapplie . do the Secretary of State agree that that money should be spend on dental service and that that instruction should be give by she today ? I agree , and that be why NHS England have provide guidance , as I set out early . I welcome the guidance that icb have receive . Cornwall ICB have commit to ringfence money for dentistry next year , but the truth be that , before it take on that commitment , £ 4 . 5 million for unmet unit of dental activity be return to NHS England . what can the Secretary of State do to ensure that Cornwall get the money that be intend for Cornwall to deliver NHS dentistry ? a theme be emerge of underspend in dental work , which be one of the thing that the ministerial team and I be look at . NHS England emphasise in its guidance to icb that the funding should be ringfence . I very much understand the pressure that my hon . friend and other south - west Members have be raise over many month on the care that their constituent be get . to ease pressure in the south - west , NHS England have commission additional urgent dental care appointment that people can access through NHS 111 . I call the shadow Minister . I begin by welcome the Secretary of State and her Ministers to their post . last year , the Prime Minister pledge to restore NHS dentistry , include a specific promise to protect its budget , yet last month we learn that he will break that promise and allow icb to raid dentistry budget to fill the gap . labour have a plan for 700 , 000 extra appointment , supervise toothbrushing in school and a targeted dentistry recruitment scheme in leave - behind area . it be all fully fund by abolish non - dom tax status . we have a plan , but the Government ' s plan be four month overdue . where be it ? I thank the hon . Lady for her warm welcome . I look forward to discuss these matter with she over the Dispatch Box . over the weekend , I be rather pleased to see the Leader of the Opposition ' s damascene conversion to the conservative cause . as the shadow Secretary of State be on his world tour investigate what other health system be do , the Labour party may wish to bear in mind the word of wisdom from the great lady herself : " the problem with socialism be that at some point you run out of other people ' s money . " Future Pandemic Preparedness what recent step she have take to help prepare for a future pandemic . lesson from covid - 19 have be incorporate into our planning for any future pandemic across a range of area . that include the need to prepare for infection through all five route of transmission , and for the health and social care sector to have flexible capability that can adapt to a range of health threat . my hon . friend may have hear that news be emerge from China of yet another respiratory disease spread through that country . what mechanism be in place to learn from the covid inquiry when it finish its work , so that if mistake be make , we do not make they again in the event that , God forbid , we have another pandemic ? first , early indication show that the respiratory illness in China be likely to be due to increase level of endemic infection . these be normal infection but at a high level . secondly , we be not wait for the covid inquiry before we implement lesson learn . one of the key change we have already make be the introduction of the UK Health Security Agency , which carry out surveillance on both national and international threat . a good example of its work be last year ' s strep a outbreak , which it manage and contain very well . this year , the identification of a new covid variant — not a variant of concern — mean we bring forward our autumn vaccination roll - out . for all of we who lose love one , covid - 19 be still very raw . I have be follow the covid inquiry , and two recommendation have so far come forward . the first be that the lockdown should have be early , and the second be that those with covid should not have be send to care home — covid go through care home and cast death everywhere . have the Minister take those two lesson on board ? I know the hon . Gentleman have a personal loss to covid , and he be absolutely right to highlight those lesson learn . we be learn lesson , but each pandemic or increase in infection be different . it may have be appropriate to have lockdown for covid - 19 , but lockdown may not be appropriate for other infection , such as strep A or other respiratory illness . we set up the ukhsa to provide expert advice . we be learn lesson from the covid inquiry , and we be already take action . hospital patient : discharge into Social Care what progress her Department have make on discharge patient from hospital and move they into social care . when someone no long need to be in hospital , it be well for they and well for the NHS for they to go home . that be why we have be work hard to reduce delayed discharge , and we have be make good progress . in England , delay discharge be down 13 % since January , mean thousand few people wait in hospital and free up nearly 2 , 000 hospital bed every day . in my constituency of North East Fife , an average of 14 % of social care and social work role be fill when first advertise , but yesterday the Home Secretary announce plan to make it hard to recruit care worker from overseas . what assessment have the Minister make of the effect of that announcement on hospital ' ability to discharge patient and free up hospital bed for those who need they ? the hon . member refer to yesterday ' s announcement on migration . first , I be very grateful to all the international worker who come here to help in our health and social care system and to care for our love one . clearly , we must get the balance right between migration and make sure that our health and care system have the workforce that it need . that be what we be do , both with the migration change announce yesterday and with our reform to the social care workforce to ensure that work in social care be appeal to home - grow talent . I call the shadow Minister . thank to their own internal chaos , the Conservatives have utterly fail in their promise at the last general election to fix the crisis in social care once and for all . we now have over 150 , 000 care vacancy and 390 , 000 care staff leave their job each year , mean that 60 % of patient in England who be fit for discharge be be keep in hospital each day . will the Minister therefore back Labour ' s plan to deliver a fair pay agreement , with well term , condition , training and pay , to ensure that we have the staff require to care for all those who need it ? labour really have not get a leg to stand on when it come to social care reform . they do not do anything the last time they be in government , and they still do not have a plan for social care . in government , we be reform social care career — [ interruption . ] if the hon . Lady will take a look at what we be do , we be introduce a new career structure for people work in social care , introduce new qualification and invest in training for social care . we be do what need to be do to ensure that social care as a career work for UK worker . [ interruption . ] order . you win ' t get your turn if you shout from there . Winter Pressure on NHS Services what step her Department be take to reduce pressure on NHS service in winter 2023 - 24 . we know that winter be hard for the NHS , as it be for other health system . that be why we start plan for this winter early than ever before — back in January , when we publish our urgent and emergency care recovery plan , which fund more bed and new ambulance for our NHS , fund more social care in our community , join up care , and make the most of technology , so that more people can get the care they need when and where they most need it . two accident and emergency department serve patient in Hornsey and Wood Green . one be now serve double the number of visit by patient and be buckling under the pressure ; and the other have see 4 , 000 extra patient this year compare with last . what be the Government go to do about overcrowding in accident and emergency ? the hon . member be right that our hospital be busy ; we be see more patient in A & Es . that be why we be do two thing with our work on urgent and emergency care . one be provide more capacity — more hospital bed , more hour of ambulance on the road , and more capacity in social care to help with discharge . we be also do thing differently by see more people out of hospital , avoid people come to hospital unnecessarily , and provide more care at home ; for instance , our 10 , 000 " hospital at home " bed be help people recover at home , which be well for they and well for the system . I know the considerable work the Department and NHS England have do prepare for winter . give the importance of the NHS workforce , who do such an incredible job , and note that there be still a few month to go , will the Minister update the House on the delivery of our manifesto commitment for an additional 50 , 000 nurse ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the excellent work he do as a Health Minister . it be a real pleasure to work alongside he and see what a difference he make for our constituent across the country . he ask a very good question about the work we be do to increase the capacity of the NHS and ensure that it have the workforce it need , include by deliver on our manifesto commitment to 50 , 000 more nurse for the NHS , which we have achieve . one way the Minister could help Harrow ' s health service be well prepare for this winter and future winter would be to invest in new intensive care bed at Northwick Park Hospital , which serve my constituent . give that the Government have be tell repeatedly that their promise 40 new hospital be about as real as the Prime Minister ' s meat tax , why do Ministers not invest in a hospital that actually exist and provide a new purpose - build intensive care facility at Northwick Park Hospital ? I assure the hon . member that we be invest in the national health service and , in particular , support it to prepare for this winter , ensure there be more capacity in the system . there will be 5 , 000 more bed in hospital around the country this winter , as well as 800 new ambulance on the road . but we be also do thing differently . the future of healthcare be not just about hospital , but about care for more people out of hospital . for instance , we be invest in proactive care , so that in every neighbourhood , the people who be more likely to go into hospital be know and reach out to , and the care be available for they . that be one of the thing we be do to ensure that people receive care when and where they need it . Sleaford and North Hykeham be a beautiful rural constituency , but live in a rural area mean people be far from specialist medical service , which be a particular challenge in the winter month when the road can be difficult to travel on . as the winter approach , what be the Minister do to ensure that constituent in rural area be well look after ? my hon . friend make a very important point about the additional challenge in rural area . I want to ensure that this winter people get care when they need it and get it fast . we be already see progress on that . for instance , we be invest in make sure there be more ambulance hour on the road , and we be see ambulance get to people quick — in fact , this October , they get to people 20 minute fast than last October . ambulance handover delay be reduce and we be already see progress in A & E , where people be be see fast , too . I call the shadow Minister . under the last Labour Government , there be no winter crisis . under the Tories , we have go from no winter crisis , to an annual crisis , to a crisis all year around . rather than tackle the crisis at source , this Government have only stick - plaster solution for a few month at a time . how will patient know that a winter crisis have be avoid if problem persist into the spring ? I be really sorry , but the hon . member ' s memory appear to be very short . I be work in healthcare when there be a Labour Government and I remember very well problem for the NHS during winter . she do not even need to look back into the past ; she can look at the labour - run NHS in Wales , where they be have so much difficulty with A & E performance that they even fudge the figure and hide a whole load of patient so people would not notice what be go on . vaping : young People what step she be take to help reduce vaping by young people . the hon . Lady raise such an important question on a subject that be dear to both our heart . we all know it be an offence to sell vape to child under 18 , yet one in five child try a vape in 2023 alone and the number try vape have triple in the last three year . we know the industry be target child , quite cynically . that be unacceptable . our tobacco and vape Bill will restrict the appeal and availability of vape to child , and we be consult on that right now . as the Minister rightly say , under - age vaping have increase by 50 % in just the past three year . minister have the chance to stop this trend two year ago , during the passage of the Health and Care Act 2022 , when Labour table an amendment to prohibit brand that appeal to child , but Ministers would not support it and Conservative Members vote it down . do the Minister regret the fact that the Government do not act soon ? when will the plan new legislation be bring to the House ? the consultation be welcome , but there be consensus on the issue and action be urgently need . the hon . Lady know full well that make decision that change legislation require consultation . that be both the convention and the requirement . the Government have bring forward the consultation as soon as possible . it will close tomorrow and we will introduce legislation as soon as possible in the new year . I think the hon . Lady will find that that legislation really will tackle the problem of the cynical targeting of child . Primary care : Patient Access what step she be take to improve patient access to primary care . the hon . Gentleman will be pleased to know that , with huge thank to all the superb GPs and health team , our manifesto commitment for 50 million more general practice appointment a year compare with 2019 have now be deliver . our primary care recovery plan be address access challenge by tackle the 8 am rush for appointment , cut bureaucracy for GPs and , of course , expand community pharmacy service . I thank the Minister for her answer , but let I correct she . since 2014 , the number of GP practice in Bedford and Kempston have decrease from 18 to 11 ; there be few doctor , while the patient list have increase ; and the number of patient per qualified GP now stand at 2 , 812 , which be a rise of 60 % . will the Minister apologise to GPs and to my constituent , who face a daily struggle to access a gp because her Government have decimate NHS primary care service ? the hon . Gentleman will appreciate that 50 million more appointment between 2019 and now be a fantastic increase . there be just under 4 , 000 new GPs since 2019 , and the hon . Gentleman will appreciate that through the post - covid recovery plan to improve access we have say to GP practice that they should provide urgent appointment on the same day and for every patient within two week . that have significantly improve access for patient , and GP appointment be now be hugely support by access to community first , our flagship programme to improve healthcare throughout the country . I be incredibly grateful for the significant increase in the number of GP appointment offer to resident in my constituency . however , last week Aspire announce that it wish to close the Lower Stoke surgery on the Hoo peninsula , where the council propose to build thousand of home . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss how I can work far with the integrate care board ? I have be try over a number of year now to work with the ICB so that it can come up with a plan for how it will deliver much - need service , so I would be very grateful for the Minister ' s help . I be of course always delight to meet my hon . friend to talk about issue in her constituency . I reiterate that 50 million more GP appointment be brilliant news . our flagship Pharmacy First programme will mean that more low - level infection and problem — such as sinusitis , oral contraception , impetigo and various other condition — can be treat by community pharmacist at great convenience to patient , and it will expand GPs ' ability to deal with more complex problem . all these thing be alleviate the pressure on primary care and be very good news right across the country . a primary care walk - in facility at Warren Farm in my constituency face closure due to the presence of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . the proposal to close the service will mean that service be relocate away from resident who need they . what be the Minister do to fund the investigation and removal of RAAC in health facility while make sure that community can still access the healthcare that they so desperately need ? I be incredibly sympathetic to the hon . Lady ' s constituent . the issue of RAAC be one that the Government be determined to resolve . there have be a £ 698 million programme of new funding to eradicate RAAC from the healthcare system , and that work be under way . she will appreciate that it be for integrated care board to ensure that the provision be there for all patient but , if she should need help with contact or negotiate with her ICB , I will be delighted to help she . a recent report highlight the fact that in September there be 15 , 000 miss GP appointment in Cornwall . that be 15 , 000 appointment that could have go to people desperately wait to see their gp . it be happen month after month . do the Minister agree that that be completely unacceptable , and can she highlight what step the Government will take to address the issue ? my hon . friend be right ; it be appal that people book an appointment and then do not show up . in many GP surgery now they post the number of patient who do not turn up for their appointment and urge people to make the effort to cancel . as part of our access to primary care , we be create digital tool so that GP surgery can notify patient that they have an upcoming appointment and say , " if you don ' t need it , press here and it will cancel the appointment . " measure such as that make it easy for people to cancel , but he be quite right that it be incumbent on we all , if we book that appointment , to turn up for it . Health Inequalities what fund her Department be provide to help tackle health inequality in Essex . what step she be take to help reduce health inequality . I be pleased to reiterate to my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) that Essex be receive funding from the National Institute for Health and Care Research , which be fund by the Department of Health and Social Care , to promote research into health inequality and support well health outcome for her constituent and all resident in Essex . I thank the Secretary of State for her response and welcome she to her new role ; it be a real pleasure to see she in her position today . my Witham constituent have one of the high patient - gp ratio in the country . that bring many challenge in access the NHS , from primary care to dentistry , social care and hospital appointment , some of which have be exacerbate by industrial action . will she give an update on the work she be lead to address some of those issue and will she support my work and campaign locally to get a new primary health centre in Witham town ? I thank my right hon . friend very much for her kind word . she will remember how much I enjoy sit on the Front Bench alongside she when we be in the Home Office . in term of her work in Essex , she be a formidable campaigner and she will know that the decision on such a healthcare centre lie with her integrate care board , to which the Government have give some £ 183 million of capital funding between 2022 and 2025 . I be sure she will make a compelling case to the ICB for such a centre in her constituency . interestingly , the Mid and South Essex integrate care board be one of seven site receive additional support and funding from NHS England to address health inequality , and I know she will pay close attention to how that be spend . there be multiple warning from expert such as Professor Sir Michael Marmot of the widen health inequality that start in 2015 . Covid just expose and amplify those inequality , so that in the north there be 17 % more death , or more than 2 , 500 avoidable death . while I welcome the new Health Secretary to her post and I welcome her announcement this morning , what else be she go to do to address in particular the socioeconomic inequality that drive those health inequality ? I thank the hon . Lady for her welcome . have grow up in Lancashire myself , I very much understand why she be speak up on behalf of her constituent . there be many different way that we deal with this , but let I use a couple of headline point . first , we be increase the public health grant to local authority , provide more than £ 3 . 5 billion this year , so per capita public health grant allocation for the most deprived local authority be nearly two and a half time great than for the least deprived . there be also interesting work go on with family hub . indeed , the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , who have responsibility for start for life , be lead on that . the family hub and start for life programme will deliver a step change in outcome for baby , child and parent in 75 local authority in England with high deprivation . we believe strongly that if we can give the good start in life to our baby and child , it will bode extremely well for their future year . a report that be to be publish shortly by the all - party parliamentary group for diagnostic , which I chair , have highlight that community diagnostic centre be essential for tackle health inequality . I welcome my right hon . friend to her new role . will she honour her predecessor ' s commitment to meet the all - party group to discuss the benefit of diagnostic in general and the preventive role that they can play in reduce health inequality across the country ? not only be I delight to accept my hon . friend ' s kind invitation , but I be also extremely grateful for her work in that area . of course , we think that community diagnostic centre be an important and exciting part of healthcare in this country . we have 136 centre operational at the moment , and we know that they have provide 5 million additional test since July 2021 . that be the future and we very much support it . we know that socioeconomic inequality drive health inequality and that poverty increase adverse health effect . research by the Trussell Trust show that one in seven people face hunger across the UK because they simply do not have enough money . will the Secretary of State raise with her Cabinet colleague the Trussell Trust joint campaign with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation call for an essential guarantee in universal credit to ensure that the basic rate at least cover life ' s essential so as to ensure that people can afford essential such as food and heating and to mitigate against health inequality ? of course , conversation continue between Ministers across Government in term of help not just with health inequality but with inequality of opportunity . that be why I very much hope that the hon . Lady and her colleague will welcome the thoughtful focus that both the Chancellor and the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions have put into the back to work plan . we know that get people into work can have enormous benefit , not just financially but , importantly , for their wellbeing . the idea behind the back to work plan be that we do it by work with people to draw out their full potential and help they to lead healthy life . ehler - Danlos Syndromes and Hypermobility Spectrum Disorder if she will review the provision of health service for people live with ( a ) Ehlers - Danlos syndrome and ( b ) hypermobility spectrum disorder . we recognise that body - wide symptom associate with Ehlers - Danlos syndrome and hypermobility spectrum disorder can be disable and can affect all aspect of life . general rheumatology service , which support people with Ehlers - Danlos syndrome and hypermobility spectrum disorder , be locally commission by integrate care board , which be well place to make decision accord to local need . the major condition strategy will focus on six group of condition , include musculoskeletal disorder such as these syndrome and disorder . that be all very well , but I do not think that will convince my constituent or the one in 500 people who suffer from that awful disease . this wonderful talented group of people on the Treasury Bench obviously inhabit an alternate universe . my GP say that these day there be no training or research , and that we do not have the capacity to look into these thing . People with EDS have to be assess by uptrained GPs , but they be not there . our GP and medical service be on their knee . when will the Minister wake up to that fact ? with respect , the hon . Gentleman be as wrong as usual . NHS England be take forward work to improve the way in which service for rare disease be commission , put patient ' voice at the centre of service delivery and ensure co - ordinate access to specialist care , treatment , drug , social care , mental health and special educational support . we will continue to work to improve service in this area . Maternity Services what step she be take to improve maternity service . since 2021 , we have invest an additional £ 165 million a year to improve maternity neonatal care ; next year , that figure will rise to £ 186 million . that investment be lead to progress on outcome : stillbirth have reduce by 23 % , and neonatal mortality rate be down by 30 % . woman continue to be fail by maternity service across England , as have be highlight by a string of scandal include East Kent , Nottingham and Morecambe Bay . the Care Quality Commission ' s maternity inspection over the past year downgrade many maternity unit , brand two third of they as dangerously substandard and highlight shortage of staff , among other problem . what additional step be the Minister take to ensure that a woman can go into maternity service know that she and her baby will come out alive , and can she tell we whether the recommendation of the Kirkup and ockenden review have be fully implement ? the hon . Lady have touch on three inquiry . the ockenden inquiry cover the period from 2000 to 2019 , the Kirkup review cover the period from 2009 to 2020 and the Morecambe Bay inquiry cover the period from 2004 to 2013 , so the Labour Government be also responsible for part of all those period . we be introduce radical change . we be increase the number of midwife , which be up 14 % since 2010 , and the number of midwifery training place have increase by 3 , 650 . we have introduce the maternity disparity taskforce to improve outcome for those woman who face the poor outcome , and have also introduce a maternity support programme for those trust that do badly in CQC inspection — 32 trust be go through that improvement programme right now . those be some of the thing we be do to improve maternity service . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for birth trauma , I recently commission a survey of mum across the UK via Mumsnet on this issue . I be shock to discover that one in five mother be not be offer a six - week GP check post - birth . that mean that many woman with physical injury or mental health problem be unfortunately not be diagnose or offer support , which be very troubling . will my hon . friend include birth trauma in the future update to the woman ' s health strategy , and ensure that all mum receive a post - birth six - week check - up with their gp ? that check - up must include both the physical and mental health of the mum , not just focus on the baby . I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s work in this place . she will be pleased to know that we be roll out perinatal pelvic health service in every part of England , which should be in place by the end of March next year . in addition , we be roll out obstetric anal sphincter injury bundle , which my hon . friend raise in her debate on birth trauma ; those have the potential to reduce the number of tear by 20 % . she be absolutely right to be drive this issue forward . it will be cover in the woman ' s health strategy , but we be not wait for the second year : we be already make progress in this place . I call the shadow Minister . the Care Quality Commission now say that almost two third of England ' s maternity service be rate inadequate or require improvement in safety , up from 55 % last year . the Government have be tell time and time again to recruit more midwife , and to value midwife so that they do not want to leave the profession in the first place . as a result of ministerial failure , mother — especially those from black and ethnic minority group — do not get the safe , good - quality maternity care that they deserve . what be the Minister ' s plan to properly improve maternity care ? the hon . Lady may not have listen to my first answer . we have increase the number of midwife — it be up 14 % since 2010 — and increase the number of midwifery training place by 3 , 650 . we have also introduce a maternity support programme that be provide intensive support for the 32 trust that be go through it . the hon . Lady may want to speak to her ministerial colleague in Wales , where Labour run the health service , because Healthcare Inspectorate Wales recently issue an immediate improvement notice to Cardiff and Vale University Health Board for its maternity service . we will have to go a bit fast . access to Mental Health Services what step she be take to improve access to mental health service . we be improve mental health service , transform they with an extra £ 2 . 3 billion a year . we have already see some improvement in the delivery of those change from give mental health service parity of esteem with physical service . the Minister will know , because it cover her constituency as well , that the Sussex Partnership NHS Foundation Trust do vital work in mental health , but there simply be not the resource , and I be afraid that parrot about parity of esteem do not tackle the issue . wait time be 190 day for child and young people in her constituency and mine . I recently speak to a mother in Peacehaven whose son be wait for an attention deficit hyperactivity disorder diagnosis . his performance at school be in rapid decline , but because of the wait time he be not eligible for support in school via any education , health and care plan to start to turn thing around . what assurance can the Minister give my constituent , and indeed her constituent , that the wait time for mental health will come down and that resource will be give to these partnership , rather than just empty word ? the hon . member be absolutely right : we know that in Sussex we have high rate of mental health illness than in many other part of the country , with a 15 % increase in Sussex A & e attendance . he might not be aware of they , but multiple scheme be available in Sussex . health in Mind be offer psychological support to those suffer stress and anxiety , which can be self - refer . we have the Sussex mental health crisis line , now open 24 / 7 , which be access via the 111 service . we have mental health professional roll out the blue light triage service in Sussex , and we have the Brighton and Hove mental health rapid response service , open 24 / 7 , to which anyone can refer themselves urgently . perhaps if he look at some of the service provide locally , he will be able to reassure his constituent . the Minister mention the importance of parity of esteem , and she be quite right , but it be disappointing that the Government have a manifesto commitment in 2017 and 2019 to reform the Mental Health Act 1983 , which they have not fulfil , with no such Bill in the King ' s Speech . would the Minister agree with I that the issue that exist prior to 2017 in relation to the Mental Health Act still exist today with the disproportionate number of black and minority ethnic people be section under that Act , and people with learn disability and autism keep in inappropriate setting ? can she give any encouragement to those of we who want to see that reform , particularly in relation to the appointment of a mental health commissioner to oversee change to the Act and to advocate for the parity of esteem that she be look for ? it remain our intention to bring forward a mental health Bill when parliamentary time allow . we have the draft Mental Health Bill , which we have put through pre - legislative scrutiny . we be look at the report from the Joint Committee and will be respond to that shortly . cost of living : impact on Mental Health what recent assessment she have make of the potential impact of increase in the cost of live on mental health . we be acutely aware of the impact that the cost of living have on mental health , which be why this Conservative Government spend over £ 350 billion during the pandemic on protect people ' s job and over £ 60 billion during the recent cost of living pressure to pay for their energy bill . the Centre for Mental Health , the British Psychological Society and other have raise serious concern about the UK Government ' s new back to work plan , warn that the increase threat of apply benefit sanction or coerce people into jobseeke will be detrimental to claimant struggle with their mental health . do the Minister share my concern about this , and have she make any representation to her Cabinet colleague about the mental health impact of these measure ? that be the difference between the SNP and the Conservatives : we have aspiration for people , and we absolutely want to support people with mental health problem and illness to get into work . they should have the same opportunity to get into work , and not just to get a job , but to get a good job and get a career . if we look at its website , Mind support people get into work , say that it be not just a source of income , but provide a " sense of identity " and " structure " as well as support , confidence and ambition . a recent study by Magic Breakfast and the British Nutrition Foundation find that eat a healthy breakfast can improve the nutritional intake of the most vulnerable child , improve their physical and cognitive development and their mental health . will my hon . friend work with colleague in the Department for Education to consider expand school breakfast provision in order to reduce the health impact of child food insecurity ? we want a more cross - Government approach to mental health provision , and that be why in our suicide prevention strategy we be work with multiple department . my hon . friend ask about support for nutrition in school , and I will certainly raise that with colleague in the Department for Education to see what more can be do . I welcome the Secretary of State to her new role . research by the Mental Health Foundation find that the cost of living crisis have leave a third of UK adult feel anxious , more than a quarter feeling stress , and almost one in 10 feeling hopeless . what representation have the Minister make to Cabinet colleague regard the impact of the cost of live crisis on health outcome since she take up her post ? I have outline some of the financial support that the Government have give during covid and the cost of living pressure . I also point to scheme that the Treasury have roll out , such as the Breathing Space programme , which see enforcement action from creditor halt , and interest freeze for people with problem debt who be experience mental health issue , and cover a 60 - day period . that be the sort of practical help that this Government be give to people . we now move to topical question . we be run late because question have be too long , as have answer . I often make this plea . in any case , member should not be read their question — question be not mean to be read ; they be mean to be question . can everybody please cut out those bit that say their constituency be beautiful , for example , and just ask a question ? we all believe that our constituency be beautiful , and none more so than mine . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . my priority as Secretary of State be to reform our NHS and social care system to make it fast , simple and fair . since my appointment , we be make progress . to make our system fast , we have hit our manifesto target to recruit and retain 50 , 000 more nurse for our NHS , and to deliver 50 million more GP appointment , achieve both commitment month ahead of time . we have make an offer to health union that I hope will end the consultant ' strike , which have disrupt care for the public and put a strain on staff . to make our system simple , we have announce Pharmacy First , which will make it quick and easy for million of people to access healthcare on the high street . to make our system fair , we have agree a deal with pharmaceutical company that will save the NHS £ 14 billion in medicine cost and give patient access to more life - save treatment . the NHS be one of the reason I come into politic — [ interruption . ] I know Labour Members do not like to hear that , but I look forward to work with patient and staff across the country — [ interruption . ] order . I do not need any help , thank you . the Secretary of State have answer the first question at length . I be sure that mean she will answer the other question much more briefly . People with disability and serious health condition already have high living cost , and the proposal in the work capability assessment activity and descriptor consultation will mean that if they be reassess they will lose £ 390 a month . I appreciate that the Secretary of State be new to her role , but will she commit as a priority to take this up and consult Cabinet colleague , to ensure that people who be disabled and have serious health condition be not push even far into dire poverty ? as I say early , careful thought have go into the announcement that be make in the autumn statement , and of course I will work with the Secretary of State and the Chancellor to ensure that the commitment we already have to people live with disability be maintain , and that we have their wellbeing at the heart of all our policy making . the Secretary of State ' s predecessor take a strong interest in the death that take place in the Essex mental health trust , and a statutory inquiry be now take place . will she meet I and our Essex colleague , and the family , to discuss that important inquiry , so that they can have justice for the love one they have lose ? I would be very pleased to meet my right hon . friend , the family and other Essex mps to discuss that important inquiry . I call the shadow spokesman . with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , I welcome the Secretary of State and the new member of her Front - Bench team to their role . I be honour myself to stand at the Dispatch Box today for the first time on behalf of the shadow Secretary of State for Health , my hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , who be currently in Australia explore international good practice in healthcare . talk of good practice , on this Government ' s watch , people with suspect breast cancer be not get it . the two - week target from GP referral to a first consultant appointment for breast cancer have not be meet since March 2020 . I know from my own experience of breast cancer that the waiting be terrify , wonder whether it have be leave too late and the cancer have become incurable . how much long will patient have to wait before the Government can meet their own target and deliver the timely care that patient need and deserve ? I genuinely thank the hon . Lady for her warm welcome , and indeed I welcome she to her first outing at the Dispatch Box . as she be describe where the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) be , I have image of " I ' m a celebrity … get I out of here ! " sadly for citizen in Wales , they be experience what it be like to live under a healthcare system run by Labour , and they might fully agree with that sentiment . the hon . Lady raise the important issue of breast cancer , and the NHS have an ambition to diagnose 75 % of cancer as stage 1 or 2 by 2028 . in January last year we provide £ 10 million of funding for 28 new breast screening unit and nearly 60 life - save upgrade to service in the area where they be most need , because we understand our constituent ' concern and also their determination that we continue to improve cancer survival rate . unfortunately , the reality be that cancer referral have only get bad with the Conservatives in government . in September 2023 , only 74 % of urgent cancer referral to a consultant meet that two - week target . that be the second - low rate for two - week referral since 2009 . when can the public expect this performance to improve ? we have in fact make progress by deliver record number of urgent cancer check , and level of first treatment follow an urgent cancer referral have be consistently above pre - pandemic level , with activity in September stand at 108 % of pre - pandemic level on a per working day basis . some six month ago , the dentist base at Firthmoor community centre , serve 8 , 000 of my constituent , hand back its contract to the integrate care board . I be shock last week to learn that the ICB have still not commence the tender process to replace that provision . what advice can the Minister give I to ensure that our ICB be do what it need to do ? my hon . friend have already raise this issue with I several time in the almost two week I have be in this post , so he be do a great job , and he be right to raise it . tender exercise for NHS dentistry be bind by current procurement law , but I be happy to meet he to discuss how much fast we can go to get this sort out . Brexit break Britain and it be continue to wreak havoc on supply chain . the shortage of ADHD medication be now set to drag on into next spring . the shortage have see 70 % of patient force to ration their supply of ADHD drug , with 62 % report an increase in suicidal thought . what step be the Minister take to ensure that supply of these vital medication be reach pharmacy across the UK ? the shortage of ADHD medication be a global issue ; it be not Brexit - relate . we be hope to have some positive news over the come week . my local practice , on Heath Lane in Earl Shilton , release its " do not attend " figure . between 20 November and 24 November , 69 appointment — include 36 GP appointment and 28 nursing appointment — be miss . that be 12 hour lose in five day . if that be happen up and down Hinckley and Bosworth and across the country , that be thousand of hour be miss . I know that the Government be keen to see more on datum , so will they consider statemente patient on how much miss appointment cost , because clinically that would make a big difference to the awareness of what people be cash out on ? may I thank my hon . friend for bring his professional expertise to the Chamber ? of course , minimise " do not attend " be a critical part of ensure that clinical time be optimise , and I will take his suggestion away and mull it over . I understand that pathology staffing level at Royal Blackburn Hospital have not be review for 15 year and the workload be up 300 % . the national deficit in pathology be a tick time bomb , as hospital be unable to offer surgical and emergency service . what step be the Minister take to address recruitment and ensure that staff and patient be safe ? I understand the hon . Lady ' s concern . as she know , we share a local NHS hospital trust . I be very keen to work with she on this issue . of course , this Government be the first to introduce a long - term workforce plan for the NHS , which will deliver thousand more clinician for a range of service across the NHS in the year to come . last month , the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence say that Kaftrio , Orkambi and Symkevi be effective treatment against cystic fibrosis , but be too expensive to put on the NHS ' s list . CF be a death sentence , so what can the Secretary of State do to make sure that this medication be put on the shelf to save thousand of life in the future ? my hon . friend make a very important point . NICE have yet to publish its final guidance and be continue to work with all party to address the issue raise in the draft guidance . the Government encourage manufacturer to work with NICE in set a price that represent value for the NHS . I can assure the House that exist and new patient who be start on treatment while the NICE evaluation be ongoing will have access after it have issue its final recommendation , irrespective of the outcome . as we know , there be strong link between financial difficulty , mental health and suicide . the poor 10 % be twice as likely to die from suicide than the wealthy 10 % . with so many people struggle to make end meet , how be the Minister go to ensure that those seek financial support get access to mental health support , and that those seek mental health support get access to help with their finance ? may I pay tribute to the hon . Lady for her work on the all - party parliamentary group on suicide and self - harm prevention ? she know that financial difficulty be a priority area in the suicide prevention strategy , because we know it be a high risk factor . that be why suicide be now everyone ' s business — not just the Department of Health and Social Care , but our colleague at the Department for Work and Pensions , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and all Government Departments . anyone who have financial stress and pressure will be give support to reduce their risk of suicide . my constituent Dan Archer run the highly successful Visiting Angels care agency , which have an annual staff turnover rate of just 13 % , compare with an industry average of 60 % . the secret to his success be very straightforward : pay decent wage , invest in training , value staff and prioritise client satisfaction . as a consequence , an enormous amount of money be save on recruitment and invest into training and retention instead . would the Minister meet my constituent to learn more about the success of Visiting Angels and how it can be share more widely to help solve the shortage of worker in the care sector ? order . can member please cut their question in half ? otherwise , I will have to stop this question session and people will not get a chance at all . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend ' s constituent . what the employer do be really important for retention and recruitment of adult social care staff , along with our ambitious workforce reform for the care workforce . the Health Secretary declare at the weekend that the Government will miss their target to cut NHS waiting time if doctor strike to defend their pay and condition , but she seem to forget that since the Tories take power in 2010 , waiting list for hospital treatment be up , a & E waiting time be up , cancer referral time be up and ambulance response time be up . the only thing that have fall be not wait time ; it be public confidence in the Government . will the Minister finally admit that the threat to waiting time target be not strike doctor , but her party be in government ? I assume from the hon . Gentleman ' s question that he fully support our effort to get consultant back into hospital as well as junior doctor and doctor in training . it be all very well to sit there comment , but we on the Government side of the House be work with doctor to try to help they look after the NHS for we all . while I recognise that money do not grow on tree , neither do tooth . can my right hon . friend advise I of how quickly my North Devon constituent will be able to see the nhs dentist they so desperately need ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : there be a lot more that we can do . we be work at pace to see what announcement we can make on the dental recovery plan as soon as possible . in the meantime , she will be aware that , in the south - west , NHS England have commission additional urgent dental care appointment that people can access via NHS 111 . last week , the former Health Secretary admit at the covid inquiry that sick pay across the UK be " far too low " . it be far low than the european average and encourage people to go to work when they should be get well . do the Secretary of State agree with her predecessor ? what discussion will she have with her Cabinet colleague to improve the inadequate sick pay system ? I will not comment on evidence from the covid inquiry , give that it be an independent inquiry . however , on the general principle of encourage people back into work , we have the plan set out by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions and the Chancellor at the autumn statement . we want to encourage people back into work and to support they when they fall ill and need help from the state . last year , I ask the Government to show I the money with respect to £ 118 million of long - await capital funding for south Essex hospital . with £ 8 million now deliver and the other £ 110 million now confirm to be on its way , will the Secretary of State please come with I to Southend Hospital and see how that vital money will transform care in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea ? I will be delighted to visit that hospital with my hon . friend — I suspect that I will be visit a lot of hospital . be the Secretary of State consult about yesterday ' s announcement by the Home Secretary ? if she be , do she agree with he that it will have no impact on overseas recruitment , or do she hear the fear of care provider about its consequence ? yes , I be . what be more , we look carefully at the figure in relation to overseas care worker . we be grateful to all international people who work in our NHS and our care system , but we need to tackle the migration rate , which be too high . the package present yesterday by the Government be a thoughtful and careful one to tackle legal migration . Stroud Maternity Hospital be do a great job , but the post - natal bed be still not open . we have be chase a ministerial meeting about that for some time . will my hon . friend meet I and the Gloucestershire NHS scrutiny chair , Andrew Gravells , to discuss the issue ? we think that we need some help with the Care Quality Commission . I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that specific issue . we be do a piece of work on a capital survey of all maternity unit as well as work with the CQC on how capital infrastructure — bed and so forth — be impact on maternity performance . attention deficit hyperactivity disorder medication be essential to many people . in response to my write question last month , the Department outline " disruption to the supply " , which be expect to " resolve in early 2024 " . how have the Government allow that to happen ? what plan do the Department have to prevent a similar situation from occur in the future ? as I say in an early response , there be a global shortage of ADHD medication . as we set out in our response to her write question , we expect that to be resolve shortly . lobular breast cancer treatment must be improve . will the Minister meet my constituent and I to discuss how ? yes . excellent — that be how to do it . cancer remain the lead cause of death by disease in child and young people , with nearly 500 die every single year , yet the Government continue to reject call for a dedicated child ' s cancer plan . why be that ? as the hon . member know , cancer will be part of the Government ' s long - term strategy for disease . improve cancer treatment wait time be a top priority for the Government , with a key focus on the elective care recovery plan back by an additional £ 8 billion in revenue funding across the spending review period . in response to a write question that I submit , I be tell that the Department of Health and Social Care hold no central datum for diagnosis and treatment of those with eat disorder and have no idea how many mental health nurse appointment be available in GP surgery , despite all the funding . do Ministers agree that that be a disgrace ? NHS England hold some of that datum . central datum be one of the thing that we be introduce right now to improve our access to datum . it make it difficult to plan service when we do not have that dataset , but we be work to resolve that as quickly as we can . farmer face many serious mental health challenge , include the financial precipice that this Government have lead they to . accord to the Farm Safety Foundation , 95 % of young farmer in this country identify poor mental health as their big hide challenge . will the Minister meet I and the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to discuss how we can well support farmer and farm worker to develop robust mental health strategy ? I attend the National Farmers Union session in Westminster just before the launch of our suicide prevention strategy . we recognise that isolation and loneliness in rural community be an issue . I be happy to meet any hon . member who wish to discuss how we can well support farmer , improve their mental health and reduce suicide rate . will the primary care Minister join I in congratulate the Conservative Mayor of Bedford borough for propose council money to invest in primary care facility in Great Barford , Wootton , Wixams and Kempston ? will she condemn Labour and liberal Democrat council for vote it down ? I be glad that my hon . friend have raise this issue . he be absolutely right ; in local authority we need mayor and integrate care board support primary care and not listen to the Opposition , who talk it down the whole time . the 50 million more GP appointment be something to celebrate . give that obesity now cost the NHS and our economy much more than smoking , why do the Secretary of State support a total ban on smoking but think that measure to tackle obesity be nannyish ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a completely artificial barrier . smoking be totally preventable ; it be the cause of one in four cancer and 75 , 000 death . it be unbelievably appalling . obesity be a complex area and one that the Government be focus on . we need to tackle it , but it be entirely different . would the Health Secretary please agree to meet I to discuss improve access to GPs and dentist in Bracknell Forest and Wokingham borough ? I will ; it would be a pleasure . my constituent Air Marshal Dr David Walker , an inspirational leader and academic , sadly die of glioblastoma in June . when diagnose , he and his wife Catherine be shock to learn of the woefully low funding for brain and other less survivable cancer and establish the charity the right to hope with Cancer . will the Minister show the courage and leadership so epitomise by the life of Air Marshal Walker , and properly resource and fund less survivable cancer , so that everyone live with cancer have some sort of hope ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . my 23 - year - old constituent Laura Nuttall , from Barrowford , die in May , five year after be diagnose with a glioblastoma , have be give just a year to live . before her diagnosis , Laura do work experience in my parliamentary and constituency office . she be one of the most remarkable people I have ever meet . as I get up to speed in my new ministerial role , he can rest assure that I will make as much progress as possible in this area . it be a personal priority to I . order . we have go considerably over time because I have endeavour to ensure that everyone whose name be on the Order Paper have have a chance either in substantive question or in topical question to ask question on these important subject on behalf of their constituent . again , I appeal to member : they be not mean to read question , they should just ask they . it be not mean to be a speech , and it be certainly not mean to be draft for Twitter or Instagram . it should be a question to the Minister . let we hope for some improvement . I apologise to the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) for keep he wait to ask his urgent question . Middle East : UK Military Deployments ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence to make a statement on UK military deployment to the middle east . since Hamas ' s horrendous attack on Israel on 7 October , we have increase our military presence in the region . this be to support contingency planning , monitor the evolve situation , and be ready to react and respond . as the right hon . Gentleman will know , I deploy a Royal Navy task group to the eastern Mediterranean , include RFA Lyme Bay and RFA Argus , three Merlin helicopter and a company of Royal Marines as a contingency measure . HMS Diamond be sail through the Red sea to provide maritime security . HMS Lancaster be already in the middle east . this morning , I provide a write ministerial statement notify the House that unarmed military surveillance flight will begin in support of hostage rescue . the UK Government have be work with partner across the region to secure the release of hostage , include british national who have be kidnap . I will move heaven and earth to bring our hostage home . the UK Ministry of Defence will conduct surveillance flight over the eastern Mediterranean , include operate in airspace over Israel and Gaza . the surveillance aircraft will be unmanned . they do not have a combat role and will be task solely to locate hostage . only information relate to hostage rescue will be pass to the relevant authority responsible for those rescue . the MOD be work on land , air and maritime route to deliver urgently need humanitarian aid . four RAF flight carry over 74 tonne of aid have land in Egypt . I be consider whether RFA Argus and RFA Lyme Bay can support medical and humanitarian aid provision , give that their original purpose be potentially to take non - combatant out of the area . the MOD routinely deploy significant number of military personnel in the wide middle east for operation such as counter - daesh , training , maritime security and other reason . there be currently a force lay down across the region of nearly 2 , 500 military personnel . later this week , the Chief of the Defence Staff and I be visit sovereign base area , the Republic of Cyprus , the Occupied Palestinian Territories and Israel . I will , of course , report back to the House after that visit . our objective include to demonstrate and reaffirm the UK ' s continued support for Israel , while continue to press for adherence to international humanitarian law ; to emphasise the importance the UK place on humanitarian aid reach Gaza ; to facilitate a deep understanding of Israel ' s plan next step in Gaza now that the current pause have end , and activity along the northern border ; and to reaffirm the United Kingdom ' s continued belief in a two - state solution and support for a viable and sovereign palestinian state alongside a safe and secure Israel . across the House , we welcome last week ' s pause in fighting and we be all deeply concerned about its restarting . it be a glimmer of light in the recent dark day to see hostage reunite with family , aid reach desperate Palestinians and diplomacy extend the initial pause . there can only be the long - term settlement the Secretary of State talk about if Hamas can not carry out a terror attack again like that on 7 October , but the military operation in north Gaza can not be repeat in the same way in the south . far too many innocent civilian have be kill . as the US Defence Secretary say : " you can only win in urban warfare by protect civilian . " Israel must take all step to protect civilian , meet the duty of international law and secure flow of aid into Gaza . I welcome the Secretary of State to the Dispatch Box for his first statement , particularly as this week mark 100 day in the job . the UK have an important role to play to strengthen regional stability in the middle east . that be why the Leader of the Opposition have meet and speak with leader in the region , include from Jordan , Palestine , Israel and Qatar . that be why the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , have visit the region twice in recent week , and that be why we welcome the initial deployment of UK force on 13 October . they will do the job with total professionalism , and we thank they for that . since then , however — accord to an answer give to I by the Secretary of State — the total number of UK personnel have rise to at least 4 , 500 , and the escalation risk have rise as well . how will the Secretary of State ensure that UK surveillance flight support hostage rescue and not israeli operation ? how many british hostage remain in Gaza ? how will the UK Navy ship that the Secretary of State have deploy protect commercial shipping route ? what action be the Secretary of State take to boost protection for UK personnel , especially those at joint ally basis ? what be he do to open up the maritime route for humanitarian aid that he have tell we about today ? finally , how many more RAF aid flight will take off this month to get much - need aid into Gaza as the winter cold set in ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I should just say that unarmed but not necessarily unmanned aircraft — initially , the Shadow R1 — be take on the task of look for the hostage . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the information flow ; I can reassure the House that only the United Kingdom will have the ability to provide that information , and that be how we will ensure that it be use for the appropriate purpose . he ask about the number of hostage ; the United Kingdom have not confirm exact number , partly because it be still unclear whether some may have die in the original 7 October event or in subsequent event , and whether some may be be hold . we do not want to cause additional stress , but we know that there be still british hostage be hold . the right hon . Gentleman ask about protect the ship . they be , of course , extremely capable ship — the last ship to be deploy , HMS Diamond , be capable of look after herself , one might say — and we be benefit from a great deal of co - operation with ally in the region to assist with that force protection . the right hon . Gentleman also ask about british force in the wide region who may be in , for example , Syria or Iraq . again , we take their force protection very seriously . as the right hon . Gentleman will understand , I can not go into operational specific , but we keep it under constant review . lastly , the right hon . Gentleman ask about humanitarian aid . this country have provide £ 60 million - worth of additional aid make available for Palestinians , and four flight have take off so far . member on both side of the House will realise that the problem be not just provide the aid but get it into Gaza . the Rafah crossing present a considerable barrier to that , for all sort of security reason . I be actively look at different route , and the right hon . Gentleman will understand that that be one of the reason I be go to the region this week . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s answer , include his confirmation that , as have be report , the Shadow R1 be be deploy . I note that the intention be to use a range of surveillance aircraft . will the Secretary of State tell we what other asset he be intend to use ? give the significant tasking , the threat to shipping and the ongoing commitment to , for example , Operation Shader , will he comment on what be be deprioritise to allow this mission to take place ? finally , in view of the recent threat to the Rivet Joint aircraft — I know that there be defensive aid suite on board — will he confirm that due consideration be be give to the protection of crew , give all the likely threat in the area and the presence of Iran ? my hon . friend will know that we have a number of capability for intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance . the Rivet Joint , which he mention , have be involve in carry out mission elsewhere , and — as I think he hint — have attract unprofessional behaviour from other air force . we have the p - 8 available as well , along with the Shadow r1 and other . exactly which aircraft and machinery perform these role will depend on operational circumstance , but I can confirm that we have not have to pull resource away from other urgent work to provide this cover . it be important to repeat the denunciation of the death cult know as Hamas . give the war of attrition that be now take place in south Gaza , let I reiterate from the SNP bench the call for an immediate ceasefire , because I be afraid that a pause will not suffice . the view from here , at least , be that without a ceasefire we will see yet another graveyard from which fundamentalism will rise . let I ask a specific question . the Secretary of State mention reconnaissance mission look , rightfully , for UK citizen be hold by Hamas . do he agree that any information come out of those reconnaissance mission that see illegal activity under international law should be hand over to the International Criminal Court for its ongoing investigation into the operation in Gaza ? the hon . Gentleman be right to stress the abominable , disgraceful , disgusting behaviour of Hamas . he call for a permanent ceasefire ; I suggest that that would be a heck of a lot easy if Hamas release the hostage they be hold right now . as I stress early , we will be in charge of the reconnaissance information , which will focus exclusively on hostage recovery and will be pass only to the appropriate authority . those on both Front Benches seem to agree that Hamas must not remain in control in Gaza . be any thought be give to how , once they have be remove , they can be prevent from come back ? there will need to be police , and a moderate major arab neighbour of Israel have say that a two - state solution can happen only if it be enforce . will we have a hand in that enforcement ? if not , how can it possibly happen ? my right hon . friend be an expert on these matter , and he be right : there have to be an international outcome to this , and a solution . I be afraid that in recent decade there have not be sufficient global focus on a two - state solution because it seem to be an unsolvable problem , and it have slip into the background . my right hon . friend be also right to say that there must be a global coalition which will need to include arab state . a huge amount of work be be undertake for what some people call " the day after " . may I ask a slightly wide question ? what be the Government do specifically to prevent escalation and promote regional stability ? I think that if on 7 October we have project forward eight week and know what we know now , we would have be very concerned about this lead to a widescale regional escalation . it be a credit to the United Kingdom and the professionalism of our service that , after the United States , we have deploy the most military assistance to the area . I have be tell by a fair number of the arab state that they appreciate the deterrent that that have place on Iran and its many proxy in the area . certainly the fact that eight week later we have not see that expand be a credit to the british laydown . in recent week we have see Houthi rebel attack on shipping in the Red sea , and back in June there be report of harassment of shipping in the strait of Hormuz by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and iranian attempt to consolidate control of contested island . what action be the UK take with our ally to protect freedom of navigation ? my right hon . friend be right . we have see the Houthi , out of Yemen , try to take advantage of the situation and , for the first time in a very long period , we have see somali pirate become involve . that be why I have send HMS Diamond to the Gulf , and it be why HMS Lancaster be there as well . let I reassure my right hon . friend : I be work very closely with our international partner on how we can dissuade people from engage in activity of this kind in what be international shipping water . that include the conversation that I have in the United States last week with my opposite number , the American Defence Secretary , Lloyd Austin . how can the Secretary of State reassure I that the defence resource and attention now be focus on the middle east will not in any way reduce what we be able to commit to in support of our friend in Ukraine ? I hope the right hon . Gentleman will know of my personal interest in and dedication to Ukraine . I can absolutely reassure he that this be not defocuse that work in any way , shape or form . we be ensure that we continue to provide daily support to our ukrainian friend , and I have a very close relationship with the Ukrainian Defence Secretary Umerov , Deputy Prime Minister Kubrakov , President Zelensky and many other within their system . it be important that Israel abide by the law of armed conflict , but in that context I welcome the deployment of these asset , not least to try to locate the british hostage . the Secretary of State will know that , ultimately , Hamas and Hezbollah be fund and train by Iran , so what discussion have he have with our new Foreign Secretary about when , oh when , we will finally declare that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps should be ban ? the irgc and its position be keep under constant review . I know that my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary be constantly look at the region . he have be out there already and will be weigh up the advantage of thing such as be able to have a post in - country against what it would mean to carry out such a ban . I also know that my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) will know how to take that up with the Foreign Secretary . far to the question from my hon . friend the Member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) , with the International Criminal Court step up its work in Gaza and the Government again confirm their surveillance flight over Gaza , will the Government hand over any and all evidence of war crime to the ICC , whether they be commit by Hamas follow the 7 October atrocity or in the ongoing massacre of Gazan civilian , particularly child , by the Israel Defence Forces ? the easy way to bring this to an end , as I hint early , would be for Hamas , a terrorist organisation , to release the hostage that they have , to stop fire rocket into Israel in a completely indiscriminate way , which I think the whole House should condemn , and to allow this thing to be bring to a close . as I have say repeatedly , it be important that Israel should adhere to international humanitarian law . I will be make that point publicly and have make that point all along to my israeli counterpart , Minister Gallant . I wonder why , however , the concern be not about the hostage who be be hold and how this situation could be bring to a conclusion much fast if they be release . I be pleased to hear that contingency planning be take place . would the Secretary of State consider task the aircraft carrier to the region as well ? behind Hamas sit Iran , behind Iran sit Russia , and behind Russia sit China . we be see new alliance form , and the world ' s ability to deal with these challenge be be severely test , as be our own armed force , who be now increasingly overstretch . what conversation be he have now with the Chancellor about increase the defence spend in the Budget in the spring ? I will go for the last of my right hon . friend ' s many good question . this Government be commit to 2 . 5 % , as condition allow . I know that he will be make his own representation to the Chancellor . I have previously talk about my own belief that we need to reach not just that 2 . 5 % but 3 % and high . it be reassure last week , in answer to my question , to hear the Minister for Armed Forces , the right hon . member for Wells ( James Heappey ) tell we that UK surveillance flight would not involve the use of intelligence for target acquisition . I also welcome the Secretary of State talk today about how information that would be helpful to hostage recovery will be pass to the so - call appropriate authority . we have now hear two question about the International Criminal Court . will the UK pass any evidence that it gather of any breach of international humanitarian law by combatant in Gaza to the ICC ? as the hon . Gentleman say , that question have be ask , and I have answer it a couple of time . the intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance — ISR — flight be to look for british hostage and indeed other hostage . that be the information that will be gather from those flight . of course , if we see anything else , we would most certainly alert our partner , but the purpose be to find our hostage and bring they home . we all ultimately want peace in the region , and we all want to see humanitarian aid get through . I welcome what my right hon . friend have say about HMS Diamond join HMS Lancaster , because do that not send a signal to Iran that its support for terror group be not acceptable and must not continue , and that through this action we will prevent further bloodshed in the region ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . it be important that we send that deterrent message , and it be work . I have call on all party not to think that this be an opportunity to get involve and cause further regional escalation , and so far , I be pleased to say that our deterrent have help to keep a lid on that . this conflict have already cost over 15 , 000 palestinian civilian life and over 1 , 200 israeli life . the US Defence Secretary have say : " you replace a tactical victory with a strategic defeat … I have repeatedly make clear to Israel ' s leader that protect civilian in Gaza be both a moral responsibility and a strategic imperative . " we know that regional escalation be a real threat . what will the Secretary of State be do to work with arab state and the US to apply pressure on the war party to bring an end to this war so that we do not see other country , include our own and the US , become engulf in a wide regional conflict ? I be actually with Lloyd Austin , the US Defence Secretary , when he speak those word , I believe , and we agree entirely . to make it absolutely clear , Israel need to comply with international humanitarian law . it need to go out of its way to warn people when it go after the terrorist , who use those people as human shield as a matter of routine . the hon . Lady rightly ask what we be do with our arab partner in the region . this will be my second visit to the region and I speak to my arab counterpart all the time . they have welcome our deterrent , but they also want we to work with the international community on make sure that , on the follow day , when this be complete , the solution be not leave to chance as it be before and that we be all work together to bring about a safe , more peaceful middle east for Israel and for Gaza . I welcome the deployment of HMS Diamond and HMS Lancaster and the potential deployment of two further ship , but what discussion have my right hon . Friend have with our NATO and EU partner about perhaps share the burden ? what progress have he make on that ? Shadow R1 be a slow - move specialist manned aircraft , but it be unarmed in a region that have iranian proxy with quite good capability , as well as Syria and russian activity . how confident be he that the advice he have receive have not put those servicemen in extreme harm ' s way ? to clarify the record on the two ship that my right hon . friend mention , HMS Lancaster be already there and HMS Diamond be there now , and there be two Royal Fleet Auxiliary ship , which I send right at the beginning of this conflict . in answer to his broad question , for security , make sure that our personnel be keep safe be always at the heart of what we do . I appreciate his concern , and I know that he will understand that I can not go into the detail of how we ensure that protection , but it be very much upmost in our mind wherever and whenever we deploy . yesterday I ask the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Aldershot ( Leo Docherty ) , whether the UK Government be in a position to contribute to the International Criminal Court ' s call for evidence in its investigation of potential breach of international humanitarian law . he say : " not at this stage , but we will continue to take note . " — [ Official Report , 4 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 34 . ] surely , if the UK Government be actively collect drone and surveillance image of the war zone , the answer to that question should have be yes ? I would have think that the no . 1 concern would be to locate the british hostage , and that be where the surveillance work will focus . the fcdo will be well place to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s specific question . I be grateful to the Defence Secretary for confirm that the MOD be currently rightly focus on regional security and containment but , inasmuch as the UK have a responsibility to Israel , we also have a responsibility to the people of Gaza . can he therefore reassure I that his Majesty ' s force will not become involved in any military action unless it be in direct support of british interest or british national ? yes . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) mention future arrangement . can the Secretary of State give the House an assurance that there will be no deployment of british troop on the ground in Gaza , Israel or the west bank without the approval of this House ? there simply be not go to be a deployment , so that will not be require . the Houthis , who be attack british and american cargo ship , and Hamas be basically two side of the same coin . they be Iranian - fund , Iranian - train and , of course , iranian - guide terrorist group that be publicly commit to the destruction of Israel . do the Defence Secretary agree that use UK military asset in support of our ally be crucial to deter further escalation ? none of we want further escalation . I particularly welcome the UK ' s deployment of drone to help locate hostage , include british hostage . in the day after 7 October , the Defence Secretary say : " no nation should stand alone in the face of such evil " . will he repeat that crucial support today and in the difficult day ahead ? I thank he for his support . I clarify again that these be not necessarily only drone . some will be pilot or will be unarmed . my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right that no nation should stand alone . it be easy to forget how this all begin , when the Hamas terrorist group think it be a plan to go into Israel to butcher man , woman and child , cut off head and rape people . one of the key to secure and sustain any ceasefire , pende a wide political solution , may be a UN , or UN - authorise , peacekeeping or monitor presence on the ground . for various reason , historical and otherwise , such a presence may have to be lead by the arab state . do the Secretary of State foresee any situation in which the MOD could provide back - up support to such a presence ? be any planning be do for such a scenario ? as the hon . Gentleman can imagine — and this be include in my conversation in the States last week — there be a huge amount of international work about what happen afterwards and how it will be structure . it be rather too soon , I be afraid , to predict exactly how it will look , but I do not think he be too far off the mark to think that this need to be a truly global response . it will need to involve arab partner . we will do whatever we can to support that , but I see no circumstance in which british troop would be on the ground . can my right hon . friend elaborate on the effort the Government be make to de - escalate the conflict , in the hope that this would reduce civilian casualty ? of course , the single big thing that could happen to escalate this conflict would be for it to turn into a regional conflict . I be think , in particular , of Hezbollah on the northern border with Lebanon , as well as what could happen from Syria , from Iranian - back terrorist in Iraq and , of course , from the Houthis . this could get bad in a variety of place , which be why send ship and military for deterrent purpose have be so vital and have be our primary approach to prevent this conflict from turn into a big regional conflict . can the Secretary of State tell we what role the RAF base in Cyprus be currently play in this situation ? be any military mat é riel be move through that base ? the hon . Lady will know that the RAF basis in Cyprus be a very useful asset . they be be use , for example , to provide support to our military in the area . to answer her specific question , I can assure she that we have provide no offensive military weapon to Israel during this conflict . in fact , our military export to Israel be quite low . last year ' s figure be something like £ 48 million , which be not a very significant amount of money . during the conflict , we would provide only defensive mat é riel , or mat é riel that might help with the recovery of hostage . I applaud the decisive action of my right hon . friend and the Government to defend our strategic ally , Israel , against Hamas , but the grim reality on the ground right now be that Hamas continue to fire dozen of rocket at israeli town and city . the Iran - back terror group have fire more than 10 , 000 rocket since 7 October and show no sign of stop their violent attack against Israel . will my right hon . friend not only commit to continue his support for Israel in defend itself against Hamas , but reassure the House that every possible step be be take to counter Iran ' s link across the region , which be cause instability ? my hon . friend make an excellent point that the conflict would be over immediately if hostage be release and Hamas stop fire rocket into Israel — there would not be a cause for conflict . indeed , that be the policy Israel follow for many year , hope that , even though rocket attack continue , Hamas would not take advantage of their own population by use they as human shield and building infrastructure under hospital , school and home . unfortunately , that be not the Hamas way . that be what they have do , and my hon . friend be absolutely right to identify Iran as be behind this whole evil business . the Secretary of State need to be very clear with the House : 15 , 000 people have already die in Gaza , and 1 , 200 have die in Israel . Israel be clearly push the entire population southward , if not out of the Gaza strip altogether . be Britain involve in the military action that Israel have take , either physically or by provide information in support of those military activity ? I think the House need to be tell . what be the long - term aim of british military involvement in Gaza ? the simple answer be no , and I hope that clear it up . I be surprised to hear the right hon . Gentleman talk just about people be kill . they be murder . they be slaughter . it be not just some coincidental thing . I understand and share the concern about the requirement on Israel , on we and on everyone else to follow international humanitarian law . when Israel drop leaflet , when it drop what it call a " knock " or a " tap " and do not bomb until afterwards , when it call people to ask they to move , when it issue map show where Hamas have their tunnel and ask people to move away from they , that be a far cry from what Hamas do on 7 October , when they go after man , woman and child . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement on increase UK military deployment in the middle east . thank to the armed force parliamentary scheme , I have be privileged to meet some of the highly skilled RAF and Royal Navy personnel who serve our country . will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to their exemplary professionalism and sense of duty as they undertake this extremely important work in the middle east , not just on behalf of our country and people in the middle east , but on behalf of every civilised democracy in the world ? I absolutely join my hon . friend . they be the most remarkable people , often operate in very difficult circumstance . I be very much look forward to meet some of they in the region this week . we have see increase bombardment in southern Gaza after the pause . we be also see increase violence in the west bank , support by extremist settler Ministers . what talk be the Secretary of State have with Israel to stop the increase in settler violence in the west bank ? I certainly will not be pull my punch when I speak to my israeli counterpart . the violence in the west bank be unacceptable and it must be control — stop , in fact . none of that , in any way , shape or form , separate we from our utter condemnation of how this whole thing be start in the first place with Hamas , but the hon . Lady be right about that settler violence . medical aid for Palestinians have warn that Israel ' s indiscriminate bombing and siege be make it impossible to sustain human life in Gaza . with 1 . 8 million civilian displace and a lack of clean water and sanitation , it be just a matter of time before a cholera outbreak kill many thousand more . the Secretary of State have be unequivocal that the main purpose of surveillance be to help find hostage , which be fine , but for the fifth time of ask : if clear evidence be find of breach of humanitarian law , will the UK Government share that evidence with the International Criminal Court ? the simple answer be that we will always follow international humanitarian law and its requirement . I want to say , with reference to the aid picture on the ground , that one of the primary reason for my visit this coming week be to work on ensure that the international community can get more aid into Gaza , and the United Kingdom will be lead on that point . I very much thank the Secretary of State and the Government for the stance they have take . it be one that I and my constituent very much support , as we do find a solution . may I also thank the Government for work tirelessly with partner abroad to bring home british national trap in Gaza ? will the Secretary of State perhaps provide assurance that surveillance flight will continue to fly over the eastern Mediterranean as long as there be still risk to british national remain in Gaza ? I can certainly provide an assurance that we will always do whatever we be able to do in the circumstance . during the recent pause , for example , part of the deal be that surveillance flight be not fly , but we would always ensure that we be try to assist . in particular , give that this entire episode begin with something of a surveillance failure , the UK have always be keen to help ; from the very early day of this conflict we have provide additional intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance over the eastern Mediterranean . what be new now be for that to be over Gaza , relate to the hostage specifically . it be absolutely right that innocent hostage should be release , and that step should be take to release they . it be absolutely right that those responsible for the crime of Hamas be hold to account in international law . but why be the Secretary of State so reluctant to give a clear , simple " yes " to the question whether the Government will provide any evidence of war crime to the International Criminal Court ? be it because he have already see such evidence ? be it because Israel have ask he to promise not to share such evidence ? what be the reason ? I have already say that the United Kingdom be bind by , and would always observe , international humanitarian law . opposition Day - 1st Allotted DayOpposition Day Town Centre Safety I beg to move , that this House condemn the Government ' s failure to tackle town centre crime ; be concerned that shoplifting have reach record level , with a 25 % rise over the past year and 1 , 000 offence per day , while the detection rate for shoplifter have fall ; believe that immediate action must be take to stop the increase number of unacceptable incident of violence and abuse face by shop worker ; note that the number of neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer have be reduce by 10 , 000 since 2015 ; and call on the Government to back labour ' s community policing guarantee , which include scrap the £ 200 limit on crown court prosecution for shoplift in the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 , create a new specific offence of violence against shop worker , roll out town centre policing plan and put 13 , 000 extra police and community support officer back in town centre to crack down on antisocial behaviour . it be a pleasure to open this debate on a motion in the name of the Leader of the Opposition , the shadow Home Secretary , myself and colleague . safety in our town centre be a subject that the public be deeply concerned about . it have a totemic impact on how we feel about where we live ; people love their community and hate it when a small number of people be able to wreck it for everyone else . nevertheless , it be an undervalued aspect of public policy and we be currently be let down by the Government ' s lack of idea and lack of interest in tackle this scourge . criminal damage in our town centre increase by 30 % last year . there be 150 incident of damage in public place each and every day . every one of those incident be another reason for people to stay at home , shop online or not go to the pub , and contribute to a sense that it be just not worth the bother of leave the house . that be devastating for local brick - and - mortar business , destroy the viability of our town centre , run down patronage of public transport and create an inexorable sense of decline . those who perpetrate such incident do it because they think they can get away with it . in this country we now tolerate 90 % of crime go unsolved ; last year there be 2 million crime unsolved . criminal be now half as likely to be catch as they be under the previous Labour Government . what an extraordinary indictment of 13 year of Tory leadership . in a rural area such as my constituency , where the town centre be small and spread out , one of the problem the police have be get from place to place , partly because they have a shortage of basic kit such as police car . do the hon . Gentleman agree that this be not just about community police , but about resource the police with the physical thing that they need to get about ? absolutely . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . it become more pressing , as she say , with rural community , because the thin blue line can feel very thin indeed . it be important that we have the right number of officer and the right kit to meet the need of the community . level of retail crime , alongside violence and abuse towards shopworker , have increase substantially in recent year . figure provide by the British Retail Consortium , the retail trade body , show that retail crime be up by more than a quarter in England and Wales last year . again , that be terrible for business and create a public environment that people do not want to be part of — another reason to stay at home . similarly , violent and abusive incident in store have rise significantly . in aggregate , we be talk a staggering 850 incident every single day . that be good be lift and staff be abuse physically , threaten , intimidate or spat at — all those horror story this be theft and violence on an epidemic scale , happen across every town centre , every single day . we have a special duty in this place to stand up for shop worker — yes , because everybody should be able to go to work without fear violence and abuse ; yes , because while we tell everyone else to shutter themselves away during the pandemic , they still go out to work so that we have the food and supply we need ; but particularly because we ask they to restrict the sale of dozen of product that in the wrong hand could be dangerous , such as acid , knife , alcohol and cigarette . in that moment they be of course work for their employer , but beyond what it might say on their name tag , they be public servant , and we know that that create potential flashpoint , each decline of sale a possible moment for violence or abuse . the continued lack of action be fail these people . may I check something with the shadow Minister ? what be the difference between his proposal and that which be enact under the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2023 , which upgrade offence against shop worker , who do very brave work indeed , to aggravate offence ? I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for seek to explain to I my own amendment to that legislation . I promise he that I will get to that point . I will not break that promise ; I will explain the difference in detail shortly . retailer , union , representative body , staff and management be totally align on the need for action — action that I will set out shortly when I detail our alternative , which be express in the motion . but first we must address this question : how do we end up here ? the blame lie squarely at the door of this government , follow 13 and a half year of make the life of criminal easy . take first the disastrous decision to cut 20 , 000 police officer — a decision so damaging that they have spend the past five year desperately seek to plug the gap . the loss of each officer from the frontline embolden those who seek to do down our town centre . those who cause disruption and crime today learn their skill and gain their confidence in an environment of hollow - out policing . do my hon . friend agree that there be a link between the 10 , 000 cut in the number of neighbourhood officer and police community support officer since 2015 and the increase in shoplifting ? do he also agree that it be irresponsible of the Government to call for citizen ' s arrest instead of be tough on crime and the cause of crime ? I be grateful for that intervention . the causality be there : the lack of availability of neighbourhood policing have create an environment in which people feel that they can steal without consequence . on citizen ' s arrest , I share my hon . friend ' s view that it be not something that we should be ask people to do . I know that the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire be enthusiastic about it , but be it practical ? take the Co - op , a retailer that be make huge stride to protect its staff . in general , it do not ask its staff to detain shoplifter , but some of its covert team do . in incident where they detain someone who have commit or be allege to have commit a crime , four time in every five , have take they to the back , they have to let they go again because there be no one to make the arrest . the idea that we can citizen ' s - arrest our way out of this be for the bird . it be a pity that the Scottish National party member be not here , because normally they would waste no opportunity to stand up and say how well they do thing in Scotland , and how much well they do they than the rest of the UK . we have six police officer for the whole county of Sutherland , which be 2 , 028 square mile . I can tell hon . member that in the big conurbation in my constituency , such as Alness , Wick and Thurso , we do not see cop on the beat and old people feel very vulnerable indeed . I know that it be a devolved matter , but I will not waste this opportunity to point out that thing be far from right in Scotland , and I wish that the Scottish Government would catch a grip . policing be a reserved matter , as the hon . Gentleman say , but the experience of community like his be reflect across all our four nation . that be why I say to his hon . friend , the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , that we ought to have that staffing kit as well as the equipment in order to try to protect the public . I represent the Labour and Co - operative party and I have great sympathy for shop worker who be be harass and attack , and have a really tough time . do my hon . friend agree that we need not only more community police , but far well co - operation with the big supermarket and their staff , and for they to bring together a whole team to protect both shopper and those who be serve ? I be grateful for that intervention from my Co - operative party colleague , because I can express our pride that the Co - operative party be spearhead this work in Parliament . I agree that there need to be work between retailer and staff , but we should take pride in the work that have already go on between retailer and the union . they be in lockstep on this , which be not always the case , and that co - operation be a great asset in this fight . even when the Government have attempt to reverse the disastrous implication of cut 20 , 000 police officer , they have fail , because in add back officer , they have squeeze out police staff and moor warrant officer away from the frontline , so we be 10 , 000 neighbourhood police short of the previous figure , as my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) say . each officer be another gap in that thin blue line , allow criminal to run amok . half the population say they rarely see police on the beat , a figure that have double since 2010 . however , we know that the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire have a cunning plan , which he unveil last week at Home Office question . to beef up the number of neighbourhood police , the Government be now go to count response police as neighbourhood police . that be risible nonsense . the clue be in the name : neighbourhood police be out on the street , in their community , provide a name presence , and build trust and relationship . the dynamic be different . neighbourhood police can be proactive , go to local community project , get to know people , and build trust and relationship . that be a different dynamic from response police , who might attend a community event , but then a day later be in a situation down the road where they have to put in someone ' s door or supervise a significant or difficult moment in a community . the relationship with the community be inherently different . similarly , response police can be call away at a moment ' s notice , to the other side of the force area . it be simply not the same and it be deeply worry that the Government think that it be . it represent a triple failure : officer cut , officer add back in the wrong place and now other type of officer be rebadge . they be fail community and fail our hard - work police . my hon . friend talk about rebadging officer , but our wonderful police community support officer be worth a shout - out . they do day - to - day work and often stay in the job for a long time . when I be on doorstep in Hackney , the resident often know the name of the local pcso . obviously , we need more police , but it would be good to have more pcso as well . my hon . friend be exactly right and I will come on to our plan for more pcso . they provide a neighbourhood link and , as she say , a more sustained connection to a community . they also ensure our police force be more representative of the community they serve , so they add an excellent dimension to our policing . however , policing have not be the only problem . we be still reap the pain from the catastrophic decision to downgrade theft of £ 200 and under in the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 , which have be a godsend to shoplifter . it have create a generation of thief who think they will not be catch or even investigate . on the back of that , high - volume organise retail crime have be generate , with huge criminal enterprise that we be now ask the police to dismantle — what a dreadful failure of public policy . even now , when we know the impact that have have , the Government will not match our call to scrap that measure . instead , minister cling to the idea that the police be gear up to follow all reasonable line of inquiry and that , once again , they can do more with less . of course they can not do that . our officer , police staff and community deserve well than be set up to fail . the Government weaken antisocial behaviour power 10 year ago and bring in new power that be so useless they be barely use , such as the community trigger . get rid of power of arrest have prove a poor idea , even though they be warn not to do that . community penalty have halve and there be a backlog of million of hour of community payback scheme not complete because the Government can not run the scheme properly . that be before we get to the failure with early intervention , with £ 1 billion take out of youth service budget and the dismantling of drug and alcohol service . the disruption we see in our town centre today stem from a litany of bad decision take by those on the Government Benches over the last 13 year . the Government have fail and our community be pay the price . the shadow Minister be talk about bad decision . do he agree that the Labour police and crime commissioner make a bad decision not to reopen Dinnington police station when he have a £ 2 million budget underspend a few year ago ? he be happy to reopen Edlington police station in Doncaster , but when it come to Rother Valley and Dinnington police station , he say no . as the hon . Gentleman know , those be devolve decision where that individual have the mandate to make such decision . his constituent have the right to change the police and crime commissioner at the next election . they also have the chance to change the Member of Parliament at the next election , so we shall wait for those judgment in due course . I be pleased that he raise the matter of election , because in July there be a council election in Dinnington , where the police station should be reopen , and the Conservatives increase their share of the vote by over 10 % . it be clear that people want the police station to be reopen and they reject Labour ' s lack of police in our area . the hon . Gentleman wish to express confidence and ease , but I be afraid he be not do a very good job of it . there be a well way : where the Government have fail , the Opposition have a plan to wrest back control of our street . [ interruption . ] Government member might be interested in some of the concept , include the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) , who chirp at I despite have ask I a question that I be go to address . we make a community police guarantee to our country . it start with police back on the beat , with 13 , 000 more police and police community support officer in neighbourhood team . with funding base on conservative estimate of available saving identify by the Police Federation , we will restore visible police and pcso back on the street , deter and detect crime , and build relationship and confidence . the shadow Minister will be aware that here in London , the Metropolitan police and Sadiq Khan , the labour police and crime commissioner , be give significant funding by the Government to increase police number , but the force be the only one in the country not to hit its recruitment target , cost London over 1 , 000 police officer . how would his plan work here in London , with Sadiq Khan ? I will not take lecture on police number from a member of a party that cut they . as I say to his hon . friend , the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Alexander Stafford ) , those be devolve matter . as a Government , we will make available the resourcing for 13 , 000 more police and police and community support officer . my hon . friend be make a very good speech . we want to protect shop worker and stop shoplift — it would be wrong to say that we do not — but in my constituency , which be similar to that of my hon . friend , poverty stalk our land . the gap between rich and poor mean that the country be the most divided I can remember in my 44 year in Parliament . there be desperate people in our community . I do not approve of any of they break the law , but do my hon . friend agree that it would be dishonest for any of we to pretend that poverty do not stalk this land ? I do agree . one of the core mission of a future Labour Government will be to tackle that poverty and give everybody the opportunity to live full , productive and happy life . secondly , on our policing guarantee , we will tackle antisocial behaviour in our town centre head on . in particular , we pledge to introduce new respect order that will give the police and local community the right tool to exclude from town centre those who repeatedly disrespect they . they will be a quick , effective tool that tilt the balance back to the vast majority of people who do thing the right way . thirdly , we will stand up for shopworker . we will scrap the disastrous £ 200 downgrade in the 2014 Act and thereby make it clear to thief that open season be over and to retailer that we value their business . in the same vein , we will heed the call from USDAW , from all the major retailer and from all the representative body for a new specific offence of assault against a retail worker . as a Labour and Co - operative party Member of Parliament , I be proud to have spearhead attempt to recognise assault against retail worker as an aggravating factor in sentencing , but we need great clarity in the law . have it as a sentencing factor alone do not seem to be act as a deterrent , so we need a specific offence , as there be in Scotland thank to the excellent work of Daniel Johnson MSP . that will send a clear signal to those who perpetrate attack that it be not acceptable , and make it easy for the police to police this scourge . fourthly , we want to put community back into community policing . too often , people tell we that they feel policing be do to they rather than with they , and that they do not think that local policing priority necessarily match their own . much of the problem be about resource , give the Government ' s denude of police our force . our commitment be for town centre planning so that those who live , work , play and trade in our town centre will get to have a say in how they be protect . there will be proper community police plan to reflect the community ' s priority , with a name officer to work with as the plan develop . fifthly , the final component of our community policing guarantee be that we will restore the value and cachet of community police . we will ensure that the path to career progression in police be through officer get to know their community , and that all neighbourhood officer have the skill and training to be problem solver as well as recorder of crime . we will also work with the College of Policing and police chief to ensure that neighbourhood policing have access to cutting - edge technology and method , include data analytic and hotspot policing . that be our community policing guarantee . take in its aggregate , it be by far the bold commitment to keep our town centre safe that have be make in recent memory . that be the scale of ambition that we ought to see from the Government , but we simply do not . this be good moment to talk about the Criminal Justice Bill , which be to some degree an attempt to address some of the issue we be debate . we do not oppose it on Second Reading and intend to work constructively in Committee to improve it . there be good thing in the legislation — we be glad to see an enhance focus on fraud ; to see the police give power to address issue that annoy our constituent , such as the search and seizure of steal item that be GPs track ; and to see great flexibility around public space protection order — but be that really it ? this be the final year of this parliamentary term and we have a crime Bill that be tough on homeless people than it be on those who terrorise our town centre . there be nothing on retail crime and nothing on neighbourhood police . we will look to add measure in Committee , but we should not have to . the Government can take the first step to address the situation by accept our motion , but I fear that they may well not be minded to do so . I fear that we will hear the same message we always hear : an attempt to convince the british public that they have never have it so good on policing — record this or record that — or that in some way our proposal will happen soon . [ interruption . ] the right hon . Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire have not learn from the Home Secretary the lesson about chirp from the Front Bench . I say to he that the british public do not buy those argument and deserve well . if he genuinely believe that the status quo be well than what be offer by those on the Opposition Benches , let we let the british public decide . ask they whether they have never have it so good , or be ready for change . I will take my chance with they any day . rise — Order . before I call the Minister , I remind colleague that if they want to intervene , they be expect to stay for the entire speech by the person on whom they intervene . I do not want to set a time limit on speech , but my advice be that after the Minister have finish I suspect there will be about eight minute per Member . I be glad to have this opportunity to speak and hope to set the record straight . forgive I if I do not recognise the counsel of despair emanating from the Opposition Benches . the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) invite we to believe that there have be a catalogue of failure and that everything be get bad , but the fact tell we something different . I do not pretend that everything be perfect — of course we need to protect our town centre and the people who use they , and I will come to all that in a moment — but for all the noise that these debate can generate , we do the public a disservice if we seek to distil everything into a row across the Dispatch Box without sometimes acknowledge the merit of the other side and the meaningful progress they have sometimes make . on that conciliatory note , could we all just pay tribute to what the police do , because they be the focus of the debate ? they put on the uniform in the morning and say goodbye to their love one not know how their day be go to turn out . as we argue about where thing should go in future , perhaps we can all agree that they do such an important job for our society and that we owe they a huge debt of gratitude . I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . I accept without reservation that there be considerable courage and selflessness in be a first responder whose job and duty be to run towards danger when everybody else be run away from it . let I begin with the simple fact . since 2010 , neighbourhood crime — the crime that undermine the fabric of community and make people feel unsafe in their home and on their local street — have fall . the crime survey for England and Wales , which the Office for National Statistics describe as " the good estimate of long - term trend in crime against the household population " , show that since 2010 overall crime level be down by more than 50 % . violent crime as a whole , which include crime that involve any form of offensive weapon , be down by 52 % . theft overall , which include domestic burglary and the theft of a vehicle — some of the most invasive theft that go directly to a person ' s sense of personal security — have almost halve since we come into office . domestic burglary currently stand at its low ever level . do the Minister accept that the workplace be a personal place for those who work there ? the Co - op Group have report that in the year to date some 300 , 000 incident of abuse and violence have take place in shop up and down the country . employee who be just there to sell to the public in their community be the victim of abuse and , in some case , violence , but the police do not even turn up to 76 % of report , so how can people feel safe go to work ? I will come specifically to shop worker . I have no difference of opinion with the Opposition on the point about the role of shop worker and some of the issue that affect they personally , and I reassure the hon . Gentleman that I will come to that . there be today more police officer in England and Wales than at any other point in our nation ' s history — will the Minister give way ? if I could just finish my sentence , I will of course give way to the hon . Lady . the most recent figure we have be from March 2023 , when the figure for police office in England and Wales be 149 , 566 . it have never be high . with that , I give way . I wonder whether the Minister can provide the per capita of population figure . I do not have that figure , so I will have to write to the hon . Lady . it be right that decision about how police resource be deploy , include the number and composition of people in neighbourhood and local policing role , be for the determination of chief constable , who know their beat well than anyone and be accountable to democratically elect police and crime commissioner . nevertheless , the number have a broad significance , and I want to draw the opposition ' s attention to four point . first , due to the investment in the police uplift programme , the number of police officer in local policing role be the high since comparable datum begin to be collect , with an increase of 6 . 5 % in the 12 month to 31 March . we have more female officer and more officer from minority ethnic background than ever before — something that I hope the hon . member for Nottingham North will agree be consistent with some of the conclusion that be certainly imply , if not make explicit , on the nature of representation in Baroness Casey ' s report into conduct in the Metropolitan police . we have more officer receive specialist training for specific category of crime . I will give the House one example , because yesterday I visit Avon and Somerset Police , the pioneer force conduct Operation Soteria Bluestone in the investigation of rape . they make it perfectly clear to I that the increase in number that they have see locally have facilitate a huge increase in the number of specialist train rape and serious sexual offence police officer . in fact , there be 2 , 000 nationwide . I note that the hon . Gentleman say that we be set the police up to fail . that could not be more different from the information that that force give I yesterday — and if they be incorrect , I would appreciate it if he would explain why when he close . I put on record my support for the police , particularly Thames Valley Police — like the Minister , I represent a constituency in Berkshire . can she update the House on the proportion of new officer who be still in training ? it seem to be a very serious issue in Reading and the surround area that , while officer have be recruit , they be still in training , as oppose to the fully train and experienced officer who be lose through austerity . the hon . Gentleman ask a fair question , and I will have to get back to he on that . I know that the number in my part of the Thames Valley be quite low , but that may not extend to read . he deserve an answer on that , and I will get one to he . the Government have also ensure that the police have the resource they need . this year they receive record funding of above £ 17 . 2 billion . that be an extra £ 550 million for frontline policing compare with last year . I gently remind those on the Opposition Benches that they vote against our police funding settlement every single year between 2016 and 2019 . I want to draw our attention down to community level and make a few observation . we have have a commitment from the National Police Chiefs ' Council — it be announce in August , as the hon . member for Nottingham North will recall — that the police will follow up on all reasonable line of inquiry and that there be no offence too small . that commitment be intend to offer huge reassurance to the public . it be also this government who introduce the safe street fund , which have be in receipt of £ 120 million already , for 270 project cover all 43 police force in England and Wales , and which be complement by the StreetSafe app . all that kind of thing can seem quite microscopic , as though it only affect individual street or individual park , report a broken light or a dark and dangerous corner of a popular area for jogging . the point be that people can report the area and action will be take , and all that contribute to improve the fabric of community up and down the United Kingdom . I want to spend a moment on retail crime , which I will deal with in two part : first I will cover shoplift itself , and then I will move on to assault on retail worker . I take issue , very respectfully , with the suggestion that somehow the Government be be complacent in shoplifting . the Government be clear that we expect the police to take a zero - tolerance approach to shoplifting and violence towards shop worker . I want to disabuse anyone of the notion that somehow we have decriminalise shoplifting offence below £ 200 . I gently draw the shadow Minister ' s attention to the following . in 2020 , the National Business Crime Centre survey police force in England and Wales , ask whether they have a policy of not respond to shoplift if the good be worth less than £ 200 . not one force in England and Wales say that it have such a policy . he will know as well as I do that the National Police Chiefs ' Council recently produce a retail crime action plan , which include a commitment to prioritise police attendance at the scene where violence have be use against shop staff . I accept the explanation that it be not a write policy , but how do the Minister explain that in 76 % of the 300 , 000 sample case , the police do not turn up ? it be difficult for I to identify every single complaint and whether somebody have attend , but one thing I think be relevant be that the increase in shoplift that we have regrettably see over the past 12 month have be meet by a corresponding and equivalent increase in the volume of charge for shoplifting offence . charge be up by 29 % in the past 12 month . I gently draw the hon . Gentleman ' s attention to that . I want to talk specifically about offence against retail worker . I invite the hon . member for Nottingham North to answer this point when he close — it be not put in an aggressive way , because I recognise the role that retail worker perform and it be completely unacceptable that they should be subject to violence in the line of their duty , but it be already unlawful to commit an act of assault . it be criminalise under the Criminal Justice Act 1988 and the Offences against the Person Act 1861 . the hon . Gentleman know , because we have already have this discussion , that there be a statutory obligation to treat the fact that an individual be a retail worker as an aggravating factor . he have identify the fact that the trade union support a new law , but I say very respectfully that the judge do not , the Crown Prosecution Service do not and the police force I have speak to do not . the practitioner in this area of the law do not support a new law . even though he have make that point , he have not identify any case where he consider there to have be a miscarriage of justice because the law be not sufficient to offer protection . it be not enough simply to assert that we need new law without set out clearly why the exist statutory protection do not succeed . let I now turn to the issue of antisocial behaviour — it be not minor or trivial , and I make no bone about that . it be probably the principal crime that all mp hear about , irrespective of the constituency we represent . I want to reassure the hon . Gentleman that we have take a range of legislative and non - legislative action . a new antisocial behaviour action plan be introduce early this year , back by £ 160 million of funding to ensure that our commitment have real tooth . he will be aware of the hotspot patrolling pilot that have be conduct across 10 police force and be about to be roll out on a national basis because of its success . I thank the Minister for the £ 2 . 4 million give to South Yorkshire Police for antisocial behaviour hotspot , include in Maltby and Dinnington , area in my constituency that be plague by antisocial behaviour . when I meet the police and the police and crime commissioner , they say that that money be make a real difference to get boot on the ground and on patrol . I thank the Minister for the extra fund to clamp down on antisocial behaviour in Rother Valley . it be very heartening to hear that those fund be make a real difference in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I also draw the shadow Minister ' s attention to some of the new tooth , if I may call they that , in the Criminal Justice Bill . he will be aware that we have lower the minimum age at which a community protection notice can be order to 10 year old . that be not just to achieve consistency with other aspect of criminal justice , but because we recognise that in reality quite a lot of antisocial behaviour be commit by those in the age 10 to 16 bracket . that be a common complaint that many in this House will be familiar with . we have extend police power to implement a public space protection order . I mention that simply because I could not differentiate between that and the respect order that the hon . Gentleman be describe , but it give the police great power for a rapid response . we have also expand the minimum exclusion period by 50 % , from 48 hour to 72 hour , to give authority more power to implement dispersal arrangement . move on to our Criminal Justice Bill , I think I note the shadow Minister ' s qualified agreement with at least some of its content , and certainly those on the Opposition Benches do not vote against it on Second Reading . we respectfully say that the Bill take the fight to the criminal , introduce new power to enter premise and seize steal good — the example give repeatedly during the debate be of steal mobile phone , the everyday theft that people endure . it contain new power on knife crime to seize , retain and destroy a bladed article find on private property , without evidence that it have be use in conjunction with a criminal offence , but where there be a reasonable belief that it may be , and new law on possession of a knife with intent . I would add one or two other measure that be just as important to community safety . this Bill , for the first time , recognise coercive control as the cancer of a crime that it be , by put those convict of a serious offence in that regard under the multi - agency public protection arrangement and then put they on the violent and sex offender register . the hon . member for Nottingham North be critical of the Criminal Justice Bill , but he neglect to say anything about the Sentencing Bill , which have its Second reading tomorrow . that Bill will put some of the bad offender away for long , so some of the man who maraud on our street to carry out the most grotesque offence against woman — we all know their name — can anticipate a whole - life order without the possibility of parole , even if theirs be a one - off offence . Rapists , who under the last Labour Government serve just 50 % of their sentence behind bar under section 44 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 , can now look forward to spend the entirety of their sentence in custody without the possibility of parole . I be not sure that I like the language of " take the fight to the criminal . " the fact of the matter be that we want to deal with criminal in the right way . if only the Minister would look at the injustice of joint enterprise , under which almost 1 , 000 young people be in prison with long sentence for crime in which they do not actually physically take the fight to anyone . the hon . Gentleman have be a compassionate campaigner on the issue of joint enterprise , and I have listen to he a lot over the year . I know that the matter be consider by the Court of Appeal , and its decision be not consistent with some of his remark , but that conversation should be continue because it be a develop area of the law . I will conclude with a quotation from a non - political figure . his Majesty ' s chief inspector of constabulary , Andy Cooke , say recently : " England and Wales be arguably safe than they have ever be . " I make no apology for end where I begin : neighbourhood crime have fall by 50 % since 2010 , and I be proud of that . of course , we can go far , and we be build and develop police power , new law and community measure so that we can get there , protect the law - abide majority and cherish the town centre in our community by keep they safe . 1 hope that anyone who have visit Halifax recently would agree that , despite the year of austerity and the challenge typically face northern Pennine town , we be do pretty well — thank largely and in no small part to good decision take by our ambitious Labour council . it be a particularly busy time of year . with the Christmas market , the festive event season at the magnificent Piece Hall , and the cultural and independent retail offer at Dean Clough mill , we have a lot to be very proud of stretch right across the town . however , as in almost all town centre and the community beyond , stay on top of antisocial behaviour and criminality be an ongoing challenge . we be the home of " Happy Valley " , but despite all our pride for the stunning backdrop that wrap around that gripping drama , we need to grapple with some of the dark reality that have inspire the show . research undertake by Tom Scargill at the Halifax Courier shine a spotlight on exactly that . the Courier find that between August 2020 and September of this year , 355 people have be arrest for knife - relate crime in Calderdale , include two arrest for murder in August 2021 , and five arrest for attempt murder . offender range from child as young as 12 to adult male in their 70 . alongside harrowing incident of sexual crime , there be 71 arrest for threat to kill , and 107 arrest for assault with injury involve knife . those statistic be shocking , but behind every number be the harrowing experience of a victim . those statistic be publish prior to the devastating event in the early hour of 2 October , when a triple stabbing in Halifax town centre claim the life of two young man age just 19 and 21 . the senseless tragedy send shockwave across the town , and our thought and condolence continue to be with the family and friend of those two young man who never come home from their night out . the tragedy occur after a night out in Halifax ' s thriving night - time economy . knife should not be on our street at any time of day , and the Government must strain every sinew to reverse that shameful trend . I pay tribute to Pubwatch chair Martin Norris and vice - chair Simon Woodcock , who work incredibly hard to bring partner together to ensure that Halifax be a safe night out for everyone . however , they need help and support from the police , Calderdale Council and wide partner to embed good practice , responsible management and behaviour into the night - time economy , to the benefit of reveller and the wide community . I commend they for their effort . when I spend time knock on door and speak to town centre business , people ' s fear and experience of crime feel more real than ever . report of drug dealing , antisocial behaviour and speeding in busy pedestrian area come up on almost every street . I pay tribute to our local police officer , particularly our neighbourhood police team , which be so ably lead by Inspector Jim Graham . they be on the frontline of effort to ensure that our town centre and wide neighbourhood be safe and welcome place . however , there be still 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police than in 2015 , and team be almost always carry significant number of vacancy . we will not improve safety in town or across community without look after police officer themselves . the Police Federation of England and Wales have just launch its annual pay and morale survey for 2023 . last year ' s survey reveal that 95 % of the nearly 37 , 000 officer who respond say that their treatment by the Government have harm their morale , while 87 % say the same about their pay , so although there have be a great deal of consensus in the Chamber about pay tribute to police officer for the great work that they do in our community , it be incredibly important that we establish a consensus on that point as well . the survey find that nine in 10 police officer feel that they be bad off financially than five year ago , and that nearly one in five officer plan on handing in their resignation as soon as possible , or within the next two year , because of reason that include unfair pay . independent research carry out by the Social Market Foundation last year reveal that police officer ' pay have decline by 17 % in real term , make the police an outlier among protective service worker , public sector worker and all worker , who , over the same period , have have real - term pay rise of 1 % , 14 % and 5 % respectively . what it be about police officer , who have no industrial right , that have make they such an easy target for attack on their pay in recent year ? hon . member might remember that I start the protect the Protectors campaign back in 2016 after I have be force to call 999 from a police car to call for back up for the single - crew police officer I be shadow when a routine vehicle stop suddenly turn very nasty . the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 be pass thank to an outstanding campaign by my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) . although that legislation have not deliver the societal change of eradicate assault on emergency service worker , as we have hope , it do send out a strong message that that be not acceptable and would not be tolerate . that legislation recognise the somewhat unique responsibility of emergency service worker , who we ask to run towards danger on our behalf , but it be incredibly depressing that we now have to consider as a matter of urgency what further protection should be make available to retail worker . the result of the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers " freedom from Fear " survey of 2022 be shocking . they reveal that three quarter of retail worker have experience verbal abuse , half have be threaten by a customer , and 8 % have be assault . the survey reveal that nearly a third be consider change their job , and more than four in 10 feel anxious about work , all because of high level of abuse , threat and violence . that come as shoplifting have reach record level — up 20 % in West Yorkshire and 25 % across England and Wales over the past year — with the number of offence reach 1 , 000 per day , which paint a particularly depressing picture of what retail worker , store manager and business owner have to deal with . despite that , the detection rate of shoplifter have actually fall , as set out in Labour ' s motion . I hear what the Minister say , but surely the Government ' s decision in 2014 to bring in legislation to downgrade enforcement when the value of steal good be below £ 200 have have a detrimental impact on detection rate and completely diminish justice for shopkeeper who face brazen theft from their store . I hope that the Minister will be explicit about how that failure will be address . the police and their partner work hard to keep our town centre safe , but it feel increasingly as if they be fight a lose battle . far from be tough on crime and the cause of crime , it feel like the past 13 year have be tough on policing , tough on the criminal justice system , and devastating for youth service . we need to rebuild those service if we be to start to reverse the ugly trend in our town centre and our community . we need a Labour Government . I know that in an Opposition day debate , it be customary for the Opposition to have a pop at the Government and for the Government to have a pop at the Opposition . however , on a serious note , even if I do not agree with some of the point that the opposition be make and the conclusion they be draw , the theme they have raise this afternoon be important . it be important that we debate it and discuss the work that have go on . I will focus on three point : the high street generally , shop in particular , and the legislative framework that we be work under . this subject be important , because economically , our high street have have a difficult time recently , and it be important that we do what we can to get they to thrive . Covid have have an effect on many shop nationally , and the growth in online shopping have perhaps make our high street not as attractive as they be in the past . we need to make sure that our high street be an attractive place to shop . we have be celebrate Small Business Saturday recently ; in that context , where crime and antisocial behaviour be a problem , it act as a deterrent to shop on the high street . we need to take that seriously and deal with it . in 2019 , I stand on a manifesto that promise to recruit 20 , 000 extra police officer , and I be very pleased that that target have be smash , with 418 extra officer in Nottinghamshire . among other thing , that have enable we to have high - profile local policing on the back of the cut in neighbourhood crime , which , as have be set out , be down 51 % since 2010 . to contextualise this matter , and on a personal note , I would like to thank Mark Stanley , my local neighbourhood police inspector in Gedling , for his work . face with a particular problem with antisocial behaviour in Arnold in my constituency , the police do a lot of proactive work locally to put on more patrol and create a visible presence in the town centre . that be start to have an effect ; the extra resource that be now available have help we to have proactive , intelligence - lead policing . there be much more work to be do in Arnold and elsewhere , but we have make a good start . turn to shop in particular , retail be in focus as we approach Christmas , and the issue affect retail worker have be much in the news , but they be a year - round issue . I agree with the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) that the work of the Co - op — the shop , not the Co - operative party — have be helpful in raise the profile of incident that have be affect its staff . I have find the information it have supply I with about Co - op in my constituency very helpful ; I be think in particular of the one on Coppice Road in Arnold , which I shop at very regularly when I live nearby . the Co - op have give very graphic explanation of some of the issue its staff have be face , and I have have an opportunity to speak to staff there as well . in that context , I welcome the launch of the Government ' s retail crime action plan and the commitment to urgently attend scene of shoplifting involve violence , where security guard have detain an offender , or where assistance be need to secure evidence . I also welcome the introduction of the new specialist police team Pegasus to create a comprehensive intelligence picture of the organise crime gang that be behind many shoplifting incident , and locally , I welcome the fact that part of the £ 750 , 000 safe street fund have be award to Netherfield and Colwick in my constituency . that will enable we to bring forward a whole raft of measure to cut crime , include CCTV , safe street warden , well street lighting , a burglary reduction officer and a Shopwatch radio scheme . Victoria retail park in Netherfield have be particularly affect by crime , and I hope that when these measure be introduce , they will target the specific issue that that area face . I welcome the investment in that community . in this debate , we have consider aspect of the legislative framework that underpin this issue . as legislator , we have two thing that we can do : we can scrutinise those who have power , and we can make and repeal law . if we feel strongly about a subject , there be a strong temptation to create new law to try to deal with it . that be a very natural human reaction — as legislator , there be only so many lever that we can pull — but I would be reluctant to follow all of the recommendation in the motion . there be well - establish legislation , from the Offences against the Person Act 1861 through to the Theft Act 1968 and beyond , that deal with these issue . if person a attack or threaten person B , that be a bad thing in itself ; we do not need to create extra offence to deal with it . what we have be sufficient , and there be danger in create new offence . to summarise , I be pleased with the great investment in deal with crime , the extra police officer on our street in Gedling and the extra measure that be be introduce , but there be obviously much more to be do . I look forward to the legislation that will come before the House shortly . the reason why we be all in the Chamber for this debate be that we understand the importance and significance of our town centre and high street . they be our community , they be our economy , and in large part they be the heritage of our place — that be why we hold they so dear . every town centre be different , unique in its character ; even within constituency , we recognise that . I see it myself in Oldham , Chadderton and Royton : each have its own identity , its own place in history , and its own role in the community . over the past decade or more , though , we have not just see the usual change that take place over a lifetime . town centre have always have to change : they have to change when the rise of the shopping centre change the traditional long high street , when the retail park open and when online retail take off . they have always adapt and change , but now it feel like a combination of factor be undermine the potential of our town centre to thrive and have a place in the future , and some of they come at the direct behest of the Government . if we accept that our town centre be important for our community , our economy and our heritage , those be the thing that will be affect if we do not take action . let we list some of the change that will be familiar to every single community — almost nowhere in the country be protect from these change . bank , include bank that be bail out by the taxpayer and be own by the state , be close high street branch . in the past 10 year , nearly 8 , 000 branch have close , which of course affect local job , but also reduce the footfall in town centre and high street . in some case , if people can not go to the bank , they do not have a reason to go into town at lunchtime . there be some exception — nationwide , a mutual , have make a commitment to ensure that its branch network be maintain — but we do not see the same commitment from many high street operator . that be undermine our town centre . the hon . Gentleman be make a very important and valuable point . the development of banking hub in some town , such as in Stone follow the loss of Lloyds bank , will have a big impact . do he agree that banking hub should be roll out across many more town in his constituency and mine ? I do agree with that — in fact , it be Labour party policy to create those banking hub — but we should not have get into this position to begin with . it should have be require by law that the last bank in town have a community responsibility . there be not a single bank in Royton or Chadderton district centre ; we would have to build a hub from scratch , because when the Lloyds and Halifax close in the respective town , the Government take no action to say , " hang on . we have already lose five , six or seven bank . we need to make sure at least one remain , so that there be consumer choice . " there will be a lot of make - up to do when the election come ; it will be do , but I be afraid we will be start from a very low point . however , I accept the right hon . Gentleman ' s generous point about the importance of those bank . we have have 9 , 000 shop close in the last decade , affect 125 , 000 job in their community : 41 % of those be clothing shop , 19 % sell household good and 10 % be convenience store . think about convenience store , whether it be the local Co - op , Tesco Express or Morrisons , where will the cash machine be after the bank close ? the bank close , the post office close and the convenience store close , and there be no cash machine for people to take out money from the bank , lead to financial isolation in many place . pub be the beat heart or the anchor of many community , and the place where people can get together to tackle loneliness and isolation . particularly in industrial town such as mine , the building of significance on the high street — where the heritage be really bring out and we get the character of the place — be the church , the pub and the town hall . in many place , those big asset be under threat . some 13 , 600 pub have close in the last 10 year — the number be down 22 % . if we look at the public sector , in my town of Oldham — a town of a quarter of a million people — thousand of job be be take away from the town centre . those be people who do not go out to lunch to buy a sandwich and do not support local retail . More than that , it remove a sense of identity and of belong in a place , and it have an impact on how safe people feel there . the Government have not just close our county court and our magistrate court , but cause the closure of so many police station that there be not a single custody cell in our town . even if somebody be arrest for violence against a shop worker , they would be take out of town to be process . the chief superintendent in my town say that that have a material impact on the decision officer take about arrest be make and people be take to custody , because they can not afford to take a whole day out from the frontline on the beat for that . it be have a material impact . my hon . friend talk about the time that take up for police officer . I be sit recently with my ill father for 24 hour in A & E — not just a tv programme — and I notice that there be three shift change of police officer to sit with somebody who be also wait for 24 hour in A & E , so the crushing of public service elsewhere be detrimental for our police force . we do see that , as I will come on to say a bit later . in Oldham town centre , we have a lot of conversion from office , pub and retail to house in multiple occupation . a lot of complaint be cause by that concentration of high - demand social problem , but there be not the back support that use to be there for drug and alcohol abuse , domestic violence and on - street offence . in the end , the police be the only number people call because they be the only one who might turn out . the point about attendance at A & E be absolutely right . in many place , the police be not just uphold the law , but try to keep society together because all else have give way . we see these problem much more broadly , even beyond the public sector and in local government . our HMRC office have close and the Department for Work and Pensions office have close , take hundred or thousand of staff away from the town centre . we be also see cut to art and culture : local theatre have close and local community organisation have withdraw service away from town . More than that , in the face of such decline , local authority have be disempowere in deal with what follow . we have see office that use to provide footfall and job for the local community be convert , with no consideration of the capacity and infrastructure of the local community , to substandard accommodation — we call they guinea pig hutch because they be so small , and they do not provide the right living standard — or to HMOs in which people have share accommodation . the Government ' s housing benefit change in relation to financial provision for under - 21s be add to that social problem . the market have be completely change , so when we walk down a high street , what use to be a pub , a bank or a shop be completely blank . we can walk from door to door without see a single shopfront because they have be convert to that type of residential use , with all the issue that bring . another issue be ownership . the Government could bring in a register of beneficial ownership so that we know who own our high street . the trouble many local authority have be that a building can be empty and board up for decade or generation , attract antisocial behaviour , but they be not able to take any action because they can not find out who the owner be . if the owner be register at that address , but they be not there , how on earth do the local authority find out who own it ? many owner be offshore or around the world . the Government could make that change , but they choose not to do so . on taxation , how odd be it that with business rate , someone be tax before they can take a penny through the till ? they be tax to open the shop door . they can take not a single penny through the till during a trading day , and they will pay to exist . there be no other form of taxation that charge people to exist ; it be usually charge on the income they receive or the profit they make . that be not the case with business rate , and that be have a material impact on the survival of shop . on transport and accessibility , how many bus route have be cut so people can not get into town ? especially in rural and coastal community where the service be not as frequent , when it get cut , how on earth do people get anywhere near their town centre ? on crime and antisocial behaviour , many mp in the Chamber will have attend their local high street and town centre for Small Business Saturday , when we of course celebrate independent retailer , and they will have hear the same story that I have hear from Maggie Hughes , who own a clothing shop call Zutti in Oldham . it be a staple of our community : it have be there for 40 year , and everybody know and love Maggie and the staff who work there . she be also the vice - chair of the town centre board . she say that she be fearful for the street and the way it be decline , because of antisocial behaviour and crime . for the first time ever , I have to wait to be buzz in before I go through the door because , for her own safety and that of the shop worker , she have have to put a security lock on the door . that be not right . it be not right that people go to work fearful for themselves and for their staff , let alone for their stock . Most retailer accept that , to a degree , they be go to get some marginal loss of stock , as they call it . however , they do not at all accept that the staff who be there to work — by the way , many of the employee in retail job in town centre be female — be vulnerable not just to theft , but to people turn violent if they be challenge . even more than that , if when they be challenge they be detain , staff can call the police , but the police do not even turn up in the majority of case . we can see how all this be add to the perfect storm , which be why the Co - operative party , USDAW , the Labour party and Co - operative Retail Services be demand a change in the law to protect shop worker . it be not enough for this to be an aggravating factor ; it have to be a stand - alone offence . this Parliament make law that we expect shop worker to uphold — on cigarette sale , on alcohol , on knife , on firework — and they deserve the protection of this Parliament in protect our community , so no more word ; let we see action on that front . I commend this debate . when it come to safety in town centre , my constituency of Northampton North have see knife crime , and it have have a very painful impact . we all want safety in our town centre , and at the moment that be particularly true of the jewish community , who have be subject to numerous antisemitic incident in the last few week . I would like to tell the House about a shocking example . I can relate this to an incident way back in 1963 — 60 year ago — in Bristol , when a boycott of the bus be organise by the people of Bristol because black people be bar , believe it or not , from work as crew on the Bristol Omnibus Company ' s bus . nowadays , the Bristol bus boycott of 1963 be rightly celebrate — I can see that Opposition member know about it . it be celebrate as a reason for the racial discrimination law that be pass later in the 1960 . I mention that case because something similar be happen today , and over the last few day . that be 60 year ago , but in 2023 there be another heinous prejudice on the bus — this time on the London bus . the independent newspaper today be among many reporting that jewish child in north London be experience bus deliberately fail to stop to pick they up at bus stop . several incident be be investigate by the police , and the Metropolitan police have tweet about this or speak about it today . in one incident , several jewish schoolboy be wait at Egerton Road bus stop in Stamford Hill and signal for a bus to stop . the driver slow down , but then continue without stop . it be claim that several passenger be encourage the driver ' s action , make antisemitic remark and thank the driver for not stop . three day later , a similar incident occur . a 13 - year - old jewish girl be on the bus , and she report that the driver slow down , but do not stop for jewish schoolboy who be wait to be pick up . this be early in the morning on their way to school . at the next stop , the driver do stop , prove therefore that it have be do for prejudiced reason . that be a live example , 60 year on from the horrific boycott in Bristol — the boycott be a good thing , of course , but the reason for it be prejudice . the Community Security Trust be a charity that I know be strongly support by both the conservative and labour party . I have be to its event , I be proud to say , and I have see Labour leader there for year , as well as conservative leader . it be an excellent charity and be strongly support by all . it have report the follow incident in the past few day : a young girl shout out of a pass car , " dirty eff Jews " at a jewish person walk past ; a jewish boy be at a bus stop and a group of youth shout , " let ' s see you run Jew boy " , and then chase he ; at a London train station , a man approach a jewish girl and say , " I hope you and all your people die in the war . " a jewish organisation that work in holocaust education receive a message via its website say : " nazi Israel , which have nuclear weapon , must all surrender and be arrest to stand trial . white - hat hacker blast these Nazis . " in Manchester , two man be walk towards a woman wear a star of David , shout , " gas , gas . " in Essex a woman be wake up by bang on her front door , and a group of man shout " get out bloody Jews . " in London , a woman say to a visibly jewish man : " oh you be everywhere , just like the rest . " on a bus in Brighton , a man repeatedly call a woman an " evil Jew " . a woman at a pro - palestinian protest in Glasgow be hold a sign say , " one holocaust do not justify another . " a rabbi in the west midland receive a phone call say — I will not use offensive word — " I wipe myself on your Torah . " a woman shout : " you eff Jews think you own the world " at a passer - by in London . a jewish boy be get change at school when two other student shout , " you ' re bomb Gaza . " those be just a few example from the past few week . in the 54 day between the Hamas attack and last Wednesday , CST record at least 1 , 747 antisemitic incident across the United Kingdom , which be the high ever total report to CST across a 54 - day period since it be establish 40 year ago in 1984 . right now , in the last few minute , in the Regent ' s Park area of London an incident have be occur . I have be tell of large number of police attend Regent ' s Park because of an incident to do with a banner that have be place on a building which say , " globalise the intifada . " when it come to safety in town centre , it be crucial that safety apply to all . I would want to stand and defend any ethnic group or any person of any faith if they be subject to those sort of attack . I know people on the left and on the right who have spend their career do that . they be proud of do so , and have do so for generation . we now see member of a very small community — a jewish community which amount to less than 0 . 5 % of the total population of this country ; only about 250 , 000 people in a population of 70 million — who be subject to the sort of abuse that frankly would not have be see since the day of the Ku Klux Klan in America , and probably would have be the subject of disgust 70 or 80 year ago in this country . it certainly would have be at the time of the battle of Cable Street . when it come to safety for all , now be an opportunity for those who be not of the jewish faith to support those who be . I commend Labour for hold this debate . I know that this issue go across party political divide ; this be not a party political point at all . that give I comfort , because I know that all those of good faith in this country of any religion , and of none , and people of all age , ethnicity , colour and social background , would know that the sort of example I have be give to the House today be abhorrent and a disgrace to this country . I must demand that the police , the Mayor of London , and everyone else in authority , include those responsible for Transport for London , immediately take action to deal with the example I have give . this be become an emergency situation and the offender must be catch . People who be drive bus and behave in such a fashion should not only be dismiss for gross misconduct , but should attract serious criminal charge . I be sorry , in many respect , to follow the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) and to hear the horrify example of antisemitism and racism that have surface on our street . I absolutely agree that this be not a party political matter ; it be one on which we in this House stand united , and we agree with the action he call for . there be very much solidarity with all those in our country who face such abhorrent and unacceptable abuse . what be a party political matter , however , be the current Government ' s record on crime and policing , which be something we want to address as part of this debate . we know the challenge face in our community and on our street , and business and individual who work in those business be pay the price for a decline in the effectiveness of our policing , and collapse confidence in it . that be the message that Government will hopefully get during this debate . this weekend be Small Business Saturday — other colleague have mention that — and like many , I spend Saturday morning visit and speak to business in my local area on Gosforth High Street . those business be the beat heart of our community . we treasure they more than ever , particularly after covid and the inability to go to the shop and the challenge around that . it be heart - warm to visit local independent business and , happily for those where I be on Saturday , to see they thriving , despite rise cost pressure , rise bill , and ever increase competition from online source . there be a lovely , thriving atmosphere in Gosforth at the weekend . however , that do not change the reality for so many business which be face a shocking increase in shoplifting . across Northumbria last year there be a staggering 44 % increase in shoplifting . that be horrendous , and with the £ 200 limit on Crown court prosecution for shoplifting and antisocial behaviour , it be a real hammer blow for business that seem to be be tell that they have to accept such behaviour as part of run their business . many be pay for additional security just to run their business , and that be damage not only to the business themselves , but to shop worker and those in the community who do not always have the confidence to go shop in their local area . retail crime be a real blight , and it be have profound financial and societal cost . that be why I support USDAW ' s Freedom from Fear campaign . it be important to raise awareness of this issue and ensure that , in the hustle and bustle of Christmas shopping , we always treat shop worker with the respect that they deserve . some of the figure be horrify . seven out of 10 retail worker have be abuse in the past 12 month , 49 % have be threaten with physical violence , and 8 % have be physically assault . the situation be real and a concern . indeed , 88 major retail boss feel compel to contact the Government to demand action , because the reality of rise concern in our shop be happen on this Government ' s watch . I hope the Minister be take note of those concern today . I know that Northumbria ' s police and crime commissioner Kim McGuinness be very focused on support Northumbria ' s limited resource to identify repeat offender and tackle this issue , but alongside that we have disproportionate cut in funding to Northumbria ' s police budget , and current legislation be hold back action that could and should be take against people who be shoplift and cause disturbance in shop . the Government ' s approach to police funding have leave the country with 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police and pcso since 2010 . the Government congratulate themselves on put an uplift back in place , but Northumbria police remain 427 officer short compare with pre - 2010 level . those officer could be combat these issue and make community feel safe and be safe , which be what we need to see . the hollowing out of neighbourhood policing have allow antisocial behaviour to blight certain part and community , prevent people from shop locally and drive people back into their home or back to shop online , when we know that we need to support these shop and make sure that people feel confident to go out shopping . Newcastle have a world - renowne vibrant nightlife , which we want to see not just in the city centre , but in place such as Gosforth High Street and Osborne Road . People love to go out and eat in the bar and restaurant and socialise . we know that time be tough and people in my region be increasingly challenge financially , but the last thing we need be for people to feel a safety challenge in addition . we need our policing to be adequately resource not just to tackle crime and antisocial behaviour , but to make sure that people feel safe to go out and be part of our community and of the vibrant nightlife and shopping experience that we should have in Newcastle . sadly , though , we have see a decline and a collapse in confidence . we have shoplift at record level , with a thousand offence a day , 90 % of crime go unsolved , victim feel completely let down and less neighbourhood police compare with 2015 . although this government have fail to tackle that , we know that there be another way . personally , I think we just need a change of Government to rebuild that confidence and focus , to be tough on those who blight our town and to put confidence back into the economy and our community so that people can get out there and be part of the vibrant community that we be all here to represent . that need a Labour Government . we need one as soon as this Government will allow Parliament to call a general election . I be grateful to the Opposition for call this debate , because it span the interest of every party , although apparently not the Liberal Democrats or the Scottish National party . for those who be take part in this debate , keep our town centre safe be enormously important . that include all sort of concern , stretch from public disorder not only to more serious violence on the street and low - grade antisocial behaviour , which can be an absolute scourge in our community , but — this be particularly important for this debate — to shoplifting and violence associate with it . that take I to the meat of the motion that Labour have put forward for our consideration today . its primary suggestion be that we need a new offence to deal specifically with violence against shopworker . presumably the argument behind that be that the offence against shopworker be so different from other worker or other people on the high street that the tariff associate with that offence will be in some way different . I listen carefully to what the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) say in his opening remark , but it leave I confused , because as he be well aware , we already have section 156 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , which deal specifically with assault on those provide a public service . I think it be common ground among we all that that include shopworker . under the term of section 156 , which I will not read out — I will spare the House that — an assault against a shopworker be consider an aggravating factor . that lead we to the tariff . labour ' s position appear to be — I would welcome further clarification on this , perhaps in the wind - up — that there be something so peculiar about a shopworker receiving violence that the aggravate factor can not be take into account adequately under section 156 . I do not understand what aggravating factor can not be associate with the section 156 consideration . surely the good person to decide the correct tariff be always the judiciary . that be the judge , who have all the evidence in front of they , assist by legislation that clarify in their mind what be and be not an aggravate factor accord to the view of Parliament , and assist by the sentencing guideline . that be the right forum to decide the tariff for this kind of offence . if we start go down to individual offence , so that we have a specific offence for shop worker , what about bus driver ? they be public servant who be expose to the public . it be clearly outrageous when bus driver be assault by the public in the course of their duty , which they be . what about that offence be less serious and require a different tariff from those of shop worker ? that be the logic of this motion from Labour . my concern be that by go for an eye - catch initiative — my suspicion be that this motion have be table to get a headline — Labour be do an enormous disservice to the criminal justice system , when we need to empower our court to assess the gravity of offence and let the judiciary , assist by the sentencing guideline , come to the right tariff . I note in pass that Labour vote against Third Reading of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . in my submission , we already have sensible legislation that deal with aggravating feature for people serve the public , which those on the Government Benches vote for and Labour vote against . it beg the question : why be the measure so bad then and why be it so good now ? the second part of Labour ' s plan be the roll - out of something call a town centre policing plan . perhaps Opposition Members fail to notice that on 23 October , the Government launch their own retail crime action plan . there be striking similarity , because our plan change the priority of the police and require they to prioritise attendance at shoplifting , particularly shoplift with violence , shoplift where a suspect have be detain and shoplift where it be necessary for the police to attend to secure evidence . those be exactly the kind of thing that we want the police to attend , to reinforce the public ' s faith in the argument that every crime need to be investigate and bring to justice . as my hon . friend the Minister mention from the Front Bench in her opening remark , no crime be too small to be investigate . the plan also prioritise hotspot patrol by the police , and it set up Pegasus , which be the specialist police team to deal with organise crime use shoplifting gang as a mechanism to drive revenue . it be important that that be deal with , too , and I be glad that the retail crime action plan tackle that . labour appear to be announce or , rather , re - announce what be already government policy . that lead I to the third part of its plan , which be to announce 13 , 000 extra police and pcso to be use in town centre . I mention in pass that the comfortable majority of that number be pcso , not police officer . that appear to be dress up a £ 360 million investment and ignore the £ 3 . 6 billion investment that the Government have already put into the police , generate 20 , 000 extra police officer in the past three year . [ interruption . ] from a sedentary position , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) say that we cut they . I can tell she that we have 1 , 897 police officer serve in Norfolk right now — more than ever before . that be an increase of 269 officer , which be drive down crime and increase the capture of criminal in Norfolk , particularly in Broadland . I wonder whether we should have confidence in Labour ' s plan . it be either re - announce Government plan or go for an eye - catch initiative , rather than look for serious change to the legislation . let we look at Labour ' s action in practice . recorded crime be 34 % high in area with labour police and crime commissioner than in conservative area . the live experience of all our constituent be that when Labour be in charge , crime be much high , yet the conservative record be that non - fraud crime have fall since 2010 . there have be a 50 % fall in report crime , but let we look at the gold standard , which be the crime survey of England and Wales . by March 2023 , our constituent ' experience of crime have drop by 15 % since before covid , and by a whopping 54 % since 2010 . that be even high than the report crime reduction . finally , I have a conversation with a seasoned senior officer in Norfolk , who say , " when I start out , if we have have the crime number that we have now , I ' d have bite your arm off . " crime have fall under the Conservative Government , and we should recognise that in this debate . the comment of the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) have support across the House , particularly those about safety and security for everybody , and about tackle all form of racism and hate crime . however , the Conservative Government have oversee the demise of town centre across the country , which be a key part of the failure to tackle town centre crime such as street drinking , harassment and litter . after 13 year , their legacy be one of damage decline and collapse confidence , and victim and community have pay the price . antisocial behaviour have a devastating impact on community and individual . over 90 % of crime be go unsolved , mean that criminal be now less than half as likely to be catch than under the last Labour Government . shoplifting have reach record level and be drive by organise criminal gang , with a 25 % surge nationally over the past 12 month alone and 1 , 000 offence a day . shoplifting be not a victimless crime . theft from shop have long be a major flashpoint for violence and abuse against shop worker , and far too many shop worker face abuse and violence in our town centre . the trade union USDAW ' s late survey result show that two third of its member work in retail suffer abuse from customer , with far too many experience threat and violence . six in 10 of these incident be trigger by theft from shop , which be clearly the result of a 25 % increase in incident of shoplifting , as show by the late ONS statistic , so I want to put on record my support for USDAW ' s important Freedom from Fear campaign to prevent violence , threat and abuse against worker . labour support increase protection for shop worker and will table amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill to ensure that there be tough sentence for attack on our shop worker . everyone should have the right to work in safety and to live free from fear . in Luton , we be proud of our community and the way labour - run Luton Borough Council and local business continue to work together to improve safety in our town centre for everyone . it be good to see the Luton business improvement district team work with Luton Borough Council to support the night - time economy and improve night - time security by fund additional neighbourhood enforcement and security officer in the town centre to help prevent crime and improve safety for resident and business . that commitment to create a safe , vibrant and inclusive nightlife for all have see Luton town centre award purple flag status again , which I be pleased to see , and Luton Borough Council ' s 2040 town centre masterplan will create a safe , clean and greener town centre . however , the need for Luton ' s community to step up and support itself be a consequence of the Conservative Government ' s 13 year of failure — 13 year of cut to our local service , cut to youth service and cut to bus service , and 13 year of rise poverty , push people away from our town centre and high street and , sadly , sometimes into more desperate measure . the issue face our town centre would be address by Labour ' s community policing guarantee . it include scrap the threshold bring in by the Tories in 2014 that prevent the prosecution of shoplift under the value of £ 200 , make it easy to take action against repeat offender and end the farce of offend go unpunished . it would create a new , specific standalone offence of violence against a shop worker , roll out town centre policing plan with guarantee patrol of town centre , and put 13 , 000 extra police and community support officer back in town centre to crack down on antisocial behaviour . like other have say , however , for this to happen — for action to make our town centre safe — we need a Labour Government . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , and I recognise what my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) say about community . without speak out of turn , I hope that we might have a debate on that very issue — whether it be in Government or , indeed , opposition time — because it be so important and so current . I very much welcome today ' s debate , even if I do not necessarily welcome the motion that go with it . keep our town centre safe be absolutely critical , but let we remember that they look different from a decade , two decade or three decade ago . our fast - change , ever digital world be impact on every aspect of life : how we live , how we work , how we do business , how we communicate , how we socialise , how we entertain and , of course , how we shop . that have inevitably have a knock - on impact on our town centre , and we also have the global shock to our economy of covid and the war in Ukraine , fuel the cost of live crisis and the jump in employee no long go to work but work from home . it have all be tough for our town centre . all these factor require local community , council and private sector stakeholder to reinvigorate a sense of purpose about what our town centre be for in the modern age , because if they do not , any reduction in activity , attraction , footfall or busyness in our town centre can and do lead to a vacuum that be then fill with antisocial behaviour , which far deter people from come into our town centre . Bournemouth have not only a vibrant town centre , but some attractive commercial , retail and hospitality hub — for example , Tuckton , Boscombe High Street , Charminster , the huge Castlepoint shopping centre , our seafront and Southbourne , where I be delighted to spend Small Business Saturday . if member be ever in that neck of the wood , I strongly recommend Syd ' s Slaps coffee shop , where the staff be very hospitable and certainly look after their customer . I thank they very much for their hospitality . I welcome the Government ' s initiative to support our town centre , which be what the almost £ 5 billion levelling - up fund be all about . for Bournemouth , this equate to over £ 18 million to support our seafront offering , and £ 21 million from the town fund for Boscombe . however , when it come to safety , I be concerned that ever more young people across the UK be choose to carry knife . that be what I want to focus on as the main part of my speech , because it be lead to ever more people be harm or kill by the use of knife . in the last decade , knife crime have jump by 75 % , which be already impact on the night - time economy of too many town centre across Britain . as a popular seaside town , Bournemouth have a vibrant nightlife , with thousand of visitor enjoy the night - time hospitality on any Friday or Saturday night . if we be to prevent Bournemouth from experience a similar rise in knife crime to that we have sadly see in other part of the country , we need action in Bournemouth now . as I have learn from join Bournemouth ' s police on a number of night - time patrol , the cause of the increase both be understand and can be tackle . the increase in the prevalence of young people carry knife stem from peer pressure and a false belief that it be the good way they can defend themselves if they get into a serious confrontation . of course , they be cheap and easy to get hold of . I be pleased that the Government have ban the carrying of zombie knife , but we need to do more . I propose two initiative — I be pleased to see the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire in his place , because he will be familiar with what I be about to say . the first , relate to police resource , be a violence reduction unit . such police unit in other part of the country have a prove track record in reduce knife crime in town centre . they do so not just by increase policing but through work within the community , include school , to educate youngster on the danger of carry knife . I have write to the Home Secretary and the Minister to request that . secondly , let we obligate all entertainment premise such as nightclub license to operate after 11 pm to have metal - detector system — either archway or handheld device call wand — to guarantee that no one enter the premise be carry a knife . I stress that that be not to point any finger at the sector — there be rarely trouble inside those premise — but that would really deter the small but grow minority who choose to carry lethal weapon . it would also offer reassurance to the majority of the public who simply want to experience an enjoyable Saturday night out . such measure be already in place in venue across the country , include for sport function and in public building such as where we be today . I have write not only to the Home Secretary but to Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council ask the licensing committee to make that part of any licence to run premise . a statutory instrument will be require here to empower license committee to operate in that way . Bournemouth have develop an enviable reputation over the decade as an attractive , safe seaside town for all the family . today , there be a vibrant night - time economy try to avoid knife crime , but we need robust action now to stamp out the worrying trend of carry knife . I be pleased to see police number now at record level , even compare with 2010 . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) , be keen to repeat that police number have indeed fall over the period . he be less eager to clarify why tough choice be take by the Government at the time that impact on every Government budget across Whitehall . he really do need to recognise that and put the figure into context . I do not want to see police number go down , and I certainly do not want to see any reduction in any Government Departments . unfortunately , we inherit a financial crisis that we have to endure and recover from . I be pleased — and I hope the hon . member for Nottingham North concur — that number have return to what they should have be over the last decade and be at record level , as we hear from the Minister in her opening remark . I end by repeat my early intervention . there be other factor as well , but our town centre be largely safe because of what our police do , and it be worth give they gratitude for what they do and the service they provide . they do so with less thank than they should be give . as I have stress , they start the day not know how thing will unfold . we owe they a huge debt of gratitude . I be pleased by what they do in Dorset and in Bournemouth . I give they thank for the service they provide . I thank the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) for his contribution on knife crime and its effect on the community . only last week , in my maiden speech , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Robert Peel , who pioneer the lead principle of policing , which ring as true today as they do in 1829 . central to his philosophy be the integral role of root the police force within the community . tamworth no long have a police station with a front desk to report crime , and many have raise with I their dismay at the town centre suffer from increase antisocial behaviour , but it be high - street shoplifting that I wish to raise specifically in the debate . high - street retailer be struggle with the increase cost of their bill and their business rate , reduce profit margin and worry that footfall will reduce due to concern about safety in town centre . to add to that difficulty , under this government they be have to absorb up to £ 200 every time someone steal from their shop . that be simply not good enough . my constituent Onkar , who run a convenience store , raise his concern with I about how damaging shoplifting be to his business . he have report shoplift on many occasion but have not see a single conviction in 13 year . that also mean that he can not recoup the cost of those lose good . couple with that , retail worker face unprecedented rate of violence , abuse and aggression while do their job . last year , survey datum from USDAW of more than 7 , 000 shop worker — it have be cite many time by colleague during the debate , but I will repeat it because it be so stark — report that 70 % suffer from verbal abuse , 49 % receive threat of violence , and nearly 8 % be actually physically assault during the year . the report call for : " investment in community - lead police initiative , which recognise the invaluable role that retail worker play in our community and deliver locally - lead programme to guarantee worker safety . " that be exactly what labour ' s community policing guarantee will do . labour will put police on the beat again , with a major expansion in neighbourhood policing , include put 13 , 000 more pcso on the street . just as Peel professionalise the police force in 1829 , Labour will professionalise neighbourhood policing , work with national body such as the College of Policing to create bespoke problem - solve skill that support community . labour will also introduce a new , specific offence against the assault of shop worker , which will protect people like Onkar and the shop worker of USDAW to ensure that everyone who work in retail can feel safe . finally , I pay tribute to the serve member of the police force , who still do the good they can despite consistent underfunding and under - resource over the last 13 year . I join colleague in call on the Government to take action and back Labour ' s community policing guarantee . I welcome the debate , because it be so important to talk about the safety of our town centre and our high street . in the Cities of London and Westminster , I be proud that we have what be perhaps consider the nation ' s high street : Oxford Street . we also have Regent Street and Bond Street . equally importantly , we have amazing local neighbourhood high street , such as Marylebone high street and St John ' s Wood high street — it be not in my constituency at the moment — which I visit last week for Small Business Saturday . on my visit , I be shocked to hear from shopkeeper about the rise in shoplifting . I also recently meet the Marylebone Association in Marylebone high street , where local people be really concerned about the huge increase in shoplifting . I have speak to shopkeeper and hear about the work that local councillor in Marylebone be do with local retail staff . some be now lock their door and not allow people in until they know who be come in . Waitrose on Marylebone high street have take away so many product — alcohol in particular — because it have have organise gang go in , particularly at certain time , in an organise operation . I would like to see the local police do a lot more to tackle shoplifting , particularly in place such as that . I also welcome the debate today because it be really important that we talk about the local policing of town centre . I know that the Government have put deal with town centre safety very much at the heart of policing . my hon . friend the Member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) mention the Government ' s retail crime action plan , which be important . thing such as the antisocial behaviour action plan and the safe street programme devolve money , funding and action to local community , council and police . I want to highlight the importance of police and crime commissioner and police chief in ensure that our town centre and high street be safe . in London , we have a rather interesting situation with the Labour Mayor Sadiq Khan . crime have go up in the seven year that he have be Mayor , and 11 % in the last year alone — that is 1 , 100 extra crime . research have be do recently on crime on the tube , which have rise more than 50 % , fuel by theft and robbery . People come to the centre to shop or have a good night out in the night - time economy that we offer in the west end , but Oxford Circus and Leicester Square be among the bad tube station for theft . that have happen under Sadiq Khan as the police and crime commissioner for London . my hon . friend the Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) raise that issue when he intervene on the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) , and say that Sadiq Khan have fail to recruit more than 1 , 000 extra officer on top of the 3 , 666 police officer that the Government have fund with the Met and the City of London police . it be important to understand that it be up to local police team . in London we have an excellent borough commander , Louise Puddefoot , ably support by Chief Superintendent Beth Pirie , but their hand have be tie in Westminster . we have amazing neighbourhood police team but they be often take away from their neighbourhood duty to undertake ceremonial and protest duty , because Westminster be home to more than 500 demonstration , marche and protest each year , in addition to the ceremonial activity such as the changing of the guard . I recently write to Assistant Commissioner Rolfe to ask whether the Met will establish a central police team that will undertake those ceremonial duty , so that we do not lose our neighbourhood police team on a weekly basis . it be important to acknowledge the excellent work of our neighbourhood police officer , who be equally frustrated to be take off neighbourhood duty for ceremonial duty . when our neighbourhood police officer be take away for ceremonial duty or protest , a huge vacuum be leave . there have be a huge increase in antisocial behaviour around the cathedral on Victoria Street , Great Peter Street and around St Matthew ' s Primary School . I have be heartbroken to read letter from year 6 child in that school , outline what they see as they walk to and from school : man urinate and defecate in the street outside their school ; man and woman take drug and act antisocially . I want more police action on that . I recently hold a local public meeting just off Victoria Street with the cathedral area resident group . More than 100 people turn up , and they be sick to the back tooth of deal with all the antisocial behaviour in their neighbourhood . it be imperative that the police and Westminster City Council take a zero - tolerance approach to it . I be disappointed to report that in the last 18 month there have be a real increase in antisocial behaviour across Westminster , particularly people who be street drinking and beg . I would like the council to do an awful lot more . I produce a crime plan last year , have conduct a survey across Westminster to which nearly 5 , 000 people respond . their top priority be more police officer on our street . if we see they in our neighbourhood and high street , that will prevent crime and stop the shoplifting . we need to get a grip of this . if the hon . Lady think that we need more police officer , should she not support labour ' s motion ? I go back to my early comment : the Government give funding to the Labour Mayor of London , but he fail to use that money to recruit up to 1 , 000 extra police officer on top of the 3 , 600 that the police have fund . that money go back into the pot , and other police force have take advantage of it . over the last seven year under Sadiq Khan we have see failure , failure , failure in many area , but the big one have be crime . any community across London will say that their big concern be crime and antisocial behaviour . Sadiq Khan have fail to answer that concern . local people want a zero - tolerance approach to antisocial behaviour and crime , particularly in our beloved shop include major brand across Westminster . last summer I visit Boots in Piccadilly , and be shocked to hear about the number of incident it be deal with day in , day out . it be the only pharmacy open at midnight , so people who desperately need medication will go there . with the night - time economy as it be , Boots staff be often victim of assault and shoplifting . they call the police , but they do not turn up . in all my meeting with local people over the last year or two on this issue , that be the big concern that they raise : that when they call the police , they do not turn up . it might not be a life - threaten issue — someone might not be about to die — but they want the police to come and deal with someone comatose on the street or a shoplifter . the public must not give up on the police . they do an amazing job , and officer be there for we day in , day out , but they be be let down by the lack of serious leadership in the police in make sure that our bobby be on the beat and do what they should be do . the public need to be encourage to continue to report crime . I have only just learn that it be possible to report crime on Twitter or Facebook . it be really easy . the person report it will get a crime report and can follow it up . the police need information so that they can put the resource where they be need . to conclude , I welcome the opportunity to debate the importance of town centre and high street safety . we need more police officer on our street . in London we have a Labour Mayor who have let we down time and again . it be not about fund police officer but about recruit they and put they on our street . let I start by share colleague ' sentiment on the speech by my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) . it be important to continue to have cross - party consensus on the importance of stamp out antisemitism and racism across our street . I share his horror at some of the example he bring to the House ' s attention . member on both side of the Chamber who have the opportunity to come and visit we in Mid Bedfordshire recently may wonder what I be do in a debate about town centre . have spend one or two hour along Long Drive and try to find that last house at the end of a road group , they may wonder whether they somehow miss the late Westfield shopping centre at the end of a country lane . in Mid Bedfordshire we may not have anything quite on the scale of Oxford Street , but the town centre and hub in my 48 town and village be no less important . from the fantastic Roger ' s Bakery in Meppershall to the Cross Keys pub in Cranfield , those business showcase the very good of what a high street should be about : the beat heart of the community where we can all come together . but the heartbreaking reality of much of my campaign be speak to people who simply do not feel safe on those street anymore . the Government keep tell we today that we have never have it so good when it come to police in Mid Bedfordshire , but the sad reality for people in my constituency could not feel more different . from Shefford to Wixams and from Wootton to Flitwick , many people just be not feel safe on their street . it be easy to see why : shoplift up 7 % and neighbourhood offence up across the county of Bedfordshire , but charge of offence across Bedfordshire down . the result : business , customer and community leave feel vulnerable and expose . our high street might not be on the same scale as those of other member , but these issue have even great resonance in my community . without the network of support and the visibility that large high street can provide , my shop owner , community and shopper can feel even more vulnerable when government fail to act . that can not be right and can not be leave unaddresse . during the campaign , I be incredibly hearten to see some cross - party consensus on this issue , with my rival conservative party candidate , the local police and crime commissioner no less , concede that police in Bedfordshire be underfunde , that more need to be invest in neighbourhood policing and that new approach be necessary — with , I hasten to add , very little pressure from I to do so . but since arrive in this place , I be sad to say that I have feel that Labour be the only party with serious answer to these challenge . it should not be rocket science : it be about create the thousand of extra neighbourhood officer we need to create a visible police presence on our street , root right across my town , village and community ; make sure we be take retail crime seriously by create a new offence to give extra protection to shopworker ; end the floor on offence lead to follow - up for shoplifting ; and have a focus on youth centre and provision to ensure our young people have well option available to they than bad choice . those be the solution my community be cry out for , and they should not have to wait for a general election to see they . this be a Government who , for all their fault — I hasten to add that I might think there be one or two — have not be afraid at time , in their good moment , to take some of the Labour party ' s idea and bring they forward , from aspect of Labour ' s NHS workforce plan to get more investment to our business . we welcome that . I urge those on the Government Benches to take this opportunity to add another example to that list . do not let my community wait any long . do not fall into the temptation of self - indulgence and pre - emptive leadership bid in the last few month of this Parliament . let we get something do together for our community and support labour ' s common - sense plan to take our high street back , keep they safe , and invest to enable the neighbourhood police my town and village be cry out for . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) , who do a sterling job of represent his constituency with the pride and passion that I like to think I always give to my own speech about the fine constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke . I be delighted that the Government have reach and exceed their target to recruit 20 , 000 police officer , and that 333 be come to the great county of Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire . they will help to ensure that we can have neighbourhood police in our community , as model by the fantastic new chief constable Chris Noble . he be do sterling work to ensure that officer be on the beat , out and about in their community , and stand up for the interest of the people day in , day out . my hon . friend the Member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) , sadly no long in his place , do a sterling job of explain why the motion be more election gimmick than reality . however , I accept and understand the passion that the shadow police Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) , have in this area . he take it very seriously indeed . I be always happy to sit down and discuss any forthcoming amendment , see as how in recent time I have end up in the Lobby on the wrong side of the Chamber more than I should . in Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent , we have have antisocial behaviour hotspot funding from the Government , which the police , fire and crime commissioner Ben Adams , who be do a fantastic job for our community , have implement so successfully that we have see a 20 % reduction in antisocial behaviour in those hotspot area so far . the investment by the Conservative Government under a conservative police , fire and crime commissioner , with a Conservative county council and nearly all 12 Staffordshire Members of Parliament — albeit that we have recently have one new addition in red — have make sure that we be deliver on the priority of the people in our local area . stoke - on - Trent have benefit greatly from around £ 3 million in safe street funding , with around £ 2 million have already be secure under the former Conservative - lead council . that have see investment in place such as Longton , which my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) serve . we be now see a £ 250 , 000 investment in one of the great town of our city , Tunstall . I passionately campaign for that investment to improve our street lighting to make sure woman and girl in particular feel safe in our community , as well as to make sure we have digital CCTV to help the police on the beat . I be back by over 700 local resident who sign my petition and by the police , fire and crime commissioner . sadly , I be not back by the leader of Stoke - on - Trent City Council , the Labour council member for Burslem ward . she tell I to my face that no money be go to come to Tunstall , and that my petition be meaningless because it be on my own website and that the constituent I serve therefore do not matter . I lodge a complaint with the electoral officer at the council . sadly , he whitewash that particular complaint . it be very sad to see the passive - aggressive nature with which she approach that meeting , make a member of my staff feel incredibly uncomfortable , as well as denigrate the very people I be proud to stand up for and serve — the people of my constituency , some of whom be also her constituent . that go to show that Labour may talk the talk , but it do not walk the walk when it come to deliver for the people of Stoke - on - Trent , Kidsgrove and Talke . I be delighted that we get backing and funding , but there be of course more to be do . now I want fund for Cobridge , which , between January and December 2022 , see a 75 % increase in neighbourhood crime . it be important that we get the CCTV , street lighting and alley gate that we need to help that community feel safe . I will be look for future round of safe street funding , and I will be get the signature of local people . I hope that this time the labour - run council will get behind that , rather than play petty party politic . it denigrate I for call out the tiny minority of scrote who deal drug , the scumbag who fly - tip and the savage who create antisocial behaviour issue in our community . I be proud to say it in that video at the time and I be proud to say it again now , because I will not let a tiny minority of people ruin my town centre , despite all the investment that have go in , from the £ 7 million to refurbish Tunstall town hall to the £ 3 . 5 million to open a brand - new living quarter for the over - 50 in the former Tunstall Library and Baths . we have see record funding in Kidsgrove , with the town centre hub on its way , a new pump track for young people to use , and the sport centre refurbish and reopen . all those thing provide activity for our young people and our elderly to enjoy in our community , help to give the police an opportunity to engage with the local community to make sure that the overwhelming majority of law - abide resident who do the right thing day in , day out be rightly reward and treat with the respect that they deserve . until recently , I have a labour - run Kidsgrove Town Council . I be delighted when a campaign I successfully lead mean that it be allow to use some of its funding to finally put in new and improved CCTV . the Conservatives take that council in May 2022 for the first time ever . we have have investment in Bathpool Park , Clough Hall Park , Whitehall Avenue , Birchenwood , King Street and Heathcote Street , which mean that CCTV can help to tackle the scourge of antisocial behaviour that happen at time in those particular area . I be grateful to the resident of Kidsgrove , Talke , Newchapel , Harriseahead , Mow Cop and Butt Lane for back the campaign to give they that protection and aid our police , who no long have to use the outdated CCTV system that require they to wait for a shop to open to go and use a vcr — I do not realise that those still exist — to download the videotape . now that the camera be monitor 24 hour a day from the Stoke - on - Trent control room , people can feel safe , because a Conservative Member of Parliament — the first ever Conservative Member of Parliament in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke — have make sure , along with conservative councillor , that we be deliver for our local area . [ interruption . ] I hear a bit of sedentary chuntering . perhaps the hon . member for Nottingham North be hope for my demise , but whenever the election come , I will be knock on door and tell people what be happen — I look forward to it . we have 70 year of Labour rot our community away , take it for grant and assume that people be just cannon fodder for their vote , but now a Conservative have come and deliver for their area . as I have say , a new Staffordshire community policing model be introduce in February 2022 under the excellent new chief constable , Chris Noble . officer in 10 area , alongside the neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer , be now help to ensure that community and business feel they have the safety and security that they need . I want to give a shout - out to a very special individual , Sergeant Chris Gifford , or " Giff " , as he be know by the bobby on the beat . I be proud to do a night shift with he , and although he do not take the opportunity to put I in a cell and take a photograph , which would doubtless have earn he a lot of money , we do have a great opportunity to look around our neighbourhood and see the police on the beat . I witness the power of the neighbourhood police that member on both side of the House have espouse today . the knowledge that those officer gather on a daily basis , the individual they be able to spot from a distance — I would never be able to identify someone that far away — and their ability to deal with offender be invaluable to the local community , and they have my absolute support . I want to thank Sergeant Gifford and his team for allow I to join they on the beat , and I look forward to do so again soon . we be try not to let the woke arrive in Stoke - on - Trent , although the Labour party be desperately try to import it up there . we do not want the chai latte and avocado brigade arrive in our area any time soon . I must say that I be very disappointed to see in the paper that Staffordshire police have introduce wake guidance : you can not say " spokesman " or " policeman " , for example . I can only assume that that must emanate from the abysmal former chief constable , Gareth Morgan , who be a disgrace to the uniform , regularly sit in his office without emerge to walk the street with the local Members of Parliament in Stoke - on - Trent , unwilling to go out and tackle the issue of the day . in fact , morale be so low in the Staffordshire police force as a result of his appalling leadership — he be busy cry on camera , rather than actually deliver with the bobby on the beat — that we have a recruitment and retention crisis . thankfully he decide to finally disappear and be forget about . now we have a great chief constable with great officer on the ground who be do great thing for our local community , and I assure the House that I be glad to see the back of Gareth Morgan . I want to express my gratitude to those brave man and woman in uniform who , day in , day out , serve our country and our community , risk their life and their safety for the freedom that we be able to enjoy . I hope that if one day — it may come soon than I wish — I be no long in the House , I will be able to join the special constable , although I be sure that will prompt dread in the chief constable of Staffordshire . I want to record my thank to the great officer of that county . I want to thank Chief Inspector John Owen , who oversee the Newcastle - under - Lyme neighbourhood police team and who I recently join for a walkabout in Kidsgrove . I want to thank Chief Inspector Scott McGrath , who be in charge of the Stoke - on - Trent North neighbourhood police team , and Inspector Hayley Eaton , his deputy ; PC Jonathan Tench , who cover Burslem , Smallthorne , Baddeley Green , Milton and Norton ; and PC Rachel Ford , who cover Tunstall with PCSO Sue Wall . two of our fine officer , PC Edward Clarke and PCSO Anderson Cadman , will join I later today at 10 Downing Street to attend a reception to thank they for their service . they represent the very good of Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire , and I be immensely proud to be their Member of Parliament — as I hope to be for many year to come . I be sorry to interrupt , because the hon . Gentleman be make such a powerful speech . I join he in pay tribute to all those officer . do he not think it a shame that they have endure a 17 % real - term pay cut in recent year , and do he not think they should be reward for their hard work and effort ? I think the hon . Lady have forget the 7 % rise in police officer pay that we see this year . I have speak to those officer about their living and how they work on the job , and they have of course raise with I the fact that money can be tight , but they understand that the Government have to be sensible with the public purse and can not be see to run amok with it , and they understand that any more money go into salary may lead to less investment in new equipment and the technology that we need to track more crime . it may deprive they of the additional training for which they be desperate , because that be what enable they to patrol our street . I be proud that our police be do such a great job in recruit 333 brand - new officer for Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire , in addition to the record number we be see across the United Kingdom . it be great news for our community . I like the hon . member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) a lot ; she be a fine Member of Parliament — I know that will not help she on Twitter and I apologise for the grief she will now get — but she talk about Labour run police and crime , and I can not think of anything bad , personally . the wokery that we see the former chief constable bring in will trickle into our police force and we will see the police arrest people for thought crime and nonsense like that , rather than have bobby on the beat where they need to be , lock up the scumbag , scrote and savage — that tiny minority who ruin it for the overwhelming law - abide majority of our great community of Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke . follow that , Jess Phillips . as a member of the wokerati , I absolutely will . I gently point out that the wokerati be come alive in Woke - on - Trent under the current Government . I urge the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) not to be so fearful . I will take my lead from he in praise some of the officer . I want to praise our local copper , a police officer call Orla Jenkins . such a rock star be she to my staff that when she come to visit my office recently , they put a countdown on the board to show how excited they be to see she . local police officer who do the beat heart of the work in our community deserve all of our praise . on the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) about the finding of lot of different people , the Social Market Foundation last year reveal that police officer ' pay have decline by 17 % in real term . not last week but the week before , 24 copper come knock at my door — [ Laughter . ] not last week but the week before , I get in a cab from Euston to an appointment that I have in London and the person drive my taxi be a sergeant in the Metropolitan police . he tell I that on his off day he drive cab . he also tell I that his inspector , also in the Metropolitan police , do Deliveroo . that be the reality , and what I have hear today , certainly from the Minister and from the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North in his rouse speech , be fantasy . I respect the hon . Gentleman ' s electioneer — it be absolutely top class — but do he know what the british public absolutely hate ? they hate it when we stand in front of they and say , " everything ' s fine , isn ' t it great , we be world lead , " but then when they call for a copper , nobody come . I have a security guard from the local B & Q in my constituency come to see I . he have previously work in the Prison Service and he want to talk to I about strategy for prevent people who end up in prison from end up there , and I be grateful to he for that . he also come in to tell I that he get up at 3 o ' clock in the morning to call 101 to report the crime that have happen in B & Q that day because he can not get through in the daytime . he tell I that the impunity that he see in his store be such that , on the day he come to see I , somebody have steal a hot tub from B & Q . if people think they can get away with that level of crime , it be because criminal have never have it so good . there have never be a well time to break the law , with charge rate on the floor and hardly any crime be detect . to bring people back to reality — in this amazing world we be pretend we live in — this apply even to the most serious case . I recently deal with a case where a woman whose husband be on bail for try to kill she turn up at her house with a machete — the evidence be on a Ring doorbell camera — and five day later the police officer come . I could stand here and say that all sort of thing need to change in police force . I be here all day for well standard and well training , and for much more prioritisation of the kind of crime I be talk about , but the reality be that that be like hope for something that can not exist while police officer across our country be expect to pick up the piece of a crumble society in every other regard . I have a lot of respect for the hon . Lady , and we have do a few gig together , include " Question Time " . I hesitate to pose this question , because I do not want to take away from where she be go , but she mention society , which be quite personal to I . I be concerned that there be too much of a " walk on by " society . she mention the theft of a hot tub , for example . would she concur that there be a role for the general public ? I do not want to encourage they to put themselves in danger but , collectively , the people who be around , not the police , be the first responder . they should perhaps react a bit more positively and proactively in call out bad behaviour . I absolutely agree with the right hon . Gentleman , in that I be a proper intervener . I will cross the road to have a fight . I have intervene in many domestic abuse situation while out door knock . in fact , when I be door knock for my hon . friend the Member for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) , I walk into somebody ' s house to break up a domestic abuse incident . after year of work with offender and victim , I be more than capable of accurately risk assess a situation and intervene . I do not suggest for one second that anybody else who be door knock with I could have do the same thing . we have to be very careful in how we manage that . the trouble be that people in my constituency will tell the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) , as they tell I , that they try to intervene . they see drug deal on their street every single day and they try to do something about it — they organise neighbourhood meeting , the local neighbourhood police come along and we all agree that it be a terrible problem — but when they ring about these hotspot , nobody come and nothing change . it be the same drug dealer , with the same dispossess people walk up the street like zombie , every single day . they do not bother to report it any more , because there be no point . on burglary , the police have become a third arm of the insurance company . for a lot of people , the police be just there so that they can get a crime reference number . Orla Jenkins be a crack copper and , more than anything , she just ring up people to give they a crime reference number . that be not why she go into policing . officer be pull away , and I have give the example of officer sit and wait in A & E for hour and hour . as my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) mention , the proliferation of unregulated exempt accommodation be one of the single big reason for call - out in the city where I live . hundred of million of pound of taxpayer ' money be spend on put vulnerable people in inappropriate accommodation in our neighbourhood , and the police be repeatedly call out . when I go on response with the police , every call we go to be to vulnerable people ' s exempt accommodation in the city , and I be much well suit to that work than the police officer , because I run vulnerable people ' s accommodation for year . for year , we have be ask the Government to regulate . every single time I have ask a Minister for regulation to address this terrible , dangerous , exploitative accommodation , which cause antisocial behaviour on every street in Birmingham , on every street in Manchester and all across Oldham , as have be say — it might not be happen in rural community , but it be happen in our urban community , and it will be happen in Stoke - on - Trent — the Government have say to I , " we just don ' t have parliamentary time to legislate on that yet . there isn ' t parliamentary time . " I have be tell that twice . so hundred of thousand of pound — hundred of million of pound — of taxpayer ' money be go to bad landlord , housing crack addict alongside rape victim . this be the country that have be create . it be cause harm , and the Government have the power to stop it , to regulate that accommodation and to end what would be at least half of all antisocial behaviour in the city where I live . they have the power to do it , but they do not , so the police get call out , and call out , and call out forever . that be a waste of their time , and it be something that the Government be directly responsible for , and could end . I could make the same speech about the degradation of mental health service across our country , for every police officer who sit for 24 hour in a house because there be no emergency response any more . there be no protection for people when they be suffer suicide ideation , so a copper sit with they for hour . by the way , in my area there be 800 few police officer than there be in 2010 . so much for " the good since record ever begin ! " if population be take into account , the situation be even bad . [ interruption . ] would the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) like to intervene ? no ? okay . I would welcome it ; as I say , I be big on intervention . rise — go for it . crack ! I reassure the hon . Lady that I completely concur with her view that our brave police officer should not have to sit with people with severe mental health disorder to keep they safe , when that be the job of the other emergency service . I will happily stand shoulder to shoulder with she and badger Government in any way necessary if there be time for legislation , because support our police officer should be an absolute priority of this Government . order . I be hope to get on to the wind - up by about 4 . 10 pm , for 10 minute each , and we can then start the next debate shortly after that . I welcome that intervention . very noisy people from the midland be my favourite . I actually think Stoke - on - Trent be in the north , but we be split hair now . I just think the gall to suggest that everything be all right look really crass to the public . if hon . member want to electioneer , as many of they seem to want to do today , I suggest that they change that patter and do the thing that they can do centrally , rather than blame everybody else . if the remain three speaker would speak for about seven minute , we could keep to time — and Mr Brereton be go to show we how to do it . although I do not agree with everything that the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) say , I agree with some point that she make . in Stoke - on - Trent we certainly see some of the issue that she mention . I be pleased to speak in this Opposition day debate on keep our town centre safe . I know that member across the House care about that , but it be important to reflect that crime have halve in the period since 2010 . that have make a massive difference , thank to the work of this Government . we have start to see great new use come into our high street to fill some of the empty space , and more community - lead event . I know , however , that people locally in Stoke - on - Trent and across north Staffordshire want to feel safe when visit our town centre and high street . that be why this government have be deliver the additional 20 , 000 police officer nationally , with an additional 333 specifically for Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent . although have more police on the beat be always welcome and very much need , it be not the only action need to address the issue that we face and to ensure that our town centre be safe . the opposition motion be far too focused on narrow issue , assume that far increase the number of police officer be the magic solution , when actually we need to do a number of thing . there have certainly be issue when it come to safety in our town and on our high street in Longton , Fenton and Meir , which be the main high street in my constituency , and those issue be regularly raise with I . we have see instance of antisocial behaviour , with shop owner have window smash , and more serious criminal damage with theft from business . it be terrible to see shop owner , who have put everything they have into run their small business , target by mindless vandal . we condemn those who attack and target shop worker — they must face the full force of the law . I welcome the action the Government have take through the retail crime action plan , the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , and now the Sentencing Bill . most shockingly , in Longton town centre , the Dougie Mac hospice charity shop be target , with its window smash . I say to those who have behave in this absolutely despicable way , " think about the impact on local small business that can not afford to repair the damage . you do not know when you or a family member may need the help of organisation like the Dougie Mac hospice . " I welcome antisocial behaviour action plan to help people locally to take back control of our high street . only last Friday , I be out and about in Longton for one of our regular week - of - action walkabout , with representative from Staffordshire police , the city council and Staffordshire Fire and Rescue Service . I thank all the officer who be out with I . we report a number of issue , and those fantastic officer be do an excellent job try to tackle and get on top of some of they . it be positive to hear that some of those who have target the town centre recently be now behind bar , thank to the work of Staffordshire police . in Longton , too many people have be get away with horrific , mindless act of criminality , particularly because of the lack of CCTV . Longton have the low coverage of any town centre in the Stoke - on - Trent area and that be why I have be work closely with our Staffordshire police , fire and crime commissioner , Ben Adams , and I be delighted that Longton town centre be set to benefit from the late round of safe street funding . as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) , who be no long in his place , say , we be receive around half a million pound for Longton and Tunstall from the safe street fund . that will make a massive difference in deliver significantly enhance CCTV coverage for the town centre , which they desperately need , so that nobody can escape the focus of the law . it will ensure that those who target our town centre face the action they deserve . funding will be use to improve the area , include gate off some of the alleyway that have be a major attraction for antisocial behaviour . one of the most significant issue face local town have be the impact of drug misuse , particularly the horrific drug monkey dust . as hon . member know , I have be campaign vociferously to get that horrific drug reclassify from the current class b to class a . the reason monkey dust be so damaging be that it do not just have a corrosive effect on the health of those who consume it ; it also cause serious violence and antisocial behaviour in our community , particularly our town centre . give its psychoactive property , those under its influence have be see to exhibit zombie - like and often superhuman behaviour , with police officer report that someone under its influence require eight or more officer to restrain they . this horrific drug be highly addictive and far too cheaply and widely available in our town , despite the good effort of Staffordshire police and other . it be essential for this drug and other synthetic cathinone to be reclassify , as I have be call for , to drive up the cost and consequence for the horrific dealer . the provision of temporary accommodation in our town centre have also be a major concern and contribute significantly to antisocial behaviour . the Crown Hotel in Longton , right in the middle of our town centre , be use during the pandemic by local authority to provide homeless accommodation . I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a trustee of a local homeless charity in Stoke - on - Trent . give the urgent need during the pandemic , it be absolutely right immediately to get people into that accommodation , but we be now more than three year on and more permanent accommodation be yet to be deliver . the police have say that between January and May 2022 that one location generate 108 incident . between January and May this year it have drop slightly to 76 incident , but that be still an incident every two day . of the individual house , it have be say that " many … be homeless and include many individual with chaotic lifestyle / complex need with insufficient structure or support in place . " it be quite clear that these individual , many of whom have serious addiction and mental health problem , need far more intensive treatment and support than can ever be provide at the Crown . as I have say on several occasion , I call on the Labour - lead council to cease use of the Crown Hotel . I be extremely concerned about the shocking safeguard risk be take by Stoke - on - Trent City Council when it come to housing family with child at the Crown , thereby expose child to totally unregulated setting alongside often highly dysfunctional individual . the current situation be not in the good interest of anyone — not of those house there and certainly not of Longton . as I have say , the challenge face in our town centre be not as simple as just create a few more police officer : we also need more proactive action from local authority , particularly give the need for great enforcement in town centre . it be about not just criminal enforcement but the use of civil power . I have be pleased to support the use of the share prosperity fund for such purpose , create some much - need town centre warden and heritage enforcement officer . the move to online have result in our town centre be in a serious state of decline and our high street suffer significantly . we have some proactive owner , but we have also see owner who be not take responsibility . we need further action to ensure the enforcement that be need . we must use a carrot - and - stick approach , and I very much hope that we will see further action . I bring to the attention of my right hon . and hon . friend my private Member ' s Bill , which I will soon lay before the House . it be very much focused on ensure that local authority have a duty to review the condition of our high street and put together action plan to deal with some of the issue . I very much hope that member from all party will support my Bill and the work I be do to call for further action to address the decline of our high street and some of the related issue . it be not just about more police on the beat . we need to take a number of action to address the issue and I hope we see further government action move forward . rise — order . that be a very long seven minute , but I be sure that Kim Leadbeater will do well . I will do my very good , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be go to follow the lead of my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) and focus on the reality of the situation on the ground for my constituent in Batley and Spen . I also thank she for her one - woman crime - fight endeavour when she be in my constituency . our town centre be the lifeblood of our community . in my constituency , people be incredibly proud of where they be from and often identify , first and foremost , with their immediate locality , whether that be Batley or Spen . the Spen valley be make up of a fantastic collection of town and village , all with their own strong local identity . I know how important that be because I be bear and bring up there and have never live anywhere else . there be Heckmondwike , where I go to school ; Mirfield just down the road , where I have my first full - time job ; Gomersal and Liversedge , where I have both live and work ; and Birstall , Birkenshaw , Oakenshaw , Cleckheaton , Scholes , Roberttown and many more . all of they be special , but sadly all of they be also too often ignore by a Government who over 13 year have show themselves to be totally out of touch with the day - to - day reality of the life of so many people I represent . I have work closely with West Yorkshire police to tackle the scourge of dangerous driving , crime and antisocial behaviour in Batley and Spen , and they tell I how the cut to police number and resource over the year have leave they unable to serve the community as they would wish . they all want to do a great job , but it be increasingly difficult to do it as they would wish . member should not take my word for it : the chief constable of West Yorkshire police , John Robins , make the point very clearly on BBC Radio Leeds in June . he be not political ; he just want to do the good for his officer and for the community . as John Robins say : " we be able to deal with the most serious incident in policing , from terrorism to serious organise crime , homicide and serious violence , but as you go down the list of issue , when you get towards visibility , engagement , patrol and neighbourhood policing , that ' s the one that come under the most pressure . " he add : " the sad thing for the people of West Yorkshire and the UK be that ' s the one the public see most and want the most of . " before the Conservatives try to claim credit for the most recent recruitment of officer , which of course I welcome , they need to recognise the serious damage already do by all those year of neglect , and acknowledge that they be simply give back a few of the officer they have take away . the chief constable compare the situation to people ' s household budget , and he be right . he say that " through cost of living and mortgage increase people haven ' t get the money that they want to live their life with … since 2010 that ' s what it have be like for police . we ' re 2 , 000 less officer and staff , £ 140 m less — I can ' t deliver what I want to deliver as a professional police officer . " I meet the Police Federation in Parliament last week , who also speak candidly about the challenge face by officer on the ground as a result of reduced number , retention and recruitment issue , and the impact on the mental health of their officer and their ability to do their job as they would wish to do it — add again to the mental health crisis that have already be speak about in this debate . I thank the fantastic neighbourhood police team in Batley and Spen for everything they do to keep our community safe , but I know from the many conversation I have have with they that it be an uphill battle . our town and village deserve well than they have receive under the Tories in many way . the cost of living crisis have hit individual and business alike , with inflation , rise interest rate and spiral energy cost make life incredibly difficult . labour ' s plan for economic stability , growth , green investment , a warm home fund , the abolition of business rate and reform of the NHS and social care sector , all on the basis of strict fiscal responsibility , will make a huge difference . first and foremost , though , people have a right to feel safe and to know that the police will be there when they be need . I have receive countless message from constituent about speed and reckless driving , selfish and dangerous parking , when pavement should be for people , criminal activity , include drug deal , go on openly on the street , and antisocial behaviour of all kind , include the use of off - road bike . it be not right that people should be expect to put up with such a state of affair . it do not have to be like this . that be why I be incredibly proud of the Labour party ' s plan for a new community policing guarantee , announce by my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition at conference , which mean guarantee town centre patrol with 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police and pcso on the street . local people will be involve in set local policing priority and we will have tough new sentencing guideline for assault on retail worker , as already discuss — something that USDAW and many other have campaign for brilliantly — and strong police action on shoplifting . local council , the police and the court will be empower to introduce zero - tolerance zone in town centre to help to crack down on antisocial behaviour . I be horrified to hear the story from staff at Tesco in Cleckheaton recently about the dreadful abuse and attack they face on a day - to - day basis . we can not have small business owner and shopworker feel unsafe at work , and we can not have local people feel scared to go into their local town centre or village to do their shopping or to socialise . as well as the many fantastic shop in my constituency ' s town and village , they also have brilliant community centre , pub , restaurant and caf é s . they be place not only where people come together with family and friend , but where many fantastic community event take place and people have a chance to meet other from different background . that be really important for community cohesion and for address loneliness and social isolation . however , many of those venue be struggle . I pay tribute to the chamber of trade up and down the country for the fantastic work they do in build strong town and village , include in my constituency , where we have the Birstall chamber of trade , Batley Business Association and the Spenborough chamber of trade and commerce . they be often run by volunteer and amazing local businesspeople who be at the heart of our community . a future Labour Government will offer individual , business and community not only a promise of financial security , but the physical security that we all need to be able to rely on as we go about our daily life . the people of Batley and Spen deserve more , and the soon the Conservatives admit that they have sadly fail our town and village , and make way for a Labour Government who understand the need of our community , the well . could those who take part in the debate make their way to the Chamber now for the wind - up , which will start seven minute after Mr Hunt start speak ? the town centre have become one of the dominant issue in Ipswich . when I talk to constituent , it come up perhaps more than any other issue , particularly over the past year or two . in the time that I have be the MP , there have be a few tragic case . a few month after I be elect , my constituent Richard Day be kill on St Matthew ' s Street . early this year , a teenager be kill in a knife attack in broad daylight on Westgate Street . that have a chilling effect throughout the town . just a few day ago , at the Clapgate Lane Conservative Club , an attacker hold a knife to the throat of one of my constituent . I have write to those at the club and will be visit it soon to discuss how they be recover from that incident , which be very chilling . the thing about the town centre be that some of the most inspiring people I have meet in Ipswich have be in town centre business . just this Monday , before travel to Parliament , I visit Miss Quirky Kicks , which have relocate in Ipswich and have a new caf é - bar — if anybody in Ipswich be listen and want to go , I suggest that they do . there be also Geek Retreat Ipswich , which of course be part of a national franchise but be actually pretty decentralised . Geek Retreat Ipswich do fantastic work . it have its two - year anniversary recently . its work to support neurodiverse individual in particular should be commend . as the Member of Parliament for an area that have a great history and a town centre with inspirational business , but which face challenge , it be sometimes difficult to get the balance right between represent the concern of my constituent and not talk the town down . that be a difficult balancing act , and although I do my good to get it right , some people might think that I do not always get it right . I can not pretend that thing be a bed of rose , because I think my constituent would look at I and wonder if I be on something , so I have to speak frankly and directly about the challenge as I see they . when I knock on door at the moment , I hear the reality that a lot of Ipswich resident who have live in the town their whole life be shun their own town centre ; they be go to bury St Edmunds , Woodbridge and other area . that be a problem , and there be many reason for it . some of the thing that affect our town centre affect town and city centre up and down the country , and they be not easy to tackle : the growth of online retail ; empty unit ; business rate , which need further reform ; and , of course , the Labour council ' s car - parking charge , which , accord to my recent survey , 76 % of people think be too high — I be just drop that one in there . safety and crime be probably the no . 1 issue . the reality be that large number of my constituent do not go into the town centre because they do not feel safe and secure do so . on that point , we have have share prosperity funding to increase the number of pcso in the town centre during daylight hour , we have have safe street funding and , of course , we have have our share of the 20 , 000 police officer uplift , so we have more bobby on the beat in the town centre . in the Suffolk constabulary , I deal perhaps the most with Superintendent Martin . I have a huge amount of time and respect for what the constabulary do — it will always have my backing . what people be say in their response to my survey be clear . I personally enter all the survey response myself . so far , I have enter almost 1 , 000 response . it be a bit of a weird thing , but I like to feel the response , and I can only do so if I enter they myself — it be very strange and be make my flat look a bit of a bomb site at the moment , with envelope and survey everywhere . but anyway , the nut and bolt of the issue be that , when ask , " do you support a zero - tolerance approach to antisocial behaviour ? " , 91 % of respond constituent agree . when it come to the group of large man we see — the group of large man congregate and act in a very antisocial way in the town centre , who be not disperse by or engage with by the police as directly as I would like — some 88 % of those who respond to my survey say that they think those group should be disperse . shoplifting be also a problem in the town , and 91 % of respondent agree that there should be tough punishment for shoplifting , while only 3 % disagree . the survey ask people which two of seven thing would make the big difference towards get they back into the town centre , and no . 1 of the seven be the police adopt a tough , zero - tolerance approach to antisocial behaviour , so although I have a huge amount of respect for our police , we need more of they in the town centre . in addition , we need they to adopt a more robust attitude to deal with the individual in the town centre who be blight the experience for the majority of my constituent and undermine a beautiful town and its historic centre . if people be not go into the town centre because of the behaviour of a small minority , that be a real problem . on the shoplifting point , we do need to have the deterrent there . there be a challenge here , however , because some of those engage in shoplifting be young . one of the business I speak to early this week say that those engage in shoplifting be 16 and 17 - year - old , so it can be more challenging to deal with they . in conclusion , base on my survey response , when it come to town centre safety , we need to boost the police presence in the town centre , adopt a zero - tolerance attitude and crack down incredibly hard on the rogue minority who be blight the experience of the majority . we need to disperse the group of large man who be hang around and put in place much tough punishment for those who engage in shoplifting . we have a great town in Ipswich — I be very proud to represent it — but the reality of the situation be that thousand of my constituent be shun their own town centre because they do not feel safe . that be not I talk down the town ; it be I seek to represent my constituent . I be not go to stand here and pretend that everything be wonderful . yes , I welcome the uplift and the share prosperity funding , but we need action . we need to turn the situation around , and I will continue to work with the Minister — for whom I have quite a lot of time — to try to get robust action for my constituent . I call the shadow Minister to start the wind - up . it be a privilege to close this important and timely debate on behalf of the Opposition , and to follow the hon . member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) , who give we a fresh dose of reality . I welcome his candour in outline the actual situation that be face by so many of our town centre up and down the country . many hon . member from across the House reference issue with their own town centre , particularly knife crime . the hon . member for Ipswich , the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) and my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) all talk about the rise in serious violent crime in our town centre . sadly , our police be have to deal with those crime more and more . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to my hon . friend for all her work on the Protect the Protectors campaign : she have be a vocal champion for look after those who run towards danger when we all run away from it . it be absolutely imperative that we do more to protect not only our protector — our first responder — but our shop worker and all those who be in our town centre , work hard to improve those town centre , boost our local economy , and make our town well place to live and to enjoy retail and leisure activity . sadly , because of the situation that have be describe today , those people face significant challenge . from the contribution of colleague from across the House , it be clear that safety in our town centre be a grow concern for all of we and for our constituent . my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) and for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) all reference the challenge face by the business on our local high street . they be not only have to deal with bank closure up and down those high street , as well as pub closure , rise business rate and a cost of living crisis , but with a spate of retail crime that be yet another hammer blow . my hon . friend for Luton South and for Tamworth also mention assault on shop worker , which have be a key focus of this afternoon ' s debate . our retail worker go out to work not to be assault , to be verbally abuse , or to have to protect their stock from shoplift ; they just want to earn a decent wage to take home to their family . sadly , far too many of they be be put in harm ' s way and be not receive the adequate protection that they deserve . my hon . friend the Members for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) and for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) , as well as the hon . member for Ipswich , also outline the harsh reality that so many of we in the UK face . our town centre be the lifeblood of our community ; they be a valuable resource that nobody should take for grant , but far too often , they have be . People do not feel safe — that be the reality for many people in our country . they do not feel safe walk up and down their high street or their residential street , and the reality of exactly why that be have be lay bare before we all . Labour have a plan , but the Conservatives have fail to deliver any meaningful change for the past 13 year . later in my speech , I will outline exactly what the situation be , but I will first comment on the contribution make by my good and hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . as always , she be a very vocal champion ; she remind we all not to be bystander . just last week I attend really important bystander training organise by the Suzy Lamplugh Trust . I implore all right hon . and hon . member across the House to take part in that training . there be an interesting exchange between my hon . friend and the right hon . member for Bournemouth East about exactly what society should do — how can we intervene ? how can people feel empower to do more ? sadly , I think we have be far too desensitise , and this have become the norm . it be a sad indictment of the situation that people feel like this be just part and parcel of everyday life , but it should not be and it do not have to be . People can all do more , and they can all be active bystander if they have have the appropriate training . if they feel it be safe , they can do more and can feel empower to do more . I want to link this point to what my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) say . we all need to do intervene more when we see some of the terrible behaviour prompt by what be happen in the middle east , and to call it out . I hope the hon . Member would agree with that . I wholeheartedly agree , and I be go to come on to the very powerful speech by the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) , outline exactly the situation that face we all . everyone in our country should feel safe in their high street , their community and their home , regardless of their colour , their religion or their background . I join he in pay tribute to the CST and tell MAMA for raise awareness of the situation . sadly , it have worsen as a result of the horrendous attack in Israel on 7 October , but everyone should feel safe . I hope that this House have a great opportunity to debate that as time go on . as we have hear , the Government have ignore challenge range from antisocial behaviour on our street to retail crime and violence against shop worker for far too long , and ordinary people be pay the price . by contrast , as I have say , Labour have make bold commitment because we recognise that people deserve to be safe in their community . in government , we will halve serious and violent crime and raise confidence in the police and the criminal justice system within a decade . let we be clear : the challenge ahead of we , as we have hear , be significant . thank to this Tory Government ' s shameful record , we be now see record instance — up by more than 30 % — of criminal damage to shop , school , leisure centre and business in our town centre . in the year end September 2021 , 41 , 500 offence of criminal damage to a building other than a dwelling be record by the police , yet the late figure show that this have rise to almost 55 , 000 , which be about 150 incident every single day . how can this be allow to continue ? the reality of the situation be that the Conservatives have fail to tackle the root cause of crime and violence . over the last 13 year , the role of crime prevention work have be heavily downgrade by the Home Office , and leadership have be practically abandon overnight . rather than keep people safe here in the UK , we have a Government who be more focused on waste taxpayer ' money and chase headline for their fail asylum scheme . the Tories be simply out of touch . on crime prevention , one of the good tool use in London be stop and search , which remove about 400 knife and weapon from London ' s street each month on average . can the hon . Lady outline what the Labour party ' s official position be on stop and search ? I welcome the intervention , and I know that stop and search have an appropriate place , particularly in target knife crime and offensive weapon . it can be an appropriate tool if use appropriately , with the police obviously have the appropriate training and support to do so . it can not be a blanket policy to target everybody in our town centre ; it have to be use appropriately , proportionately and effectively if it be to be use at all . it can be use as an appropriate tool and I recognise that it have a place , but there be other scheme and , as I have say , crime prevention have be overlook far too much by this Government . there be many scheme to deal with that , and I will be outline our plan . I will welcome an intervention by the Minister if he want to reach out to I , but I offer he an olive branch . I invite he to come and spend the day with I in Pontypridd , because I be confident that it will take he all of 10 minute to understand the real issue that we be discuss . and in Croydon South ? yes , happily . in fact , my community , along with many other across the country , recently come together to commemorate White Ribbon Day , which be always a poignant moment to reflect on the huge battle we continue to face as we seek to end male violence against woman and girl for good . one of the most shameful consequence of the last 13 year be the systemic failure to tackle violence against woman and girl , which be have serious consequence . I rarely have to state the obvious , but sometimes clarity be overlook in this place . I genuinely do not know whether man can truly understand the fear and the constant , often underlying concern that woman feel when out on our street and in our town centre . our safety be not always at the forefront of our mind , but let it be know that it be always present in they . I know that woman , across age and across the political divide , know that feeling of ask a friend to take a long and safe route home or to message when they be back . we have all become used to exhibit such behaviour as second nature , but how on earth have we get to a point where woman and girl can not reliably feel safe when simply walk through our town centre ? something commonly overlook be the huge impact that the situation be have on old people , who may be equally vulnerable and the target of crime . I have hear from a number of old resident — male and female — in my own area , who no long feel safe visit Pontypridd on market day . what use to be a bustling day for local business on the high street be now often a busy day for my local police force , who be have to do more and more with less and less . that be the simple reality of the situation : this Tory Government have sit by and make cut to policing that be have a huge impact . visible police on our street remain at record low , and often police officer have to travel across county line , which mean the connection and knowledge of a local area be sadly lose . I be lucky in south Wales to have the support of a fantastic , hardworking and award - win set of police community support officer cover our town centre , include Constable Liam Noyce , Hannah Lowe , Christopher Jones , Lisa Banfield , and Shanie Ross . sadly , I know that many other area be not as fortunate . the Government ' s lack of leadership mean that they have fail to ensure that professional standard in policing be high enough . recent event and appalling evidence of misconduct have also show we the extent to which trust in policing can be shatter , and without that trust , police by consent sadly become impossible . pattern of crime and vulnerability be change , but neither the police nor the criminal justice system have keep up . labour can , and will , do well . as a priority , a Labour Government will crack down on serious violent crime by prevent young people from get draw into crime and criminal gang in the first place . we recognise that there be series issue with knife crime , which be destroy young life , devastating family and undermine our community . to tackle that we need a serious programme of police reform and crime prevention . Government Departments must work together , and work with the Home Office , to intervene where young people be at risk and act quickly when knife crime incident be record . at the moment police force and local authority be lack in direction , but a Labour Government will take action at the root . whether that be by tackle website that promote and sell machete and dangerous knife , or take action to stop vulnerable young people be draw into crime and gang by put access to mental health support worker into every school , it be the Labour party that take safety seriously . it be utterly wrong that this Government have abandon their basic duty to keep people safe on our street and online . the number speak for themselves . Most of all , after 13 year of Tory Government , more than 90 % of crime be go unsolved . that mean that criminal be less than half as likely to be catch now than when Labour be last in government . the Conservatives ' legacy on crime and justice be one of damage decline and collapse confidence , and victim and community be pay the price . I echo the plea of my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) , who ask the Minister to do well . if he can not commit to get the basic right on personal safety , people across the country will sadly continue to suffer . only Labour have a solid plan for change , and never , ever , have the need be strong . I thank both shadow Ministers for the opportunity to debate this important topic , and it be a particular pleasure to follow the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) . we work together when we be both on the Culture , Media and Sport Front Benches . I be not sure whether she be follow I or vice - versa , but it be a pleasure to continue to work with she . I agree that the retail community , which serve this country so well , be the lifeblood of our town centre , and it breathe life into the heart of our community . my very first job be work in a shop , in Sainsbury ' s in south London , not far from my current constituency . I be stack shelf among other thing , so I have have direct experience of work on the frontline of retail , as I be sure other hon . member have have as well . before I talk a little about shoplifting and antisocial behaviour — as a number of member from across the House have say , more need to be do there — I want to talk about the fact on crime and policing as a whole . we have hear many Opposition Members try to paint a sort of dystopian , almost dickensian picture as part of their pre - election campaigning — they have refer repeatedly to an election , and make no bone about it : this be a piece of electioneering . their dystopian anecdote do not bear scrutiny when measure against the fact . we owe it to this House and the public to be clear about the fact . let I start with the crime statistic . the Office for National Statistics say that the only reliable source of crime datum be the crime survey of England and Wales . in the past year , all crime as measure by the crime survey have fall by 10 % . since 2010 , when this Government come into office , crime have fall by 56 % on a like - for - like basis , mean that crime under the last Labour Government be around double the level it be today . look at some of the more serious crime type individually , here be the fall we have see since 2010 : criminal damage be down by 73 % , domestic burglary be down by 47 % , theft from the person be down by 44 % , vehicle theft be down by 39 % , violence be down by 52 % and total theft be down by 47 % . those be the fact , those be the figure and they be publish by the independent Office for National Statistics . [ interruption . ] the figure for the last year include fraud and be down by 10 % . let I talk for a moment about police number . some Opposition Members refer to the reduction in police number that occur in the year follow 2010 , before I be even a Member of Parliament . let we remember why there be financial pressure in those year . that be because , as the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , the former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , helpfully say , there be no money leave . the economic devastation leave by the last Labour Government lead to difficult choice . in the past three year , we have hire 21 , 000 more police officer . rise — I will give way in a moment . we now have 149 , 556 police officer employ in England and Wales . that be more than we have ever have at any time in this country ' s history , include 2010 . Labour have choose to look today at neighbourhood policing , which be a subset of local policing . when we look at all local policing , which include several different subcategorie , the number have go up from 61 , 000 to 67 , 000 . that include a number of category , not just neighbourhood and response . rise — I will give way first to the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , and then to my hon . friend . I just wonder , as the Minister be do such enthusiastic cheerleading for his Government , whether he could remind I who the big cheerleader be for the mini - Budget . I be not sure what that have to do with the devastation that the last Labour Government wreak on the economy , with the big recession for a generation and unemployment at twice the level it be today . I be surprised that the hon . Member want to talk about the last Labour Government ' s appal economic record . let I return to crime and policing , or you will tick I off for be out of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I acknowledge a moment ago that there be some area where we need to do well , and shoplifting and antisocial behaviour be two of those , as member on both side of the House have say . let I start with shoplifting . across the western world , include in the US , Germany and France , in the past year or two we have see a considerable increase in shoplifting , and the same have happen in the United Kingdom . while the 29 % increase in prosecution for shoplift in the past year be welcome , we clearly need to do more . that be why the Government set out a retail crime action plan to do more in this area , as my hon . friend the Member for Gedling ( Tom Randall ) say in his excellent speech . that be publish just a few week ago . it include a commitment by the police to attend shoplifting incident where that be necessary to secure evidence , where there have be an assault , or where a suspect have be detain , for example , by store security staff . it be not acceptable , frankly , that the Co - op have discover that in about three quarter of case where its staff have detain an offender , the police do not attend . I have say directly to the police that that be not acceptable , and they have respond with the commitment they have make in the recent action plan . I expect well , and the police have commit to deliver well . rise — I promise to give way to my hon . friend the Member for Gedling , but I will then give way to the hon . member . I be old enough to remember the last Labour Government . they go into the 2010 election promise a £ 1 billion cut to the Home Office budget , which I be sure would have have an effect on police number . whether it be the coalition Government clean up labour ' s mess or the Labour Government clean up their own mess , someone would have have to make the difficult financial decision in 2010 that my right hon . friend the Minister outline . my hon . friend have a much well memory than some Opposition Members . if we accept that there be nothing the Government could do about the near quarter of a million case — the Minister have use the Co - operative Group ' s figure himself — where a police officer do not turn up when somebody have be apprehend , be he now say that , from today , a police officer will turn up to every single call from a Co - op store ? Chief Constable Amanda Blakeman , who be the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead on this issue , have commit in the retail crime action plan , which I urge the hon . member to read , that where an offender have be detain , the police will prioritise attendance . I expect all of we in Parliament , and police and crime commissioner , to hold the police to account in deliver that commitment . the police have also commit to identify and target prolific offender , and to always follow reasonable line of inquiry in relation to all crime , not just shoplift . that include , for example , always retrieve CCTV or mobile phone footage and run it through the police national database to seek a facial recognition match to identify offender . the technology have improve enormously , even in the last six to 12 month . the artificial intelligence that drive it mean that image that appear to be blur or partially obscure , which a year or two ago could not be match , now can be match . always run image from Ring doorbell , mobile phone picture , dashcam footage and CCTV footage through the police national database will lead to very many more offender — shoplifter , but also other — be catch . I have ask all 43 police force across England and Wales to double the use of retrospective facial recognition in the come year , to make sure that more offender be catch . time be press , so let I move on to antisocial behaviour , which a number of member on both side of the House rightly identify as a challenge in town centre . my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) both make , in their very different way , powerful speech on this topic , as do my hon . friend the Members for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) and for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) and other on both side . antisocial behaviour be a scourge . it leave people feel uneasy when they visit their town centre , and I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich that we need a zero - tolerance approach . in the last five or six month , we have trialle antisocial behaviour hotspot patrol in a number of police force area , and they have be extremely successful . in the area where they have be run — they have be fully fund with extra money , by the way — they have reduce antisocial behaviour by something like 20 % to 30 % . staffordshire be one of the county that have be trialle the patrol , along with Lancashire and Essex . because the approach have be so successful , we will roll it out across the whole country from April next year . it will be fully fund and that will pay for something like 30 , 000 hour a year of hotspot patrol in each police force area , to address the issue of people feel unsafe or uneasy in town centre . my hon . friend the Members for Ipswich , for Stoke - on - Trent North and for Stoke - on - Trent South mention that in their excellent speech . it be come soon ; in fact , it be come as soon as April . I have set out the action be take on retail crime and on ASB , and I have set out the fact that crime be fall and that we have record police number , so let I come to the electioneering we hear from the opposition . the hon . member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) and for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) call for an election in what be an extraordinary display of overconfidence , so let we have a look at what Labour deliver in government . the last Labour Government deliver few police officer than we now have . they deliver double the level of crime that we now have . in London , where there be a Labour police and crime commissioner , Sadiq Khan fail to recruit 1 , 089 officer , despite be give money by the Government , as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) point out . he could have recruit they — the money be there — but he fail to do so . knife crime under Sadiq Khan have go up , and he be tell off by the Office for National Statistics for mislead the public — let we be generous and say that it be unintentional — by claim that knife crime have fall on his watch . in the west midland , where there be a Labour police and crime commissioner , they be look at close police station . finally , let we look at the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . just a year ago , the Labour party vote against that Bill . Labour Members vote against increase the sentence for people assault emergency worker . they vote against make assault a shop worker a statutory aggravating factor . they vote against measure to clamp down on disruptive protest . they vote against make whole - life order for premeditate child murder mandatory . in fact , in the Bill Committee Labour even vote against keep rapist in prison for long , have introduce release at the halfway point in 2003 . we have see Labour ' s record in government and its record in London and the west midland , and we have see Labour Members vote against strong legislative measure . the Government have deliver record police number and fall crime . we have get a plan on antisocial behaviour and on shoplifting . I commend that to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House condemn the Government ' s failure to tackle town centre crime ; be concerned that shoplifting have reach record level , with a 25 % rise over the past year and 1 , 000 offence per day , while the detection rate for shoplifter have fall ; believe that immediate action must be take to stop the increase number of unacceptable incident of violence and abuse face by shop worker ; note that the number of neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer have be reduce by 10 , 000 since 2015 ; and call on the Government to back labour ' s community policing guarantee , which include scrap the £ 200 limit on crown court prosecution for shoplift in the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 , create a new specific offence of violence against shop worker , roll out town centre policing plan and put 13 , 000 extra police and community support officer back in town centre to crack down on antisocial behaviour . water Companies : Executive Bonuses I beg to move , that this House regret that 13 year of successive conservative government have break the water industry and its regulatory framework ; be deeply concerned about the scale of the sewage crisis and the devastating impact it be have on the UK ' s river , lake and sea ; believe it be indefensible that executive at UK water company be pay over £ 14 million in bonus between 2020 and 2021 despite inflict significant environmental and human damage ; condemn the Government for be too weak to tackle the crisis and hold water company boss to account ; call on the Government to empower Ofwat to ban the payment of bonus to water company executive whose company be discharge significant level of raw sewage into the UK ' s sea and waterway ; and far call on the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to make a statement to this House by 31 January 2024 on the Government ' s progress in implement this ban . I will continue , Mr Deputy Speaker . yes , otherwise that would be the short speech . I will not be that kind to you , Mr Deputy Speaker . our beautiful waterway have be pollute by the high level of illegal sewage discharge in our history under this Conservative Government . last year , there be at least one spill every 2 . 5 minute — and that be just the spill that we know about , because not every spill be properly report . over a year ago , Vaughan Lewis , an Environment Agency whistleblower , warn the Government about serious failure of regulation . he say that " it be impossible for the Environment Agency to know what ' s go on " because the Government have " cede the control of monitoring to water company , which end up be able to mark their own homework . they take their own sample and assess whether they be be compliant . " now , we have more evidence that that be precisely what have be go on . last night , the BBC ' s " Panorama " investigation expose yet another scandal — exactly what that whistleblower warn about in August 2022 , which have be ignore by four Conservative Environment Secretaries since . accord to the " Panorama " team , leak record show that United Utilities deliberately downgrade and misreporte severe sewage leak , include discharge into Lake Windermere , one of the most beautiful place in England . of 931 report water company pollution incident in north - west England last year , the Environment Agency attend a paltry six . it be as clear as day that the water company be cover up illegal sewage discharge . that be a national scandal . my hon . friend be make a powerful point . do he agree that the failure of the Conservatives to prevent illegal sewage leak have lead to a drastic increase in illegal discharge , which have affect our community , damage nature , damage tourism , and put the health of kid and adult at risk ? as always , my hon . friend make an important point very eloquently . I be sure that all our constituent up and down the country be appal by what they have see not just on " Panorama " last night , but when they have visit our beautiful waterway up and down the country . raw human excrement pollute our waterway be not just disgusting ; it destroy natural habitat , kill wildlife and damage tourism . perhaps most appallingly of all , it make people sick — child most of all — if they swallow parasitic bacteria and chemical that should be nowhere near our river , lake and sea . how on earth do we get here ? the Conservative Government cut the Environment Agency ' s resource in half . that lead to a dramatic reduction in monitoring , enforcement and prosecution , leave illegal sewage spill to double between 2016 and 2021 . my hon . friend be make a very good speech . like I , he will have note that the Minister be in her place . she be strangely miss yesterday for the Lib Dem amendment on compensation for those harm by the criminal handling of sewage , though she be present in the Division Lobby just 15 minute later . do my hon . friend think that she be allow to abstain , or should she be sack ? it be hard to know whether discipline have break down in the conservative party ; its member seem able to rebel with impunity . when the Minister speak , I be sure she will enlighten the House about what happen . instead of act on the warning , the Government have turn a blind eye to what have be go on . thank to this Government ' s wilful negligence , we see record level of toxic sewage swill through our river and lake , pour into our sea and lap on to our beach . I know that the hon . Gentleman would not want to make a partisan speech ; he would want to make a balanced appraisal of the challenge , which we all regard with the seriousness that he have describe . he mention beach . will he acknowledge that the proportion of bathing water regard as good or excellent have increase dramatically — from 76 % to 93 % , to be precise — since 2010 , when his party be last in power ? Heaven forfend that anyone would make a partisan speech in this place . I do not believe that the quality of water on our beach be acceptable . many campaign group , such as Surfers Against Sewage , regularly point out the very low , even toxic , quality of the water that their family and they wish to enjoy . many constituent of member on both side of the House will share those concern . I hope that this debate be a time for we to come together to collectively identify the problem and move forward with proposal to tackle they . the right hon . member , just like I and member from all part of the House , will share the concern that our once pristine waterway have be pollute by stink , toxic filth . however , I hold the sewage party opposite responsible . the Prime Minister would not put up with raw sewage in his private swimming pool , so why be he happy to treat the british countryside as an open sewer ? let I remind the hon . Gentleman that when Labour be last in power , it produce a draft Flood and Water Management Bill in 2009 that aim to reduce red tape and other burden on water and sewerage company . the uproar at the time force the Labour Government to change their mind . this Government have tighten regulation and make water company start pay for the pollution . the hon . Member can be as much as of an apologist as she like for the filthy , toxic sewage swill through our river , but her constituent will hear what she say , contrast it with what they see and draw their own conclusion when the election come , I be sure . whistleblower and leak document give we a very clear explanation of why the water company be behave in the way they be . if they downgrade and cover up sewage spill , they be reward with permission to increase their customer ’ bill , which boost their profit . few report spill — not actual , but report — and more profit mean big bonus for the water boss . profiteer from cover up lawbreaking be corruption — corruption to which this Conservative Government have turn a blind eye . labour will crack down on rogue water company and strengthen regulation to clean up our waterway . we will place the water company under special measure . as a first step , Labour will ban self - monitoring by water company . instead , we will require water company to install remote monitor on every outlet , with the result oversee by regulator . that way , we will know exactly what be be discharge into our waterway . any illegal spill will be meet with an immediate and severe fine — no more delay , no more appeal , and no more lenient fine that be cheap than invest to upgrade crumble infrastructure . rogue water boss who oversee repeat , severe and illegal sewage discharge will face personal criminal liability . and we will stop the Conservatives ' disgraceful collusion in this national scandal by reinstate the principle that the polluter pay . I welcome those strong intervention and regulation . one of the company the shadow Minister be refer to be United Utilities , which make 27 sewage dump — nearly 3 , 000 hour of sewage — in my constituency last year . those be only the 27 that we know about . we need strong intervention and we need to get the referee on the pitch . ironically , United Utilities be put bill up by £ 110 , so I welcome those measure . my hon . friend rightly express the anger his constituent feel . their bill be go up to pay bonus to water boss who have allow this situation to continue to deteriorate . as I say early , there be a proposal in the motion , which I hope member of all party might consider support , to deal with the situation and demonstrate to the chief of those organisation which be responsible for the sewage outpour that Parliament and the people of this country will not continue to accept what they be do . the hon . Gentleman outline very effectively all the failing of the water company and of this Conservative Government to take action . Thames Water have be dump billion of litre of raw sewage in the River Thames and there be hundred of million of litre of water leak every single day . that have undermine trust in water company among bill payer and our constituent . do he agree with I that , when they have extremely controversial proposal in my constituency and in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) to take water out of the river and replace it with treat sewage , there be a huge amount of distrust ? give the construction impact they will cause in the area and the potential environmental impact on the river , how can people trust they when they give assurance about the safety of such scheme ? the hon . Lady make a very important point very eloquently . she be a tireless campaigner on these issue and I be sure that many people who care about the state of our river will be grateful to she for lead on that work . I be sure all member will be concern about this point as well . despite some of the high level of illegal sewage discharge in history , water boss award themselves nearly £ 14 million in bonus between 2021 - 22 . at the same time , they be plan to increase average household bill by £ 156 . all that be sign off by a broken regulator and Conservative Ministers . that be an absolute abuse of consumer and Labour will stop it . labour will give the water regulator the power to ban bonus for water boss until they have clean up their toxic filth . the conservative dogma that regulation be anti - business be economically illiterate . fair regulation apply across a sector be pro - business and pro - growth , as well as be pro - nature in this instance . business want certainty and predictability . if they be leave to compete against other who undercut regulation and get away with it , we end up with a race to the bottom . good business and investor need and deserve a level playing field , but this Conservative Government have distort that . a regulator that be too weak to regulate lead to weak self - monitoring , cover - up , financial corruption , and our waterway awash with stink sewage . I have be here for quite a long time , and the situation have be the same for the 23 year for which I have be a Member . I accept that thing have get bad . what I suspect we need to do be take the main board of each water company and hold they accountable . South West Water , for instance , which serve Devon and Cornwall and the edge of the Minister ' s constituency of Taunton Deane , cover up by use a sub - board which run the company . it be the main board with which we should deal , and the same go for Wessex Water and every other company that we need to go after . I agree with the hon . gentleman that action must be take , although the situation include bonus have be the same for the past 23 year . I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s recognition that the situation be indeed get bad . that should stimulate all of we to find way of take action to protect water quality for all our constituent , who really do deserve well . I be talk about uncertainty in the regulatory field . the current level of uncertainty do not attract much - need investment in our water industry ; on the contrary , it deter it . I congratulate my hon . friend on the impact he be make on an important issue that affect almost every community in the country . I be glad that he have take such a robust line on the regulator , because it be the elephant in the room . we have focus our fire on the government because they have fail and on the water company because they have take money and fail , but the regulator have fail as well , because it be on their watch that this have be allow to happen . in the midst of all that , it can not be right for consumer to end up pay twice , first for the dividend that have already go out of the door and then for put the system right . I be grateful for the work that my hon . friend have lead in expose some of the same problem as my predecessor in this post . he clearly know an awful lot about these issue , and he make his point very well . let I move on to the broad issue of nature . the destruction of nature that this Government have encourage be unacceptable . as a party , they increasingly position themselves against nature . on their watch , we now have one of the most nature - deplete country in the world , yet they have row back on their net zero commitment . they have break their promise to fund farmer fairly to maintain environmental scheme on their land ; they have try to weaken environmental standard relate to nutrient neutrality to allow building alongside estuary where the increase pollution would tip habitat beyond the point of recovery while refuse to build where the environmental impact could more easily be mitigate ; and now they be turn a blind eye while our river be turn into sewer . economic growth do not have to stand in opposition to protect and restore nature . the two must go hand in hand . labour ' s mission to make this country a clean energy superpower will create thousand of good , well - pay , secure job , and part of it be a national mission to restore nature , include our polluted waterway . it seem that the long the Tories be in power , the more nature suffer . they have little concept of the pride that the british people take in our countryside , of its importance to our sense of who we be as a nation and to our sense of belong . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . be the british people not tell by Minister after Minister in this Government that environmental standard would be enhance and improve as a result of Brexit , and have they not be betray again by this shabby Administration ? my hon . friend make an accurate observation . People be promise one thing but the Government then try to do the opposite . I share the hon . Gentleman ' s passion for wildlife . we need a diverse countryside of the kind that he describe and I make the case , as he do , for hedgerow , tree and so on . among the thing that blight the countryside , however , be onshore wind turbine , which kill bat and bird and which be anchor by hundred of thousand of tonne of concrete , and widespread onshore solar , which eat up agricultural land and turn the countryside into an industrial place . would he oppose those thing ? the right hon . Gentleman ' s intervention start off well but it tail off towards the end . if we can shift to a reliance on clean energy rather than on fossil fuel , we will support , enhance , protect and conserve nature , which be what we should all be seek to do . there can be no more graphic a metaphor for 14 year of conservative failure than the human excrement now swill through our waterway — the visible desecration of our countryside and the toxic legacy of Tory rule . it have often be the case in history that Labour have have to clean up the Tories ' mess , but rarely quite so literally . it be time to turn the page on 14 year of decline and to embrace a decade of national renewal with nature at its heart . that be why Labour have a plan to clean up our waterway by end self - monitoring ; introduce severe and automatic fine for illegal sewage dumping ; criminal liability for water boss who repeatedly and severely break the law ; and no more bonus for water boss who profit from pollution . Conservative Ministers have sewage on their hand . this debate — and the vote that I hope follow — be a chance for they to show whose side they be on : the water company or clean water . if they refuse , the next Labour Government will clean up their mess and restore pride in our river , our lake and our sea . I would like to thank the hon . member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) for raise this important issue . as I have say constantly , all sewage in our waterway be completely and utterly unacceptable . I be pleased to have this opportunity to put on record the huge stride that we have make to deliver clean water for customer and the environment . we be the party for nature . we be the party that bring forward the Environment Act 2021 , although many of the measure in it be not support by Opposition Members . it be a globally lead piece of legislation . if the hon . Gentleman go out on to the global stage , he would realise that we be revere for it , and we now have the whole framework in place to deliver what it state . there be many measure in it to tackle water . I be genuinely proud to have instigate and drive through our plan for water , which be support by hundred of people . it have a huge amount of expertise put into it to deliver it , and we be deliver it . it set out a genuinely holistic plan to deliver more investment , strong regulation and tough enforcement , and make no mistake , it be cross - party . I would like to make the hon . Gentleman an offer . would he like I to give he a copy , because I be not sure that he have actually look at it ? I would be happy to do that after the debate . my hon . friend mention the plan for water , but she will be aware that the previous Secretary of State come to Herefordshire , where she attend a roundtable in Hereford and promise that a plan for the River Wye would be bring to we by 15 September , three month after that meeting . we have yet to see it . I have to say , on behalf of the people of my county , that we be start to run out of patience . when can we expect this plan to come through ? I be well aware that the previous Secretary of State come to the River Wye , and my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) will know that I come to the River Wye some time before her visit — he could not make my visit — so I have some knowledge of the area , and I understand his concern . the action plan be under way . as my right hon . friend know , we have have a few change but the new water Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , be here , and the action plan be very much on the card . I thank the people who do all that work on the Wye , because it be not just about water and sewage ; it be a very complicated issue that also bring in farming and farmer along the river , as my right hon . friend be well aware from his involvement . whatever the Labour party might say , many of the problem that be vociferously raise by the shadow Minister actually start on Labour ' s watch . we be where we be because of labour ' s failure to do anything about it . there be virtually no monitoring . in fact , it be Labour that allow the water company ' self - monitoring that the shadow Minister criticise . it be his party that start the self - monitoring . to set the record straight , I remind the shadow Minister that the Labour Government be give legal notice by the EU on sewage discharge from overflow in Whitburn . labour certainly do not have a glowing record when it have its opportunity . a whistleblower make serious allegation against United Utilities on " Panorama " , and the Minister mention monitoring . it be clearly game the system . what robust intervention have she so far make with United Utilities , which operate in my constituency and beyond ? the hon . Gentleman be right to be concern . as I go through my speech , he will hear all the measure that we have put in place for all the water company , not just United Utilities . as I say at the beginning , I want to be clear that the current volume of sewage discharge by water company be utterly unacceptable . they must act urgently to improve their performance so that they can meet both Government and public expectation , but it be because of the monitoring that this Government require the water company to put in place that we now know what be happen and the scale of the challenge that we face . we have up the pressure on the water company so that , by the end of this year , 100 % of all storm sewage overflow will be monitor . we be take the most ambitious action in water company history to tackle sewage pollution , include use new power and new responsibility in the landmark Environment Act 2021 , which I be proud to take through Parliament — many of the shadow Ministers obviously engage with the Act ' s passage — and there be also the additional £ 60 billion storm sewage overflow discharge reduction plan . despite say that they care about our precious water , many Opposition Members do not vote for all these measure so that the people of this country — include you and I , Mr Deputy Speaker — can have the wonderful water and the beautiful environment that we deserve . it be through our measure that we be now hold water company to account , in a way that have never be see before , with more investment , strong regulation and tough enforcement . we will continue to go far in hold the industry accountable for its action . the Minister know perfectly well that we oppose some of these measure during the passage of the Environment Bill because we do not think it be strong enough . the Bill be very weak in place , hence our opposition . give that the Minister ' s constituent be cover by Wessex Water , do she think it be right that the company be ask its customer to pay an extra £ 150 a year towards fund work on infrastructure , when the chief executive take home pay of £ 982 , 000 in 2021 - 22 ? I do not think my constituent , who be also customer of Wessex Water , should have to pay that extra money . do she ? that be an important point , and it be why we have make so many change to the regulator — I will go into detail in a minute . it be quite clear that customer will not be pay for water company bonus . Ofwat and its board now have very strong power to oversee all of this . I be go to go through the point one by one . I will start with more investment . we be ensure that our regulator have the investment and the power they need , and we be ensure that the water company deliver the infrastructure improvement that we urgently require . since privatisation we have unlock over £ 215 billion of investment in England , with £ 7 . 1 billion in environmental improvement by water company over the period 2020 to 2025 . it include £ 3 . 1 billion in storm overflow improvement ; and £ 1 . 9 billion of that be for the incredible Thames tideway tunnel , which be on track to transform tackle sewage pollution for the people of London . I be sure that our Liberal Democrats present will welcome that , because it be a game - change project . in addition , over 800 storm overflow improvement countrywide have be set in motion . they be under way and will be complete by 2025 . it be because of all our monitoring that we be able to pinpoint where all this work need to take place . could the Minister perhaps say a bit more about consumer protection ? we all want this problem to be deal with , and she be lay out some of the action that she be say the Government will take forward , but with my constituent have see a £ 175 increase and expect that to continue , there be a real question about consumer fairness and what customer be actually pay for . it would be helpful to know what discussion she have have with water boss about their increase bill and what they be go towards . that be a very sensible and important point . that be why the price review process be under way , and all the water company plan be be forensically analyse , with requirement that we have put on they to deliver all this infrastructure , but also always to be mindful of the cost to the bill payer . we have to get investor in to invest in this , but we also have to be mindful of what go on the bill , which be essential , and that be what Ofwat will be consider . member will be hear a lot more about those price plan shortly . there be also a system for vulnerable customer . we have up the number of customer that water company have to help if they be struggle with their bill , so there be a clear plan for that . our storm overflow discharge reduction plan go even far . it require water company to deliver the large infrastructure programme in water company history , amount to £ 60 billion of investment over 25 year . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will carry on for a minute , because I know that you , Mr Deputy Speaker , will be urge I to speed up . for information , I want to say that in a recent High Court judgment it be find that our storm sewage overflow discharge reduction plan actually go over and above the requirement of exist regulation . it would be nice if the opposition recognise that , because it be specifically highlight . will the right hon . Lady give way on that point ? I be go to carry on for a bit . ensure that our regulator be fit for purpose , to enforce our new regime , be absolutely crucial . with that in mind , we have increase the Environment Agency ' s overall grant - in - aid funding by over 40 % and capital funding by 80 % since 2010 . we have also provide an extra £ 2 . 2 million per year specifically for water company enforcement activity . in May we do even more : we provide £ 11 . 3 million of funding increase to Ofwat to treble its enforcement activity , because both EA and Ofwat have enforcement power . in June , in recognition of the urgency of action , Ofwat approve a furth £ 2 . 2 billion of accelerated infrastructure , which include £ 1 . 7 billion of investment , in reduce sewage discharge , include a major project to reduce sewage discharge in Lake Windermere . the shadow Minister mention automatic fine . that idea would backfire , because if the regulator find evidence of criminal misdemeanour , it would prevent they from go through the court and we would effectively end up with even high fine . so the system of automatic fine would not work , but we have just bring in our unlimited penalty for the environment , so the regulator could use that option , but we still need the option for they to go to the court if necessary . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I will talk about strong regulation now . we be bring in even tough regulation than ever before to hold water company to account . in the summer , Ofwat confirm new plan to ensure that customer no long fund executive bonus payment where company have not meet Ofwat ' s expectation on environmental performance . use new power grant to Ofwat by this Government in the landmark Environment Act 2021 , Ofwat announce in March that it will take enforcement action against water company that do not link dividend payment to environmental performance . as I say , we have also legislate to bring in unlimited penalty on water company that breach their environmental permit . the change will provide the Environment Agency with the tool it need to hold water company to account . the Minister may be aware of the evolve environmental catastrophe in Lough Neagh , which be the large lake in these island and a key biodiversity asset for Northern Ireland . it be die in front of our eye because of blue - green algal bloom relate to agricultural run - off and sewage discharge from Northern Ireland Water , which be entirely government own . in that context , do she agree with I that Northern Ireland desperately need an independent environment agency , to try to reconcile the compete priority of the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs — defra ' s sister Department in Northern Ireland — which be responsible for both swell agricultural asset and protect the environment ? clearly , in this context the environment be be fail . I have hear about this incident . I refer daera to our plan on water to see how we be tackle such issue . farming be a big cause of some of the pollution . we have launch our slurry infrastructure grant and a range of measure to work with farmer to cut down that pollution , so lesson could be share . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I just want to say that we want to continue to drive down nutrient pollution from the water sector , which be why we have set a legally bind target to reduce phosphorus load from wastewater treatment — on that point , will the Minister give way ? the hon . Gentleman might be interested in this . we have set target to reduce phosphorus load from wastewater treatment work by 80 % by 2038 , relative to a 2020 baseline . in area where protect habitat site be particularly impact by nutrient pollution , which I be sure interest the hon . Gentleman , we be go even far . in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , we place a new requirement on water company to upgrade wastewater treatment work in designate area to the high technically achievable standard by April 2030 . on that point , will the Minister give way ? the hon . Gentleman be so unrelenting that I will give way . it seem apt that this be debate no . 2 this afternoon . if the Minister have so much faith in the measure she be talk about , why be she absent last night from the vote on new clause 10 in the Victims and Prisoners Bill on the sewage illness victim compensation scheme , despite vote just 15 minute later ? we have such a strong plan and it will be fully operational . I completely support the Government with the line they take last night . I be line up with what we be deal with last night and I support the Government position . I be deal with some particularly urgent business last night . in my view , the new clause be superfluous because we already have power , include those on criminal conduct , for people to act if they have be affect by pollution . they can already seek compensation when there be evidence of personal injury , loss or damage . to get back to my speech , I be now on the bit about tough enforcement . we recognise concern about enforcement . we be work closely with Ofwat and the new leadership at the Environment Agency to ensure that regulator be hold the water industry to the high possible standard . that include bring fine against water company that do not comply with their permit and publish the environmental performance assessment of water company in England , give a clear picture of company performance . where that be insufficient , action will be and be be take . I have be meet all the lag water company highlight through that assessment to challenge they on their performance , and I be pleased that the new water Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley , be continue to do that . I believe he meet Yorkshire Water yesterday and South East Water last night , so we be continue our unstinting drive with the water company . the regulator have launch the large criminal and civil investigation in water company history into sewage discharge at more than 2 , 200 treatment work , follow new datum that have come to light as a result of increase monitoring at waste water treatment work . we have take robust enforcement action against illegal breach of storm overflow permit . since 2015 , the Environment Agency have conclude 59 prosecution against water and sewage company , secure fine of more than £ 150 million . I can not miss the opportunity to say that in labour - run Wales sewage discharge be double what they be in England , so it be hard to take any lesson from the opposition . they have the opportunity to step in and sort that out but they have not take it . the Government have launch the revolutionary storm overflow reduction plan , which prioritise action on the overflow that cause the most harm , to make the big difference as quickly as possible . our strict target will see the tough ever crackdown on sewage spill and , as I have already state , will require water company to deliver that huge infrastructure programme worth £ 60 billion . our plan will protect biodiversity , the ecology of our river and sea , and the public health of water user for generation to come . will the Minister give way ? no , because I be move on to bonus and dividend . the Government have take unprecedented measure to bring into balance the remuneration of water company executive . this summer , Ofwat confirm new plan to ensure that customer no long fund executive bonus payment if company have not meet Ofwat ' s expectation on environmental performance . Ofwat will regularly review executive bonus payment and , when company do not meet expectation , step in to ensure that customer do not pick up the bill . that answer the point make early by the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) . there be no need for the Labour party ' s proposal , because we be already do really strong work on bonus and dividend . I want to be really clear that bill payer come first . for the 2022 - 23 period , no water and sewage company in England and Wales be pay a chief executive officer bonus out of customer money , while half of ceo be take no bonus whatsoever . this be the first time that have ever happen in the history of the water industry , reflect the industry ' s recognition that the public expect well . in March 2023 , Ofwat announce new measure on dividend that will enable it to take enforcement action against company that do not link dividend payment to performance . I remind the House that in each year since privatisation , investment have actually be much great than the dividend pay out . I be go to conclude — will the Minister give way ? I have give way enough ; we want to get on and hear other speaker . this Government will leave no stone unturned in tackle all aspect of water pollution and poor water company performance . that be why we have introduce the most comprehensive cost plan for water that deliver more investment , strong regulation and tough enforcement . by contrast — rise — the hon . Gentleman have have his chance . by contrast , the official Opposition and the Liberal Democrat party do not have credible plan to reduce discharge — we can not just switch off storm overflow overnight , as some suggest — and their mixed bag of proposal would actually add hundred pound to customer ’ bill . that address the point make by the hon . member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) . labour ' s proposal would involve the digging up of enough pipe to go two and a half time around the globe . [ interruption . ] that be actually correct . as I say , I be really happy to share our plan for water with the shadow Secretary of State so that the opposition can see exactly what be in place — our comprehensive , costed plan — and see that we be deliver now . I be really pleased to speak in a very important debate for I and my constituent . the east Durham coastline be a huge asset to the region and to the country . from Seaham to Blackhall , I represent the most stunning coastline in Great Britain . we have amazing beach , with an abundance of sea glass , sand dune and limestone cave . our sea be home to a formidable group of open water swimmer , brave the North sea at all time of the year . our marina at Seaham provide access to various water sport , include canoe , paddleboarde and windsurfing . Crimdon Dene visitor hub and caf é be encourage more people to visit and enjoy our east Durham coastline . on the sea front and the clifftop of east Durham , there be also an array of art , iconic location and national heritage . Seaham have a newly decommission field gun , a further attraction , and be home to Tommy , a Ray Lonsdale world war one sculpture , an artwork that be vote the Sky Arts no . 1 public artwork and attract a large number of people to our coastline . from Easington , the site of the former colliery , the view stretch from County Durham to North Yorkshire . a nature reserve sit at the centre of the once thriving industrial heart of the community , and it be also the site of a memorial garden that honour the 83 miner and rescuer who lose their life in the terrible disaster at Easington colliery in 1951 . Blackhall be another site of special scientific interest . the wildflower and grass of the clifftop offer peaceful view , with easy access to Blackhall ' s beach cave . the coastline be also home to a unique music and film heritage . my constituency be the backdrop to the iconic " who ' s next " album cover and the location for a number of film , include " get Carter " , " Billy Elliot " and , most recently , " The Old Oak " . that be why I be passionate about protect our precious coastline . industrial spoil from coal mining once blight it and the beach be blacken with coal dust and abandon colliery infrastructure , but we reclaim the coastline for nature . the " turn the Tide " project remove industrial pollution from the east Durham coastline , and the improvement have make the environment more enjoyable for everyone . coal spoil be once a visible scar on the environment , but water pollution represent a more insidious and more discreet risk to our health , welfare and environment . I be interested by the Minister ' s comment about personal injury , because water pollution hit the headline recently when we have the ironman world triathlon championship series at Sunderland . there be three element to the event , cycling , running and swimming , and after the swimming element , 88 of the athlete fall ill from swim in water contaminate with E . coli . I do not know what redress there be for personal injury , but we know the source of the problem . Northumbrian Water , once a publicly own authority but now under chinese ownership , pollute our sea whenever it rain . I look yesterday at the Safer Seas & Rivers Service app , which I recommend to all hon . member ; we have have some terrible weather in the north - east , and as the snow thaw Northumbrian Water be pollute our sea at three sewage overflow in my constituency . that be just one of 164 incident of Northumbrian Water dump raw sewage in my constituency . my hon . friend be make a powerful point about degradation . the Minister seem to suggest that her Government be revere for their work on this issue . do his constituent share my constituent ' view that , on the contrary , this be a Government of the effluent for the effluent ? what an excellent intervention , if I may say so . the suggestion that thing be get well be not the experience of my constituent — and as for the Minister ' s commitment to address the issue , my feeling be that she be simply go through the motion . we need a solution . I be an old - school socialist . clean water , river and sea be very important , and private water company have fail in their duty of care . those company enjoy a privileged position : no competition , a weak regulator and a compliant Government . I want to end those private monopoly — we should control and run water in the national interest — but I be a realist : the Tories and my own party do not have the appetite for nationalisation , so I will propose an alternative . private water company have extract huge dividend since privatisation , which they have secure through high bill and a failure to invest , and by ramp up debt . in December 2022 , the Guardian report that water company have pay £ 69 . 5 billion in dividend . over the same period , they have rack up £ 54 billion in debt . company promise to invest in infrastructure , but only by pass on high cost to consumer . why do we accept water company rip we off , pollute our water and tell we to pay to clean up their mess ? the Government must take control of the situation . I support the following : the Government must block all future dividend payment until water company meet set standard include clean water target , debt target , investment target and low consumer bill ; we need a zero dumping policy — sewage overflow must be an exception , not the normal practice ; we need a sustainable water industry , which mean an end to the practice of borrow in order to pay dividend ; and new and modern infrastructure must be prioritise before dividend . the promise of privatisation be always well service and low cost , but we have see bad service and high bill every time . private company be drive by profit . the proposal that I have set out be a mean of deliver the public interest . dividend and profit should be award only when private company deliver the promise service . if we can not spend in the next Parliament , we need to regulate and reform . if privatised water be to remain , we must ensure that it work and benefit the people we all represent . it be a real pleasure for I to take part in this debate . I be bear and raise in the heart of Cornwall , have live there my whole life , and have always enjoy the sea . member who follow I on any my private social medium platform will know that I be find in , on or beside the sea at just about every possible opportunity . therefore , I have take a very keen interest in the whole issue of water quality , particularly bathe water and sewage discharge , throughout my life , long before I be first elect to this House . we have to start by say that this be not a new issue . let we remember that Surfers Against Sewage be start in 1990 specifically to raise awareness about it and deal with it . at that time , less than 25 % of UK bathing water be at a minimum acceptable standard for bathing , whereas there be now only one beach in my constituency that do not meet that standard . I be sorry , but pretend that thing be bad than they have ever be be absolute nonsense . we have see incredible progress on this issue over many year . I remember very clearly that the Labour Government do absolutely nothing in 13 year to address the issue — zero . when we come into office in 2015 , we be the first ever government to take this matter seriously and start to address it . what my hon . friend have just say be not actually accurate . labour do not just do nothing ; in 2006 , it cut a deal with the water company to agree self - assessment on their environmental performance . do he agree that that be bad than nothing ? my hon . friend make a good point . Labour actually make the situation bad — so much so that in 2009 , the Labour Government be take to court by the EU for fail to deal with the issue — so I be sorry , but we will take no lecture whatsoever from the Opposition Front Benchers about deal with it . we be the first government who have ever take this matter seriously and take action to start address it . we do not even have to think back in history , because we have a live example right before we today : in the one part of the UK where the Labour party be in government , the situation be far bad than in England . Wales be responsible for 25 % of sewage discharge for the whole of England and Wales , yet it have only 5 % of the population , so again , we will take no lecture from the opposition . it be this Government who first introduce substantial monitoring of storm overflow . when Labour leave office , 7 % of storm overflow be monitor ; that figure be now 91 % , and it will reach 100 % in the next few week . I place on record my thank — and , I believe , our thank — to one of my cornish colleague , my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , who start the process of deal with this issue when he come into DEFRA . I do not believe we would be in the position we be in today with monitoring , or with any of the other measure , if he have not initiate that work when he first become a DEFRA Minister . the Liberal Democrats often claim that they be very interested in sewage , yet they fail to mention that the water Minister between 2013 and 2015 be the former Member for North Cornwall , a liberal Democrat . what do he do to improve the situation ? nothing . my hon . friend make an excellent point . it be not until 2015 that the Government start to take this issue seriously and take action ; it do not even happen under the coalition Government . therefore , all the crowing from the Liberal Democrats that they regard this as a really important issue be nonsense , because when they be in government , they initiate nothing to address it . it be clear that there be now far great public awareness and concern about this issue , and it be much high up the political agenda than ever before , and rightly so . some of we , particularly in Cornwall , have be push for that to be the case for a very long time , so I welcome the fact that sewage discharge be now a much big priority and there be much great public awareness of they . however , again , let we be frank : people be only aware of what be go on because of the increase monitoring that we have introduce . for 13 year under Labour , all of this sewage be be discharge into the sea , but no one know about it because there be no monitoring . it be only because of the increase in monitoring over the past few year that we know what be go on . the first step towards deal with an issue be to know what be happen . the first step that the Government take be to introduce monitoring , and we now have the datum that enable we to hold the water company to account . before we have that monitoring and that datum , we could not hold they to account because we do not know what be go on ; now , we be hold they to account . since 2015 , there have be 58 prosecution of water company for fail to fulfil their obligation , and £ 141 million have be secure in fine . that money be be invest in environmental improvement and in reduce pollution . we must always remember that under this government , it be the water company that get take to court ; under Labour , it be the Government who get take to court . we now have a plan to reduce storm overflow , which I have the great privilege of launch during my brief time as water Minister . I acknowledge that my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) put in most of the legwork to produce that plan ; I just have the glory moment of cross the t ' s , dot the I ' s and launch it . we now have a plan to invest £ 56 billion in upgrade the infrastructure to reduce sewage discharge , but we have to be honest with the british public . we hear comment from Opposition Members like , " let ' s stop sewage immediately ; we could do it straightaway , " but that be nonsense . we be talk about victorian infrastructure that have be in place for over 100 year : it be go to take an awful lot of money and an awful lot of time to upgrade and improve that infrastructure to address this issue . however , we now have a plan to make sure that it will happen , and we can hold the water company to account to ensure that they make that investment and deliver on that plan . there be also a myth — I be sure Labour Members will mention it today — that somehow Conservative Members vote to allow water company to continue to discharge sewage . it be a lie : it be not the truth . actually , we be the one who bring forward the Environment Act 2021 , which contain all the measure that enable we to hold the water company to account . the opposition do not support the Act so , if anything , they be the one who try to stop we take action against the water company , and we be the one who vote for the Act and all the measure it contain . we need to be absolutely clear that we be the one take action and we be the one take this matter seriously . the motion mention director ’ bonus . it be absolutely right that director of water company who fail to keep their obligation when it come to sewage discharge and other form of pollution should not be reward because of that , but we be already do it . Ofwat have confirm that it have the power to review both dividend payment and bonus where water company fail to keep to their environmental obligation . I know it be difficult for Labour Members , because they probably sit there look at all the thing we be do and think , " why on earth didn ' t we do this when we be in government for 13 year ? " I know it must be difficult for they , because they do absolutely nothing . they make thing bad , not well , and it be this Government who be deliver on this issue . I take this issue seriously . I have take this issue seriously for many year — long before I come to this House — and it be right that the public be now much more aware of how important it be , but let we get real : we be deal with it . we be take the necessary step to reduce the amount of sewage that will be discharge , and I welcome that . I believe that this Government will continue to deliver on our plan , and we will see thing continue to improve in the year ahead . I will try to do well than that . I want to talk for a few minute about Thames Water , which have the job of supply water and sewerage service to about 17 million people in London and the south - east . I will speak , first , about my constituent ' experience of Thames and , secondly , about the company itself and the people who run it . last night , as be often the case , my constituent be on social medium talk about Thames , because a large number of people in West Kensington have be cut off without water for a day or so . this be the exchange : " how long until we have water as it have be a day without supply for many and people need drinking water " ? the answer from Thames be : " sorry for that . I have check with my system there no timeframe mention in this issue . this be an unplanned event our team have hardly work this issue you be water be back to normal . " the exchange go on : " so will they give we bottle of drinking water please " ? the answer from Thames be : " I have check with my system right now there be no bottle water available . your water be back to soon normal our team have work hardly this issue . " that be typical , I be afraid , of its communication , and of the contempt , frankly , with which Thames treat its customer . about a month ago , the whole of Shepherd ' s Bush — that be ten of thousand of people in East Acton — do not have water for three day . there be no communication from Thames whatsoever . I be on the phone to it the whole weekend . I be get report , I visit where the leak and the break be , and I put it on social medium . I believe that be Thames ' s job , but it do not do that . it simply do not do it , for whatever reason — whether it be unable to or it just do not care , I do not know . these massive break in pipe happen all the time . I think I know why they happen : it be because Thames do not maintain its pipe , and the pressure mean that they burst . we often get a number of burst at one time , and then it can spend up to a month or more repair they , which involve dig up the road and shut off road . in that way , it be a law unto itself . that be equally the case with sewer flooding . two and a half year ago , there be heavy rain in London , and hundred of my constituent ' home , basement and ground floor be flood with raw sewage . for some of those property , it be the third or fourth time it have happen . when it happen back in the 2000 , there be the Counters Creek flood alleviation scheme . it cost several hundred million pound and be go to relieve sewer flooding in west London . I spend many hour in many meeting talk to Thames Water and constituent about how it be go to relieve the problem . frankly , I can not think of a much bad problem someone could have than to live with the risk of their house be flood with raw sewage , whether it come through the front door , up through the toilet , or whatever . the Counters Creek flood alleviation scheme be comprehensive , but at that point , Thames say that it be not go to do it , and that instead it would fit non - return valve or flip — flood local improvement process . non - return valve be simply valve that stop the sewage go back up a pipe when there be heavy rain . flip be slightly more sophisticated and be pump that be bury under the roadway . they cost a fraction of the cost of a major renovation scheme and would therefore have save Thames Water a considerable amount of money . ten year on , and two and a half year after the last significant flood , very few of those thing have be fit . when resident apply for they , the answer be that they be low risk , even though some of the people who be at a low risk have have their home flood more than once . to my mind , that be no more than a cost - save exercise and do the bare minimum . typically , flood tend to happen in the summer , but they can happen in winter . when we have the next flood — as we undoubtedly will — perhaps the same house will flood again , or perhaps those house will have be lucky enough to get a flip or a non - return valve , in which case the neighbouring property that do not have they will be flood with even more sewage . do the Minister really think that Thames Water be a responsible public utility when it act in such a way ? the Minister mention Tideway . I agree that that be a good project , and it have be broadly well handle , despite be build during the covid period . it be mainly on time and to budget , and it will relieve about 95 % of the raw sewage go into the Thames . one of the bad outflow be at Hammersmith pumping station , and I will be delighted if we have no more spout of raw sewage go up next to Hammersmith bridge , as we do a couple of year ago . it be not Thames Water who build that ; it be a separate company and not part of Thames Water . as I have say , Thames Water do not appear to be able to run a tap , to flush a toilet or to manage its own finance . the company be partly own by the government of China and Abu Dhabi . last summer it summarily get rid of its chief executive , despite pay she £ 1 . 5 million a year . the company announce with a fanfare that it have manage to obtain £ 500 million of new investment from its shareholder , but accord to the Financial Times last week — this be report again today — the actual status of that money may well be a loan rather than equity or new investment . that , I hope , be something the Government will want to look into . there have be a series of asset - stripping , incompetent , careless owner of Thames Water during the period of privatisation , the bad of which be probably Macquarie , which own it for 11 year and pay out an estimate £ 3 billion in dividend . its senior executive take huge payment in the ten of million over that time , and be now live a life of luxury as a consequence . that be the legacy of privatisation and this Government ' s record on private utility . the hon . Gentleman be right : in my view there be a failure of regulation in the noughtie , because during that period the financial engineering take place to load those business with debt . do he accept that that manipulation of debt be complete by 2009 ? if he do , what do he have to the say about the Labour Government in power at the time ? be they asleep at the wheel ? I accept that the debt have be load and that the gearing be completely out of proportion . under Macquarie , Thames Water ' s debt go from £ 4 billion to £ 10 billion , but it be now at £ 14 billion under the current owner . I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman be listen to the radio or have read the medium this morning , but Thames appear to be ask for a 40 % rise in bill . it have £ 14 billion - worth of debt , and accord to press report , it might run out of money by next April . that would be the second scare within a year . this be a company that almost have a licence to print money . it have 17 million customer , all pay their bill every year . its job be obviously not straightforward , but it be not the most difficult job in the world . it can not perform any part of that function well , and it can not run its own company well , and that be the parlous state into which it have descend . I therefore understand that the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee have call Thames Water before it tomorrow to answer some question . if the Select Committee can do that , what be the Government do ? I hear an extraordinarily wittering , complacent speech from the Minister the hon . member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) just now . there be no grasp of the risk . a major company could go under , with a failure to supply a basic service . what more basic service be there than the supply of water and sewerage service to a large part of the population in this country ? there be no understanding of the risk or what the remedy need to be . this be another area where this Government have fail completely . it be their job , which I do not believe they will do in the small amount of time they have leave , to take this issue seriously . they will have to , because otherwise my constituent and those in London and the south - east will not be able to have any realistic purveyor of water and sewerage service go forward . I hope that when the Minister the hon . member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) wind up , he show some awareness of those need . rise — order . a significant number of member still wish to participate . I will not put a time limit on at present , but it would be helpful if member could keep their contribution to about seven minute . my constituent be not only bill payer and user of Thames Water , but they live with its decade - long failure to plan and invest . the River Thames flow alongside Chiswick , Brentford and Isleworth , where we walk , kayak , row and paddleboard . too often , the Thames be pollute with dilute sewage just about every time it rain . mogden sewage treatment work , cover 55 acre , sit in my constituency . for decade , Mogden have be a regular source of pungent sewage smell and a virulent subspecie of mosquito . in February 2020 , the street and park of Isleworth and the pristine Duke of Northumberland ' s river be flood with raw — not even dilute — sewage , because the main sewage intake into Mogden back up and punch a hole through into the river . that be a direct result of maintenance failure and that issue not appear on the risk assessment register . this debate matter to my constituent . in October 2020 , 2 billion litre of dilute sewage be discharge into the River Thames at Isleworth Ait over just two day . that be two third of the total discharge in 2020 . in 2022 , that same sewer storm outflow spill 20 time for a total of 164 hour , discharge again into the River Thames . just across the river at Petersham , another outfall regularly discharge . all of that be 10 year after mogden sewage treatment work have its treatment capacity almost double . I be struggle to find any evidence of any fine that Thames Water have receive for the discharge I have just describe . that be because they be plan . they be permit discharge . the discharge of which we be notify be the only one we know about , because , as the BBC " Panorama " investigation find , water company appear to be cover up illegal sewage discharge , make sewage pollution disappear from official figure . the water company not only process our sewage and storm run - off , but supply fresh water . as other member have already say , however , too much of that fresh water be waste through pipe leak . after too many water main burst flood shop and home , we have , as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) describe , a programme to replace the victorian fresh water pipe across the Thames Water area , but it seem to have stop and we be just suppose to wait until the next burst happen . there be so much more that Thames Water could be do to stop the leakage . the overall picture of our water situation in the Thames Water area be a failure of oversight — a failure to upgrade the water and sewage infrastructure continually as London ' s population grow , and as drought and heavy rain become regular aspect of our weather . for over 20 year — first as a councillor , and as an MP since 2015 — I have be pressure Thames Water to take action , as have the Mogden Residents ' Action Group , Hounslow London Borough Council and other resident . as a result of a legal challenge by resident , Thames Water be force to increase the capacity of the sewage treatment work , to improve its reporting and to do continuous mosquito eradication . Thames Water have also do some other work . we have have to put up with recent roadwork locally , because it have now instal a pipe to pump excess methane into the main gas grid , which be to be welcome . we have have the multibillion - pound tideway project to take sewage out of the Thames , but it do not benefit those of we who live upstream of Hammersmith , so we be now face with another expensive tunnelling project : the Teddington direct river abstraction scheme , which will address not high rainfall period but period of drought . the Teddington DRA be design to take million of litre of water from the Thames , pump it across London to the Lee valley , and then replace that water with treat effluent from Mogden . that mean a new pipeline and access shafts , so we be go to have a building site the size of half a football pitch on the Ivybridge estate , a low - income council estate in my constituency . the project will involve tunnel beneath home . it will also potentially impact on biodiversity in the River Thames and on riverside walk , and impact on river user as well . be there really no alternative to this three - year construction project across my constituency and those neighbour it ? the Environment Agency certainly raise doubt about the scheme when it write to Thames Water in March this year . the Teddington DRA will save only a 10th of the 630 million litre lose per day through leak . what be the reward for this manage incompetence ? Thames Water ' s chief executive , Sarah Bentley , receive a £ 496 , 000 pay - out last year . at least she have the good grace this year to say that it " just do not feel like the right thing to take performance - relate pay this year . " I support the opposition ' s motion call on the Government to enable Ofwat to block company boss ' bonus where high level of sewage be be pump into river ; to end self - monitoring and force all company to monitor every single water outlet ; to ensure that water boss face personal criminal liability for extreme and persistent lawbreaking : and to introduce severe and automatic fine for illegal discharge that boss can not ignore . we should not be dependent on whistleblower to find out about failure . with a boost in the power of the water regulator , water boss who fail to meet high environmental standard on sewage pollution must be meet with significant sanction to ensure that they can not profit from damage the environment . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way and apologise more generally for jump up and down like a jack - in - the - box . be she aware of Ofwat ' s press release of 29 June entitle " ofwat deliver decision on executive pay " ? in that , it say that it have recently announce " new power that will enable it to stop the payment of dividend " directly and in full if a company do not meet its performance target , include environmental target . it go on to say : " in line with the new guidance " , which it publish that day , " Ofwat expect water company remuneration committee to take full account of performance for customer and the environment " , and that , if they do not , Ofwat will intervene on every single basis . do she not accept that the power be already in place and be use ? I would like to see they — I find that Ofwat be just too powerless . on dividend , Thames Water have not pay they for five year — so it keep tell I — but that do not stop it until this year pay its senior executive very high dividend . why should my hard - press constituent face an average increase of £ 39 in their water bill ? they have lose trust in Thames Water after year and year of scandal , put up with smell , mosquito , building work , flooding and sewage through their street and park . have meet and talk to Thames Water for almost 20 year as a councillor and an MP , it be clear to I that it still have a lot to do to clean up its act . bill be rise , service standard remain poor , and we continue to see raw sewage be pump into the Thames . rise — Order . I have look at the clock again . after the next speaker , I will have to put a six - minute time limit on speech . like every MP across the House , I receive email and postcard every week from constituent about the state of our environment , our nature and our planet . it be clear why our community care so much about this : we be one of the most nature - deplete country in the world and we be live in a dirty water emergency . the two main river in the Wakefield district , the River Calder and the River Aire , be the second and third most polluted river in the country . last year , there be 1 , 316 discharge of raw sewage into Wakefield ' s river and waterway , total 5 , 816 hour — the equivalent of eight month non - stop . it be no surprise that that be happen under the Tories ' watch . the Government see action on nature and pollution as something they must do rather than something they want to do . this be not the first Opposition day debate where Labour have call for tough action on polluter — but , time after time , the Conservatives block it . we have see the Environment Agency ' s budget cut , lead to less monitoring and enforcement of the law . we have see the Office for Environmental Protection launch an investigation into whether the Government and the water company may have break the law over sewage discharge , and we have see mealy - mouthed statement and weak plan from a Conservative Government in denial . labour be clear that the polluter should pay . early this year , we see water company ask for more money from customer to fix the problem . with a £ 111 increase for constituent in Yorkshire , it be no wonder that they face such a backlash . if company do not improve , the money should come from dividend go to shareholder , not from increase people ' s bill . those boss who continue to break the rule repeatedly should face professional and personal sanction for their behaviour . the soft - touch approach have to end . to allow we to get the information we need about the sewage be pump into our lake and river , we need mandatory monitoring of all sewage outlet as well as proper resourcing for the Environment Agency so that the law can be enforce . we will solve this problem only with tough action and by stick to our commitment . I do not want my kid to think that the current state of our waterway be normal . we owe it to future generation to sort this out once and for all , which be why I urge member to support labour ' s motion . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate in support of the motion . I will raise the issue in my constituency and the part of Thames Water that cover south - east England outside London . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) and for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) for talk about many other issue affect Thames Water . their speech relate more to customer in London , but they make some excellent general point about the company ' s financing , the weak regulation and the Government ' s failure to act , which I will also highlight . serious and persistent problem affect wildlife and thousand of resident in the Thames Valley , particularly read and Woodley . we have see thing in our area that be truly shocking and deeply concern many resident . I have run a community survey , which hundred of people have fill in to raise their concern . this be a widespread issue for many local resident , which differ slightly from those describe far downstream in London but relate to the level of concern and the impact on local people . I will go slightly upstream from read towards Oxford , where there have be a well - know series of incident link to pollution in the Wolvercote stream . all the sewage pollution far upstream of the Thames , from many tributary in Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire , flow through Berkshire into London and , ultimately , out to the Thames estuary . resident in my area be suffer the direct result of that pollution . the simply appalling level of pollution be monitor by people in Oxford . I pay tribute to local campaigner there , include my hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) . however , Thames Water do not seem to be fully address these matter . I hope that the company , the Government , the Environment Agency and the regulator be listen to the debate and will look into this far . of the issue affect tributary in our area — an important and environmentally very sensitive issue — be pollution in chalk stream . very close to reading , the River Pang tributary be a particularly beautiful chalk stream , which use to be in pristine condition . there be a beautiful landscape , with roll hill on the edge of the down in Berkshire and gentle footpath next to the river . when I walk along there some time ago , I notice that the riverbed have no apparent life in part of it . local angler , many of whom live in Reading , have raise serious concern about the Pang , and about other chalk stream across southern England . they be a unique ecosystem find only in the south of this country , where water come up from the chalk aquifer into stream and flow into major river such as the Thames . I hope the Minister will take note of the specific issue affect chalk stream . I would appreciate it if he or his colleague could write to I about they and the other specific issue in the Thames Valley and Thames catchment . I thank the Angling Trust for its excellent work on this matter . another appalling local issue be the long - stand pollution incident in a tributary call Foudry brook , which come from a spring in the northern part of Hampshire and flow under the M4 motorway , through the outskirt of reading , and ultimately into the Kennet and the Thames . I see the pollution when I be run the read half - marathon this year . there be pool and little tributary of water that smell pungently , and be a lurid neon green colour that one would see in an artificial and lifeless place , completely out of place next to the willow and bush near the river . it should never have happen , and clearly be link to the pollution incident upstream a few mile away . I hope that the Minister be note the level of revulsion that people like I have exhibit when we have see that . it be an offensive thing to see when try to enjoy a walk next to a river or , like many thousand of local resident , when live near a river . People who live along several mile of bank of the Kennet , the Thames and the Loddon have to put up with sewage float past their house . there have be a series of other terrible incident , and I could go on and on . many be happen all the time and , as we hear early , they be not properly monitor . on Saturday , on a family walk , I experience yet another such incident . imagine the scene : frosty countryside just outside Reading — absolutely beautiful — with heavy frost on hedge and wildlife in abundance , walk down the hill through a nature reserve to the River Thames . I could see a heron on the bank of the river spy for fish and there be a cormorant diving into the Thames . in the middle of the river be what I think be either fleck of snow — it be very , very cold — or rain or leave . in fact , they be bubble from sewage pollution . I could see bank of foam building up around small island in the river , sometimes nearly a foot high , with white , brown creamy foam which be clearly link to sewage pollution . the river be very high and I could tell that the outlet have be open upstream . it be absolutely disgusting . that be the type of pollution affect people ' s enjoyment of beautiful countryside , riverside walk , and their own garden and home in the south of England just upstream from London . I hope the Minister will note that and look into it . I be aware of time and I do not want to overstep my limit . I commend the action plan put forward by my hon . friend the Member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) . I hope the Minister be listen and pay attention to what we be say , because this be a very serious problem and I hope he will look at it again . yesterday in Somerset , 67 millimetre of rain fall in 24 hour and 10 flood warning have be issue at the time of speak . this be not a one - off event . flash flood in May flood nearly 100 home in my constituency alone . yesterday I have a call from a constituent in her 80 with significant mobility issue . the entire ground floor of her home be flood and she be struggle to leave safely . the water be not clean . the flash flood include raw human waste from an outdated local sewage system that fail to cope after decade of neglect . in 2021 , all of Somerset ' s five river be rate poor by the Environment Agency . it have be leave to volunteer , such as the Friends of the River Frome , to take action . half of Somerset ' s bathing site be rate poor and plenty of area across the country , such as Farleigh Hungerford in my constituency , urgently need Government investment and attention to help clean up that pollution . the Liberal Democrat amendment to the Environment Bill , now the Environment Act 2021 , call for a sewage tax on pre - tax profit of water company to fund clean our river . statistic from the Environment Agency show that 0 % of river in England be class as good . an ambassador to the Rivers Trust , Imogen Grant — an olympic rower as well as a qualified medic — tell I that she have row past use nappy , use tampon and even a fridge on the River Thames . the board of Thames Water , which be cause most of that pollution , should resign today . the risk to human life be bad enough and my constituent have their MP to speak loudly for they . my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) rightly speak up in this place last night for victim of sewage pollution . my colleague and I be extremely disappointed that the Government vote not to provide compensation . we hope they will listen to our campaign for a new blue flag standard for river in England and Wales . imagine how constituent in Westmorland and Lonsdale feel today after that treachery from the Government , and after the BBC ' s " Panorama " investigation show the duplicity of the water company . the Government have lead our constituent up the creek , take away the paddle , and then sell the boat to water company boss . I be sure the Chamber be aware of the " Panorama " report yesterday , which allege that United Utilities misreporte sewage pollution event and downgrade incident to the low level so that they be not count as pollution incident . the BBC allege that United Utilities , by do that , be award the right to raise £ 5 . 1 million by increase bill for their 7 million customer next year . the Liberal Democrats be call for a criminal investigation to be open immediately . the Government must support we . I be concern about the impact that this scandal will have on my constituent ' finance . it be simply not fair that we should pay high bill because water firm continue to pump out raw sewage . water firm executive pay themselves £ 30 . 6 million in bonus in 2020 - 21 , and even the Environment Agency have describe their behaviour as criminal . the Government should listen to liberal Democrat policy and replace the friendly goldfish Ofwat — a harmless decoration with a poor memory — with a fierce and determined new regulator , a tiger shark . it be shock that water firm be not only pollute our waterway but use dodgy sewage monitor , the number of which actually increase this year . I be shocked to hear report that in area such as Eastbourne in Sussex , there be concern that Southern Water ' s monitor service , Beachbuoy , be not update until day after sewage discharge on to a beach . swimmer be take their last moonlight swim before the great white attack — but the great white be a patch of human waste with Weil ' s disease and dysentery dripping from its tooth . our waterway can recover , but they need action now , before it be too late . we need a tax on sewage water company , not huge holiday bonus . we need a tough , toothed tiger shark of a regulator . we need our environment to have long - term protection from a serious and committed Government . liberal Democrats support a public benefit company model for water company so that particular economic and environmental policy objective must be consider explicitly in the running of the company . this Government need to listen to the people speak up for our silent water . the clock be tick . as toxic sewage spill into our lake , river and sea , it be clear that the Government be up to their neck in it — and this be not a stand - alone scandal . it perfectly encapsulate 13 year of Tory misrule by a Government who do not believe in governing , who see regulation only as a burden and who think that business always know good , allow privatised utility to make huge profit at their captive customer ' expense and the boss to line their own pocket , and ignore the need for investment in our public realm and the infrastructure that we need . in 2022 , as we have hear , not a single river in England be free of chemical contamination , just 14 % have " good " ecological status , and 75 % of UK river pose a serious risk to human health , the single big cause of pollution be untreated sewage . however , we need to look at other cause of pollution as well . the Environmental Audit Committee warn in January 2022 of a " chemical cocktail " from plastic , slurry and farm run - off that threaten water quality , and criticise the outdated , underfunded and inadequate monitoring regime that make it difficult to determine the health of England ' s river . CHEM Trust welcome that report as " a vital call to arm to improve the quality of water in our river " , and call for action to tackle chemical pollution at source . as we hear from the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , whose frustration be clear , industrial - scale agriculture be also an increase problem . the River Wye have a massive problem with phosphate pollution link to intensive poultry production . there be about 20 million chicken in the Wye catchment at any one time , and much of the manure be spread on surround field , with nutrient leach into the water supply . it be estimate that even if the source of the pollution be remove now , it would take between 10 and 20 year for the soil pollution to be reduce . for now , however , I will stick to the subject of sewage , in which regard Wessex Water be a particularly bad offender . we have see numerous case of sickness among swimmer at popular local wild - swim spot in area around my constituency , such as Conham River Park and Warleigh weir . in 2021 , Bristol Cable report that between the beginning of January and the end of August , Wessex Water have dump raw sewage into our local river 14 , 000 time , and sadly thing have not improve : just yesterday , it dump revolt raw sewage into the River Avon for more than seven hour . water company be suppose to dump untreated sewage only during " exceptional " weather , but as " exceptional " be not even define , they feel that they can dump untreated sewage whenever it rain — and , of course , in the UK rainy weather be far from exceptional . the BBC find that in 2022 Wessex Water dump raw sewage into our river for 1 , 527 hour on dry day . that be mean to be illegal , yet Wessex Water , like fellow dry spiller Southern Water and Thames Water , be allow to keep operate . I have already mention the massive £ 982 , 000 take - home pay of the Wessex Water CEO in 2021 - 22 . he have be with the company a very long time — since the 1990 — and if his pay then be adjust for inflation , he would be on about £ 120 , 000 , so he have have about a 700 % pay rise . as I say , Wessex Water be now look to its customer and want to put up bill by £ 150 a year to pay for plan investment . I would argue that that money should already have be spend on maintain infrastructure . last night ' s BBC " Panorama " programme expose the failure of self - regulation , where water company get to mark their own homework and cheat the system with ease . it be tell that we have to rely on whistleblower from the Environment Agency tell " Panorama " what be go on at United Utilities , rather than the Environment Agency take enforcement action itself . in the last three year — 2020 , 2021 and 2022 — 931 serious pollution incident be report in north - west England but the Environment Agency go to inspect only six of they . we be not blame the Environment Agency for that . we know that it be under - resource , and we know how little respect this Government have for our regulator and the protection they provide . its environmental protection budget be halve by DEFRA between 2010 and 2020 . we see this time and again , with the Tories rail against red tape and bureaucracy and slash cost , then wonder why everything have go to piece , when in effect they have create a wild west where company can pollute at will . company do sometimes get catch . in 2020 , for example , Severn Trent be fine £ 800 , 000 for let 3 . 8 million litre of raw sewage enter a Shropshire stream , but these fine seem to be little or no deterrent because the company try to pass the cost on to their captive customer base instead . as foul waste poison our waterway , kill fish , destroy habitat , seep into our soil and make people sick , it be clear that self - regulation be not sustainable . we need water company to face the consequence of their failure , and that be what Labour be call for : criminal responsibility . water boss should face personal criminal liability for law break relate to pollution , with severe and automatic fine for illegal discharge . it be time to clean up the filth . the right to clean water be one of the most fundamental , and that be why this debate be very important to my constituent . I rise to support the excellent case put forward from the Opposition Front Bench today . it be interesting to note that , in a debate as important as this , only one or two Government Members have bother to turn up , and that the majority of their contribution , include those of Ministers , have focus on what happen 13 year ago under the Labour Government . when they start with that , they have already lose their case . it be convenient for they to somehow forget the 13 year that this Government have be in charge . they seem to forget the 13 year of a lack of regulation and inspection , the 13 year in which they hollow out the Environment Agency and Ofwat , the 13 year of halve the funding , the 13 year of million in bonus be pay to water boss and the 13 year in which family in our constituency have have rise in their water bill effectively to support that . Labour Members have speak about how , in recent year , our river , coastline and waterway have be pollute by the dumping of raw , untreated sewage , with over 800 sewage dump a day across the country last year . in Bradford , sewage be dump 5 , 200 time in 2022 , put we in the top 10 region for sewage dumping . although we be wholly landlocke , one of Yorkshire ' s major river , the River Aire , run right through the Bradford district , and it be here that the majority of dump incident take place , accord to the Rivers Trust . in the constituency of the Minister , the hon . member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) — I welcome he to his place — an outlet near Riddlesden record 96 spillage total more than 1 , 000 hour , and an outlet near Bingley record 69 spillage total more than 800 hour . in my own constituency , an outlet at Apperley Bridge record 96 spillage total almost 600 hour . although dump directly into river have sadly become expect under this Government , the scale of dump into small tributary , beck and stream in my constituency be particularly alarming . in 2022 , sewage be dump 59 time into Fagley beck , 41 time into Bolton beck , 110 time into East brook , 36 time into Haigh beck and 75 time into Carr beck , all of which be watercourse that run through or along the back of residential estate . and that be just what have be record — the actual number of incident in which sewage have be dump in Bradford be potentially far high . give the scale of sewage dump across Bradford , my constituent be ask just what Yorkshire Water be do to tackle it . the answer ? hiking water bill by an average of £ 111 in 2023 - 24 , to pass the cost of the urgently need sewer upgrade , follow year of fail to invest properly , directly on to family in my constituency , even as it pay out £ 62 million in dividend to other business in its parent group . although the chief executive of Yorkshire Water have report that she will voluntarily refuse a bonus that would have be as high as the eye - watering figure of £ 800 , 000 , she still receive a staggering base salary of £ 515 , 000 on top of £ 140 , 000 in relocation expense . this make it clear that , in the week that Yorkshire Water have be force to pay a record £ 1 million civil sanction by the Environment Agency , this public relation decision be not as principle as it first seem . when water company chief executive and director have preside over an unprecedented wave of sewage dumping while pocket huge salary and bumper payment , and when the Government have prove themselves completely incapable of tackle the crisis and hold water company to account , it be obvious that something have to change . they should start by empower the water regulator , Ofwat , to ban the payment of bonus to the boss of water company that pollute our river , lake and sea , and they should end by shut down the monopoly and stranglehold of privately own water company on our water network by take they into public control and ownership , where they belong . despite what Conservative Members would have we believe , this Government inherit some of the clean river and waterway in Britain ' s history when they come to power almost 14 year ago . [ interruption . ] it be true . when Labour leave office in 2010 , the Environment Agency state that our river be healthy than they have be at any point since the industrial revolution . two year early , 80 % of water quality test in the Thames be find to be very good or good , compare with only 58 % in 1990 . so what have change ? thirteen and a half year of Tory government have pollute our coast and our waterway , and we arrive at the appalling situation where over 800 sewage dump be take place across our country every single day . this be a green and pleasant land , but in the last seven year alone over 1 , 200 year ' worth of raw sewage have be dump into british water . my constituency of West Lancashire have a proud history of grow community , but how can the farm and nursery of West Lancashire have any confidence in the water they use to grow the food that end up on Britain ' s plate ? the grower in my constituency care about the quality of food they produce . if only they have a Government who care about the quality of water use to produce it . not one single river in Britain be class as be in a healthy condition — not one . it be not even true that the Government can be accuse of inaction . it be bad than that : they have block amendment to the Environment Act 2021 bring forward by Labour to bring an end to sewage dumping scandal . my constituent expect bonus to be pay only when people deliver and perform above and beyond how they be expect to . other than the air we breathe , which be another sticky wicket for this Government but a topic for another day , be there anything more vital than water ? my constituent do not expect bonus to be award for pollute our river and sea while boss ' and shareholder ' pocket be line with cash . to add insult to injury , water company be ask customer to pay an extra £ 156 a year to pay for problem cause by the chronic under - investment in the network , while £ 14 million of bonus be pay in just one year to the very people who have fail to maintain the system adequately . under no circumstance be that acceptable . ofwat must have the power to ban the payment of bonus to water boss who allow significant level of raw sewage to be pump into our precious river , lake and sea . if that have be in place over the last year , six out of nine water boss ' bonus would have be block . they be not . labour will put the water industry into special measure and ensure change . we will end the farce of company self - monitoring and require all company to monitor all — all — water outlet . water boss that persistently allow their company to break the law on sewage dumping will face personal criminal responsibility . the current system for impose fine simply be not work . long draw - out , expensive court case be no credible deterrent for water company and the Government know it , so Labour will introduce severe and automatic fine for illegal discharge . my constituent have a right to expect to be able to enjoy our river and coast without fear of contamination from raw sewage — and they have a right to expect water polluter not only to pay the price where contamination do occur , but not to be reward for allow it to happen . labour ' s plan will shift the burden on to the water company , rather than expect the british public to carry the can . under the Government ' s plan , the Tory sewage scandal will continue for decade to come , but the next Labour Government will build a well Britain , where water boss be hold accountable for their negligence and the british public can have confidence that our waterway be clean and safe to enjoy . thank you very much for call I , Mr Deputy Speaker . I congratulate my party on secure this important debate . last year , in my constituency of Birkenhead alone , there be the ominous number of 666 sewage discharge , run for a total duration of over 8 , 000 hour . the effect for business and family in coastal community like ours be devastating : it deny young people , many of whom be from deprive area with little access to nature outside of our borough , of the natural space that by right belong to they , while jeopardise the many business that rely on tourism . elsewhere across the country the situation be even graver , particularly for our precious chalk stream — which can be find almost exclusively in Britain — many of which now face an existential threat . meanwhile , water company boss continue to pay themselves million of pound in inflated salary and bonus , while the Government seem content to look away , even as evidence emerge of water company cover up sewage discharge and make evidence of sewage disappear from official record . the motion my party lay before the House today seek to tackle the perverse injustice at the heart of our broken water system — a system that guarantee private profit for the water boss and public squalor for the rest of we . the motion signal a clear and welcome change from the attitude of successive Secretaries of State for the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , who all too often , when speak from the Government Dispatch Box , have act as if their job be to defend the interest of the water company and their shareholder , rather than the constituent who elect they to this place . from the hundred of message I have receive from my constituent on this issue , it be clear that the people of Birkenhead expect we to go much far . they be sick to death with the decade - long rip - off that begin with the privatisation of the water industry in 1989 . they have have enough of pernicious standing charge and their bill rise year on year — they be set to rise , on average , by another 35 % by the end of this decade — while water boss who preside over crumble infrastructure pocket million in bonus . my constituent want to see water return to public ownership . accord to research conduct by Savanta , on behalf of the publication Left Foot Forward , 70 % of the british public share that view . we need to deal with the practical and deep - root issue face the water industry here and now , and confront the simple truth that seem self - evident to the vast majority of the british public : the three decade in which we have treat water as a private commodity have be a manifest failure . there have be much discussion in recent day about the entrepreneurial spirit that the Thatcher Government be say to have let loose with their policy of privatisation and deregulation . today , that spirit can be see most clearly in the tide of sewage swell our river and lake and drown our beach . we must prepare to face the challenge to come , because as we confront a future that will be increasingly define by climate breakdown , drought , water scarcity and extreme weather event , the question of how we most effectively marshal our share natural resource will be crucial . I remind the House , as I have before , that the chief executive of the Environment Agency warn that large part of the country be now stare into the " jaw of death " — the point at which we will not have enough water supply to meet our need . to allow the profit motive to continue to dictate the management of a resource as vital as water , and to perpetuate a system in which shareholder profit take precedence over much - need investment in infrastructure improvement , would be not just short - sighted , but an absolute dereliction of duty . I call the shadow Minister . sometimes we witness revelation that be incredibly shocking , yet simultaneously not surprising at all . and so it be with the exposure of this week ' s " Panorama " investigation that United Utilities , one of Britain ' s large water company , have be systematically falsify its environmental performance to mislead consumer and regulator and to push up profit . although Labour have decide to use one of our precious Opposition day debate to discuss water company and director ’ bonus in advance of those revelation , they have clearly add to the urgency and salience of the debate . several Members comment on the fact that the issue have a much high profile that it do . I pay tribute to Feargal Sharkey , who have do some amazing campaigning and play a significant role in raise the issue of water quality . he have prove that he have not just " a good heart " , but a switch on head as well . it have be a good debate ; what be say be important , as well as what be not say . the demeanour of Government Members speak more loudly than the word we hear from they . my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Mick Whitley ) mention the number of Secretaries of State there have be — we have have six secretary of State for the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs since 2019 . interestingly , the new one , the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , could not be bother to turn up and respond to the debate . the Minister who do respond , the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , could not wait to race away and have not return to this important debate , despite have speak at its start . even more powerful be the row upon row of empty green Benches behind the Minister during the debate . it be clear that Conservative Members of Parliament do not want to be anywhere near here to speak up for their Government ' s record on this issue . I have great affection for the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Taunton Deane , but she appear to inhabit a parallel universe when it come to the state of our water industry . have she be here to listen to the debate , she would have hear Member after Member reflect the fury of their constituent and of a raft of organisation include the Environment Agency , which last year describe the performance of english water company as " very disappointing " , say it be " simply unacceptable to see a decline in this vital metric " , in reference to the increase in pollution incident . member have reflect what Surfers Against Sewage have say , and the Rivers Trust have slam the Government ' s performance , yet the Minister — [ interruption . ] she march back into the Chamber just as I be say that if she have be here , she would have hear about a very different reality in respect of our water industry from the one that she appear to inhabit . she describe the " wonderful water " that we deserve and be all experience . she seem to believe that she and this Government have bring forward strong measure that Labour and the Liberal Democrats have stand against . she say that if we introduce automatic fine , it would somehow be good for the water company because it would prevent other kind of action from be take . I be afraid it be really quite bizarre to listen to that depiction of what have happen , but there be many other , very relevant , contribution to the debate . they start with the hon . member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) , who cut through the word that might be use to describe some of what we hear and what be also in our river . he clearly admit that in the 23 year he have be a Member of Parliament , the situation have get bad . he do not buy the idea that we be live in some golden age of river hygiene . my hon . friend the Member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) speak about the broken Government promise on environmental standard ; the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) speak of his frustration at the Government ' s failure on this issue ; and my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) give we a passionate and evocative description of the beautiful coastline in his area , and accuse the Minister of — just like , unfortunately , the surfer in the constituency of the hon . member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) — go through the motion . rise — I will come to the hon . gentleman in a moment . the hon . member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) make an interesting contribution . he slate the record of the liberal Democrat Minister between 2013 and 2015 , apparently forget that that Minister serve under a Conservative Secretary of State , in a Conservative - lead Government who be implement policy as a result of the conservative austerity programme . I stand behind no one when it come to condemn Liberal Democrats for their record between 2010 and 2015 , but even I think that be a bit rich . my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) speak about the performance and failure of Thames Water . he say that the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Taunton Deane have give an extraordinarily complacent speech . I think he speak for many when he say that . my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) speak about 2 billion litre of sewage outflow in two day in her area in 2020 ; my hon . friend the Member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) speak about the appalling level of pollution in his constituency ; and the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) speak of the duplicity of water company on self - monitoring . it be important to say that although some member give credit for the increase amount of monitoring , the " Panorama " programme have call into doubt whether we can believe any of the figure we see . my hon . friend the Member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) rightly refer to the other cause of river pollution — another important factor , which be not cover as much in this debate . she also speak about the lack of capacity in the slimme - down Environment Agency to take on those alternative cause of river pollution . my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , in a very good speech , mention the Environment Agency say in 2010 that we have the healthy river since the industrial revolution , and its frustration that we be see that progress stall under this Government . I take note of what the shadow Minister say . he mention both surfer Against Sewage and surfer in my constituency . will he acknowledge that when Surfers Against Sewage begin its campaign in 1990 , less than 25 % of the beach in the UK meet the acceptable minimum standard for bathing water quality , and today that figure be over 90 % ? the first thing to say be that the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : the state of the beach back in 1990 be even more disgraceful than it be today . the vast majority of the progress be make between 1997 and 2010 , almost — [ interruption . ] yes , it be . it be almost up to 80 % by then . if we read its report , the Environment Agency express its frustration that the significant progress make in that period have slow since then . can the shadow Minister explain to I why it be that the Labour Government be take to court by the European Union in 2009 for fail to address the issue ? the hon . Gentleman should listen to what the Environment Agency have say . it have say the improvement in water quality have slow under this Government and it have express its frustration that we be plateaue . the hon . Gentleman say in his comment that Ofwat already have the power to ban bonus . if he have listen to the Minister , he would have know that that be not true . what Ofwat have at the moment be the power to ensure that those bonus be not pay from the money pay by bill payer . that be not the same as what we propose . our proposal be very different , so he be incorrect to say that the power we be propose be those that currently exist . my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Mick Whitley ) sum up the difference between the behaviour of boss and the experience of his constituent . as my hon . friend the Member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) make clear early , the Government have be complicit in this disgraceful practice , through the funding cut that my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) refer to . they have cut the Environment Agency ' s funding in half , lead to the dramatic reduction in monitoring , enforcement and prosecution that in turn have lead to the dramatic increase in illegal sewage discharge . now , to make matter bad , the Government be simply ignore the BBC ' s investigation . it be shocking that the Environment Agency do not provide anyone for that programme ; it be a Government regulator and should be answer for the performance of the water company . while Tory Ministers claim that they have a grip on this issue , even the Environment Agency have be force to admit that the water company ' performance in the most recent year be " completely unacceptable " . Britain can not afford year more of the decline in its natural habitat and of worsen water quality , but these year of failure may finally be at an end . soon , people across Britain will have an opportunity to bring down the curtain on what by then will be 14 year of failure , and to elect a Labour Government to address this shocking situation . the Labour party ' s DEFRA team have already meet with water company boss and , while the meeting be cordial , the message be unmistakable : the day of a Government turn a blind eye to the failure and corruption of self - regulation will be at an end under Labour . that start with punish the bad actor . we will give the water regulator the power to ban bonus for water boss until they have clean up their filth , but that be only the first step to clean up the water industry . labour will go far , put the industry under special measure . we will end the pointless practice of self - monitoring , and will require water company to install remote monitor on every outlet oversee by the regulator and the Government . any illegal spill will be meet with an immediate and severe fine — no more delay , no more appeal , no more lenient fine that be cheap than pay to upgrade crumble infrastructure . rogue water boss who overseer repeat severe and illegal sewage discharge will face personal criminal liability . the day of failure under this Government be now come to an end . a Labour Government will get our water clean up and resolve . the Government welcome the opportunity to set out the scale of our action to tackle water quality . we have be consistently clear that the failure of water company to reduce sewage discharge adequately be completely unacceptable . we make that clear throughout the debate and in the opening remark from the Treasury Bench . I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , who previously hold the water quality brief and do a lot of work to bring forward the Environment Act 2021 . the Government have clearly set out that we be take strong and decisive action to reduce sewage discharge that harm our river and coastline . I be aware of and recognise the many concern that our constituent raise regard water quality . they , like all of we in this House , rightly want to see the quality of our water improve . that be why the Conservative Government be take action . we introduce the Environment Act , which introduce legally bind target for water quality and a new requirement for water company to publish datum on storm overflow , and give Ofwat new power to clamp down on dividend and bonus . those be the action of this Conservative Government in introduce the Environment Act . many Opposition Members do not vote for many of the measure include in that Act . that be what this Government be do in take action . I welcome the Minister to his new role . I thank he for give way , give that the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , who open the debate , repeatedly refuse to take any intervention from I . the Minister talk about the importance that our constituent place on water quality , so I have one request for he . sit on the Secretary of State ' s desk — as the hon . member for Taunton Deane know , because she respond to my debate on this topic in September — be the water resource management plan for the south - east . it contain the highly controversial proposal for the Teddington direct river abstraction , which will see recycled sewage put into the River Thames and water take out . there be real concern in the Environment Agency about water quality . Moormead Park in my constituency , and Ham Lands in that of my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , face be rip up to build the scheme . the Secretary of State have to make a decision , so will the Minister ask he to take that scheme off the table ? I note that the hon . Lady be not here for the whole debate to listen to the many positive contribution from the Conservative Benches . however , we have already speak about this , and we have a meeting in the diary next week to discuss it , which I look forward to . our plan for water focus specifically on increase investment , which include £ 2 . 2 billion from water company to spend on improve infrastructure ; strong regulation , include more Environment Agency inspection of waste water treatment work ; ban the sale of wet wipe ; proposal for new restriction on forever chemical that can be find in water ; and tough enforcement , include big penalty for water company and tight control over their dividend payment . let I be clear : the Government will hold the water sector and enforcement agency to account . the Secretary of State and I be work closely with the new leadership of the Environment Agency to ensure and reiterate to they and the water industry the expectation that they will be hold to account and to the high possible standard . I will be glad to respond now to the many point that have be make by member from across the House , start with storm overflow , which many member talk about . the Government be take step to prioritise storm overflow . we have now launch the most ambitious plan to address storm overflow sewage discharge by drive the large infrastructure programme in water company history . we have be consistently clear that the failure of water company to reduce sewage discharge adequately be totally unacceptable , and our new strict target , which be bring out through the Environment Act , will see the tough ever crackdown on sewage spill . however , that all start with monitoring — monitoring be absolutely key if we be to carry out enforcement . the hon . member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) may claim that water be previously well quality , but how on earth do she know ? in 2010 , under the Labour Administration , just 7 % of storm overflow be be monitor ; now , in 2023 , we have drive that figure up to 91 % , and by the end of this year we will be at 100 % . the opposition may make these ridiculous claim , but how on earth do they know ? under their watch , only 7 % of storm overflow be be monitor . these monitor will allow we to understand the impact of sewage discharge in more detail than ever before , so we will hold water company to account and target improvement where they be most need . to pick up on the point that be make by my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) , it be the Labour Administration who introduce self - monitoring . it be Labour ' s plan now to overturn one of the rule that it itself bring in . this Government have pass the Environment Act , which have require a landmark £ 6 billion investment through the storm - overflow reduction plan . we have instruct water company to deliver more than 800 storm - overflow improvement across the country , and we be deliver Europe ' s large infrastructure project through the Thames tideway tunnel to reduce storm overflow by 95 % in the Thames Water region . I will now turn to the performance of regulator , which have be mention by many member from across the House , include the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) . we be work with regulator to ensure they have the tool and resource they need to hold water company to account : we have provide an extra £ 2 . 2 million per year to the EA specifically for water company enforcement activity , and in May 2023 , we provide a £ 11 . 3 million funding increase to enable Ofwat to treble its enforcement capacity . we have legislate to introduce unlimited penalty for water company that breach their environmental permit and to expand the range of offence for which penalty can be apply . those change will provide the Environment Agency with the tool it need to hold water company to account . I only hope that the opposition welcome the unlimited penalty that this Conservative Government be bring in . as for what we be do to focus on performance , in 2022 , Ofwat announce provisional financial penalty of almost £ 135 million for underperformance , apply to 11 water company . that money be rightly be return to customer through water bill during the 2024 - 25 period . this government be take the polluter pay principle seriously — that be exactly what the provision of the Environment Act bring into play . however , the answer be not a lengthy bureaucratic process carry out at the taxpayer ' s expense to create an entirely new regulator , as the Opposition have propose . that sum up what the Labour party be about : process , not progress . this Government be absolutely committed to ensure that progress be make on improve water quality . the issue of dividend have be raise by many member , and I will pick up on some of the point that the hon . member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) and for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) have mention . in March 2023 , Ofwat announce new measure that will enable it to take enforcement action against water company that do not link dividend payment to performance . that change will require water company board to take account of their performance when decide whether they make dividend payment ; if the payment of dividend would risk the financial resilience of a company , Ofwat now have the power to stop that payment . as a result of this Government ' s give more power to Ofwat , it have increase power to take enforcement action if dividend pay do not reflect performance . as for some of the point that have be make about Thames Water , we have see today that Ofwat be investigate Thames Water , which show that the power this Government give to Ofwat be already be utilise . rise — I will pick up on the point make about Thames Water by the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) and for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) in relation to penalty . since 2015 , 12 prosecution have be instigate against Thames Water , amount to £ 37 million . Ofwat will rightly hold company to account where they do not clearly demonstrate the link between dividend payment and performance . that have be make possible through the Environment Act . I want to turn to bonus . quite rightly , pick up on the point make by my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay , in June Ofwat confirm new plan that will ensure customer no long fund executive director ’ bonus payment where they have not be sufficiently justify . Ofwat will regularly review all executive bonus payment , and where company do not meet expectation , it will step in to ensure that customer do not pick up the bill , which be incredibly important to this Government . these new rule have already place pressure on water company to take action . this government will always prioritise bill payer , which be why in 2022 - 23 no water or sewage company in England and Wales be pay a ceo a bonus out of the money from customer ’ bill , while half of ceo be take no bonus whatsoever . this be the first time that have happen in the water industry , and it reflect the industry ' s recognition that the Government and the public expect well . the Labour party , however , would simply raise taxis on water company , which would send household bill rocket sky - high . this Conservative Government have be absolutely clear that the polluter must pay , and that be exactly what we be do by give Ofwat more power to regulate the industry and hold water company to account . turn to debt in the industry , which be a point make by the hon . member for Hammersmith — rise — I will give way in a second . ofwat be monitor company ' gearing level closely and have encourage water company to de - gear , with the average gearing across the sector fall to 69 % , down from 72 % in 2021 . in March 2023 , Ofwat announce new power that will strengthen the financial resilience of the sector , include power to stop water company make dividend payment early this year . those power be already be put in place by Ofwat , despite what the opposition may say . many member across the House make the point about bathing water quality , include my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) and my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay . bathing water have improve significantly over time . in 2010 , the proportion of area with good or excellent bathing water , meet the high standard in force at the time , be 76 % . now , in 2023 , 90 % be classify as good or excellent , which be a significant improvement . it have to be note that Labour actively do nothing in its time to improve bathing water quality , but this Conservative Government be deliver on that point . would the Minister acknowledge that the reduction in bathing water quality be often to do not with sewage , but with water run - off from agriculture ? pick up on that point , the quality be not only to do with sewage . of course , that be one of the factor , but there be many other factor to do with agricultural run - off , as well as with faece from bird and from dog , particularly in beach environment . I have to be clear that where water company be significantly contribute to the poor designation that have be identify for bathing water , we will take action . the Labour party be all talk when it come to protect our water , but look no far than labour - run Wales , where sewage be discharge into waterway more frequently . just remember that this be what the Leader of the Opposition want as a blueprint for a Labour Government in England . look at Labour ' s record in government , when it manage to monitor only a tiny fraction of storm overflow — only 7 % in 2010 — and we be now at nearly 100 % this year . if we do not monitor , we can not enforce . look at its voting history . labour and the Lib Dems vote against reduce pollution in the Agriculture Act 2020 . look at their face now . they know deep down that this Conservative Government be take action . claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . question put forthwith , that the question be now put . question agree to . Main Question accordingly put . resolve , that this House regret that 13 year of successive conservative government have break the water industry and its regulatory framework ; be deeply concerned about the scale of the sewage crisis and the devastating impact it be have on the UK ' s river , lake and sea ; believe it be indefensible that executive at UK water company be pay over £ 14 million in bonus between 2020 and 2021 despite inflict significant environmental and human damage ; condemn the Government for be too weak to tackle the crisis and hold water company boss to account ; call on the Government to empower Ofwat to ban the payment of bonus to water company executive whose company be discharge significant level of raw sewage into the UK ' s sea and waterway ; and far call on the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to make a statement to this House by 31 January 2024 on the Government ' s progress in implement this ban . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Wine ( Revocation and Consequential Provision ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 25 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Data Protection ( Fundamental Rights and Freedoms ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) question agree to . Holocaust Memorial Bill ( Select Committee ) order , that Mr Ben Bradshaw be discharge from the Holocaust Memorial Bill ( Select Committee ) and Karl Turner be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection ) . human Rights ( Joint Committee ) order , that Angela Richardson be discharge from the Joint Committee on Human Rights and Jill Mortimer be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection ) . Justice Ordered , that Janet Daby be discharge from the Justice Committee and Rachel Hopkins be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection ) . Procedure Ordered , that Dame Angela Eagle be discharge from the Procedure Committee and Samantha Dixon be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection ) . Petition - Unpaid Carers I rise to present a petition from the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk relate to unpaid carer . there can be little doubt that those who have give up full - time employment to look after other have be among the hard hit by the current cost of living crisis . research from Carers UK have show that thousand of unpaid carer have be push into poverty and be have to cut back on food and heating . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that unpaid carer continue to face significant financial challenge in this cost of living crisis ; far that carer , include those in receipt of Carers Allowance , be extremely vulnerable to high cost due to their limited ability to earn an income and because of additional caring cost that they face ; and note that recent research from Carers UK find that thousand of unpaid carer be be force into poverty , with many cut back on essential include food and heating . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider how the benefit system could well support unpaid carer of both work and state pension age , and to review Carers Allowance eligibility , so that carer can live a life beyond their unpaid caring responsibility and continue to care safely as well . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002879 ] petition - on - call Doctor Provision at Westmorland General Hospital I rise on behalf of just under 2 , 000 of my constituent in Westmorland and Lonsdale who oppose , as do I , the decision to remove out - of - hour doctor cover at the Westmorland General Hospital on three night of the week . that mean that my constituent now need to wait for treatment to come from Barrow or Penrith , lead often to two - hour round trip , put many people at risk . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , Declares opposition against the decision from Cumbria Health on Call to reduce the on - call doctor provision from Kendal overnight three time a week ; far declare the essential service which overnight doctor at Westmorland General Hospital provide to the local community . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to urge Cumbria Health on Call to restore the on - call doctor provision from Kendal . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002883 ] Adjournment Resolved , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) House adjourn .