it be a great pleasure to serve on the Public Bill Committee on this Bill . we have a great debate , and there be actually a lot of agreement across the Committee Room . these be deeply conservative reform , champion by none other than Mrs Thatcher , start in 1965 , which she continue to do throughout opposition and during her premiership . I gently say to Opposition Members , of whatever party , that they must not fall into the trap of make this a political football . they must engage with the seriousness and complexity of these reform , in part because , as we have hear , they do very little to advance these very significant reform during their own time in office . I suspect that they back away from it because of the very significant legal challenge they would have face , as we ourselves will no doubt face . pretend they do not exist be not a serious position . I say to the Minister and the Secretary of State , who be aware of my comment , that we must not buckle , but must continue to take this forward . it be great to see the package of amendment lay by the Government , particularly new clause 42 , which be a ban on leasehold house . I want the Minister to think carefully about how he will address the inevitable imbalance in the creation of a two - tier system , in which some people will have the freehold of their house , but some will not . there be an additional imbalance between flat in our urban area and new freehold house . that point be very well make by James Vitali in a Policy Exchange report . I be slightly worried about the omission from this of retirement property , so perhaps the Minister could return to that . in Committee , I speak about the need to truly move towards a commonhold system . I think the Opposition ' s new clause 11 be something of that nature . I very much hope that , as the Bill go through complete its stage , the Government — here or in the other place — can look at that suggestion . I think we do need to set out the future legislative scaffold for our fifth term in office , and to build on the work we have do so that we can finally get rid of this leasehold system . other Members have mention a lot of the point I would have make about share service . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) raise that , and it be one of my concern . my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) have do a fantastic job in talk about the lack of adoption by local authority . there be also new clause 7 , which I know be again an Opposition amendment , and new clause 1 and 2 . this problem be not go to go away . it be a blight on many homeowner in Redditch , and it also go to the heart of our planning system . we really do need to look at that ; we can not pretend that it be go to solve itself . I thank the Minister for write to I about one of my concern , which be litigation cost . I think new clause 3 look at that . he have reassure I that what be in this Bill will go the distance in ensure that leaseholder be not subject to unjust litigation cost by their landlord . that be one of the case highlight by Liam Spender and many other . these be hugely complex issue , but we must tackle they . I want to see ground rent reduce to a peppercorn . it be pure extortion , and a feudal relic from medieval time when people be serf and work the land . we should not have this in 2024 , or in any year . I refuse to believe that there be not a way , through the wit of man and the considerable intelligence of Ministers on the Front Bench , to solve the issue , perhaps where some financial asset be hold in pension fund . I do not buy the pretence of that incredible con artist Mr Steve Whybrow and his outfit that somehow we be robbing pensioner . I would urge anybody with an interest in this debate to look at the genuine pensioner who be fight for the right to have pure enjoyment of their own property , which they richly deserve after a lifetime of working . I will make my final remark on forfeiture : it must go . the forfeiture of a long lease can not be right . it can not be right that a freeholder can hold this nuclear bomb over somebody such as Dennis Jackson , a pensioner , of Plantation Wharf . he dispute a £ 6 , 000 service charge , which lead to an £ 80 , 000 legal bill , and he have his £ 800 , 000 flat forfeit during a 10 - minute hearing at Wandsworth court . I thank LEASE for all the work it have do to help he . that just simply can not be right , and we must address it . I want to see we finally finish the job that Mrs Thatcher start when she be Opposition Housing spokesman in 1965 . we must finish that job , and I thank the Minister for all the work he have do so far . I feel for the Minister today , because he must be kick himself . this be probably one of the few debate I have hear in this place recently where I have not hear a bad idea . as constituency mp , we see time and again the problem cause by retain this feudal system of leasehold , and I suspect that the Minister , who have be look at this issue for some time , be kick himself because what he would really like to do be abolish the whole thing . indeed , today we have hear support from across the House to do just that . in the short time available , let I say again to he that he would have our support to move to commonhold . he talk about how commonhold be probably the well model , and for those of we live in the vortex of gentrification , where thousand of flat have be build in our community , this be an incredibly pressing issue . we know that the casework we have see over the past few year will expand as a result of leasehold continue . that be why I wish to see the Government change their mind , perhaps in the other place , about get rid of leasehold altogether , and why I have be press my local authority to listen to concern of local resident who be stick with leasehold , and change our local plan to make commonhold the default . I hope that they have hear this debate and will rethink their opposition to that . I support the amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , and wish to draw the Minister ' s attention to two new clause that I have table on issue with the exist system and the problem that leaseholder face . with 12 , 000 leaseholder in Walthamstow , I know that these issue will come up time and again . new clause 2 be about the fact that although we have leasehold legislation , it do not tally with our consumer legislation . leaseholder pay a service charge . they have a contract with freehold management company to oversee problem in their property , but few resident feel empower to access right that exist under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 to have a reasonable service within a reasonable timeframe for repair . today , colleague across the House have give countless example of that , so let I add my own , which be where my propose new clause have come from . I be sorry that my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) be not here . she talk about Leigh Court and new clause 67 , but resident in Essex Brewery in Walthamstow have be without hot water and heating since before Christmas . indeed , they be still without hot water and heating , with little sight of any change . Essex Brewery be build just five year ago . it have become apparent that the build by Crest Nicholson be poor at good , and a downright con at worst . until January this year , Crest Nicholson be on the management committee and make more than £ 100 million in profit in the year that Essex Brewery be build . it have make half that this year — possibly less — because of widespread concern about the condition of the build it have make . what do someone do when they have buy possibly their first home , whether through shared ownership or leasehold , as hundred do in that development , and they find that the pipe that bring in the hot water be faulty ? I be sorry to say that those resident have little redress , because the management company , Kinleigh Folkard and Hayward — another multimillion pound organisation — leave they without any explanation of why it would not repair the hot water until after Christmas . what a Christmas present that be . the Grinch have strong competition . that be another layer of bureaucracy . KFH be appoint by the Essex Brewery management company , which be establish by the freeholder , Helpfavour , to meet those obligation . KFH tell the resident that because their insurance policy say that as long as they have water at all , the property be habitable and it be not go to do anything about it . that have leave hundred of resident , many of they vulnerable , for month on end without any hot water or heating in the current weather . resident have have to boil kettle to get hot water to cleanse their baby , or pay bill that they can not afford for extra heating through portable heater . for those who have share ownership it be even more complicated . Metropolitan Thames Valley state that it own 24 of those property and that it be prohibit by law from fix the problem . new clause 2 be about match consumer legislation with leasehold legislation , and give resident the right of redress , not say , " you ' ve either get to buy out the leaseholder if you want some property control , or you be stick with they and wait to see . " I hope KFH hear this debate and be ashamed of its behaviour . amendment 1 be about leasehold tribunal . I know the Minister speak of precedent setting , but resident across the country would tell he otherwise . I beg he to look at the Warner property in Walthamstow , and at Y & Y management , which repeatedly rip off constituent across the country . the hon . member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) be not here , but he ask why people have to pay terrorism insurance . in Walthamstow that be the Warner estate company , which say that because the plane bomber live in our constituency , 3 , 000 household have to buy terrorism insurance . such case come up time and again with leasehold and they do not get fix in the tribunal . amendment 1 would give precedent . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Mary Glindon Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip davy Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Mark Fletcher