Oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Visitor Levies what assessment she have make of the potential impact of visitor levy in Scotland and Wales on inbound UK tourism . responsibility for tourism levy be devolve , but we want to watch what happen in Scotland and Wales with close interest . one of my main hope be to increase the number of international visitor to the UK , and ensure more and more visitor come not only to London and the south - east , but travel across the whole United Kingdom . impose taxis on tourist will only discourage people from enjoy the good of what the Scottish Borders and Scotland have to offer . many small , rural business be struggle to sustain themselves , so I fear the extra tax propose by the Scottish Government will be the last straw . do the Minister share my concern about the impact that will have on tourism in Scotland ? will the Government undertake an impact study on the effect the tax will have on tourism , not just in Scotland but across the UK ? despite have be a Member of the Scottish Parliament , the hon . Gentleman do not seem to understand the basis of devolution . this be a matter for the Scottish Government to decide . we want to have a very positive relationship with the Scottish Administration and , for that matter , the Administration in Wales . of course we will look at this . the UK Government have no plan to introduce visitor levy at the moment , although there be potential benefit that might accrue to local community , if they could be get right , but the idea of we investigate what the Scottish Government be do would be completely wrong . filming Locations : Scottish Highlands what step the Government be take to promote the Scottish Highlands as a film location for movie and television . this government be take a fresh approach to our relationship with the Scottish Government and with our cultural partner across Scotland . we be seek a far more consistent and constructive relationship than the previous Government . I be pleased to tell the hon . Gentleman that the Prime Minister last week convene the first ever Council of the Nations and Regions , and this Government be put the creative industry in every nation and region at the heart of our economic strategy . I wholeheartedly welcome that answer . Scotland have great potential ; if I say that " the Traitors " be film at Ardross castle in my constituency , the Secretary of State will know what I be talk about . I take the point that these matter be devolve , but Mr Angus Robertson seem to flip - flop when it come to fund the art , so I would be grateful for everything the Secretary of State can do to get Netflix , or whoever , to look hard at the Highlands . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to draw attention to Scotland ' s huge cultural asset . I be pleased to meet with my scottish Government counterpart when I visit the Edinburgh Fringe over the summer . I know from the international investment summit , which the Government convene early this week , that partner like Netflix , and many other international investor , see the enormous value of Scotland and the attraction of invest there . this government will do everything we can to support that , and we will put rocket booster under the creative industry in Scotland . Multi - sport Grassroots Facilities what step she be take to support multi - sport grassroot facility . this Government be commit to provide high - quality , inclusive facility that provide opportunity for everyone to get active and healthy . that be why we be invest £ 123 million across the UK in our multi - sport grassroot facility programme . access to those facility be vital for mental health and community cohesion , no more so than in the small town and village that make up my constituency . do the Minister agree that even in place like that we must have equal access to such facility ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . I be pleased to visit her constituency a few month ago ; I represent a similar area , with a collection of town and village . wherever community be , across the country , we want to ensure they have access to local facility . it be so important to get people active , particularly for mental health and wellbeing . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the Minister will know that grassroots sport venue play a key role in improve the nation ' s health . the UK will host the T20 woman ' s world cup in 2026 , and cricket will join the olympic family of sport in 2028 . the previous Government commit a £ 35 million investment into 16 grassroot cricket hub and cricket dome . will the Minister commit this Government to fulfil that promise ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee for her important question . I be pleased to meet the England and Wales Cricket Board a few week ago , and I will be do a visit with its representative in my own constituency tomorrow . we absolutely see the benefit of cricket and , indeed , all sport across the country , but I be obviously not in a position to make spending commitment ahead of the spending review . Grassroots and Non - league Football what step she be take to support grassroot and non - league football . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . as I set out in a previous answer , the Government be invest £ 123 million through football partner in grassroots facility up and down the country . I recently visit Knaresborough Town AFC in my constituency and meet fantastic people who do more than just football . they share the club ' s facility with group such as Rainbow Care , which provide a lifeline to other people , not just those interested in football . due to the weather , the pitch be often waterlogge , and there be a lack of 3 g pitch in the area . will the Minister meet I to talk about how we can do more to support Knaresborough Town and , hopefully , get a pitch down the line ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . I be pleased to hear that he visit his local club , and I would be delighted to meet he . ahead of that meeting , though , I will ask my official to link he up with the Football Foundation , which support grassroots community to get new pitch . I pay tribute to all the volunteer to whom he refer for their fantastic work in the community . Blyth Spartans in my constituency be arguably the most famous non - league club in the UK , but they be now up for sale , with the current chairman fail to deliver on his promise and to engage transparently and openly with the supporter . do my hon . friend agree that non - league football club be at the heart of community and that engagement with supporter be critical to their survival ? I be incredibly grateful to my hon . friend for his question , and I completely agree . now that he have put it in Hansard , perhaps Blyth Spartans be the most well - know club in the country . I echo his comment about fan involvement at every level of the football pyramid and , indeed , in grassroots football . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . from grassroot to professional , the number of woman ' s team have more than double over the past seven year . Cheltenham Town Women have a thriving team , with junior and adult section . sadly , one place above they in the table this season be Lewes FC , who be run the " Equal FA Cup " campaign . do the Minister agree that it be time for equality of prize money across the man ' s and woman ' s fa cup ? I be incredibly grateful to the hon . gentleman for ask such an important question . the Government be fully commit to support and grow woman ' s sport , and to ensure that it be on an equal footing with man ' s sport . the ambition to have equal prize money across sport , where possible , be absolutely right . I know that the Football Association take step last season to double the prize fund for the woman ' s FA cup , and we will pay close attention to see what happen next . Youth Services what recent assessment her Department have make of the impact of youth service on level of antisocial behaviour in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes constituency . I be grateful to my hon . friend for all her work to support young people in her constituency over many year . it be a source of national shame that youth funding decrease by 73 % under the last government — one of the deep cut make to any of our public service — and that there be no real strategy for a generation of young people . this Government be determined to get a grip on this issue to ensure that young people in town such as Grimsby have the opportunity that they deserve . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . a shine example of youth service and their positive impact be the Haven Centre in Osborne Street in my constituency , where a dedicated team offer diversionary activity through sport and craft and give essential mentoring and support . since opening , the Haven have play an important role in reduce antisocial behaviour , with report incident down by 35 % in the town centre over the last year . will the Secretary of State join I in commend the staff at the Haven and all the youth provider across Grimsby and Cleethorpes , and recognise the vital role that they play in provide safety for young people and give they access to new skill and facility that they otherwise would not have ? order . that be a very long question . I would be delighted to pay tribute to youth worker up and down this country , who have do incredible work . they have be a lifeline for young people in what have be a very bleak landscape for too long . I be very pleased to work with my hon . friend and the East Marsh United group in her constituency , and she have do incredible work to support the community over many year in order to facilitate Grimsby ' s onside youth club , of which we have a fantastic example in Wigan . I very much look forward to work with she to develop this work . there be one in Chorley too . as the Member of Parliament for a bit of Grimsby , I share the support of the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) for the excellent work carry out in the area . however , the Secretary of State rightly criticise the last Government for reduce the resource make available to the youth sector . can she reassure I that this Government will actually increase those resource ? we be determined to grip this issue . one of the thing the new Government discover when we open the book be that , although there be several funding source within my Department and across Government , there be no youth strategy at all . we be determined to set that right . we will develop and co - produce a strategy for a generation of young people , work alongside they and with the incredible youth worker at the Haven , the onside youth zone and many other place , include in Chorley , to support a generation to succeed . Creative Industries : Artificial Intelligence what recent discussion she have have with representative of the creative industry on AI . I have have many meeting with the creative industry , which have raise AI at every single one . I make it absolutely clear that human creativity deserve remuneration . wherever we end up , the right of artist , musician , publisher and journalist need to be protect while we garner the significant benefit of artificial intelligence . AI - generate creation that mimic real people — deepfake — can lead to financial and reputational damage for musician and other creative . however , as the domestic violence charity Refuge point out last year , the most common AI - generate deepfake be non - consensual sexual depiction of woman . how do the Government plan to ensure that creative , as well as woman and girl , be adequately protect from the misappropriation of their voice , image , name and likeness ? I be glad that my hon . friend have raise this important issue that affect many people . in the word of Stephen Sondheim , " art isn ' t easy , " and neither be the legislation in this area , but we be determined to look into it . it be already a criminal offence to share an intimate image without consent , whether real or synthetically generate , and we will deliver on our manifesto commitment to ban the creation of sexually explicit deepfake . I call Jim Shannon — at least he ' s not fake . I be the real thing , Mr Speaker . the creative industry in Strangford and across Northern Ireland be very important . in respond to the point raise by the hon . member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) , it be important that Northern Ireland have similar consideration . have the Minister have an opportunity to speak to the relevant Minister in the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure that anything that happen here to protect woman and lady also happen in Northern Ireland ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point . although some of the area we be discuss be , of course , devolve , we want to make sure that the whole UK move forward in the same direction . I be keen to talk to my counterpart in Northern Ireland about this subject . I call the shadow Minister . it be an honour to stand at the Dispatch Box for the first time , although I have to admit that it be not how I picture it . I will do my good not to be a pain in your neck , Mr Speaker . in a nutshell , the creative industry be worried that the Government will essentially give away their intellectual property . I be pleased to hear the Minister ' s response , but the grow concern be raise by the Chair of the Select Committee follow comment by a Minister in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . with that in mind , will the Minister confirm that he will not give away IP through an exemption ? will he assure the House that he will not implement the EU ' s approach , give its flaw ? finally , will he commit to hold a summit between the tech and creative industry to explore licensing and other model ? it be absolutely essential that we protect intellectual property , which be one of the key thing this country have to sell . we have already have two meeting with representative from the creative industry and tech company , and we be keen to move forward . I welcome the hon . gentleman on his d é collet é first appearance at the Dispatch Box . however , I gently push back on his suggestion , as I think the previous Government have embrace Bucks Fizz more than anything else : " Don ' t let your indecision take you from behind . " the previous Government do absolutely nothing in this territory . we be determined to get to a proper resolution that satisfy the need of both the creative industry and artificial intelligence . Grassroots Athletics Clubs what step she be take to support grassroots athletic club to maintain their facility . grassroots sport club be at the heart of community up and down the country . we know just how important they be , which be why we be committed to continue to support high - quality , inclusive facility to get people more active . Crewe and Nantwich athletic club , which celebrate its 50th anniversary this year , be home to the only competitive - standard athletic track in south Cheshire . however , the track be in desperate need of improvement so that the club can continue to flourish and support the young people who use its facility . will the Minister meet I to discuss what support might be available to deliver those crucial improvement ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question and congratulate Crewe and Nantwich athletic club on half a century — what a great achievement ! such sport club be crucial to help our young people to pursue their sporting passion . I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the matter , but in the meantime I will ask my Department to link the club up with England Athletics and other body for further discussion of the support available . English Football : Financial Sustainability what step she be take to support the financial sustainability of english football . I thank my hon . friend for raise this incredibly important issue . football be one of our great export and be a source of joy to people across the country . for too long , however , robust protection have not be in place to ensure that every town , village and city can share in that success . may I take the opportunity to pay tribute to the former Sports Minister Dame Tracey Crouch for her work lead the fan - lead review of football governance ? the Government commit in the King ' s Speech to the football governance Bill and we expect to introduce it shortly . I associate myself with that tribute and thank the Secretary of State for her reply . my constituency be the proud home of read football club , which manage to stay up last season against the odd but which have be the victim of financial mismanagement by absent owner . we desperately need the Government ' s football governance Bill , which will set up a regulator to safeguard club like reading and prevent future abuse . will the Minister meet local fan and I to discuss what we can do to protect the club ? the Sports Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , will be absolutely delighted to do so . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and to the three read mp for their work to protect something that be so incredibly important to their town . I know from my experience of the work we have to do to save Wigan Athletic that when a football club be under threat from mismanagement or poor ownership , it be absolutely devastating for the generation of fan for whom the club be part of their civic inheritance . we look forward to introduce the football governance Bill without any further delay and to work with my hon . friend and colleague to ensure that we introduce the strong possible protection to put fan back at the heart of the game , where they belong . gambling : Harmful Effects what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle the harmful effect of gambling . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle the harmful effect of gambling . the Government be commit to strengthen protection to ensure that people can continue to enjoy gambling as a pastime without the harm that can ensue from problem gambling . we have a dedicated Minister for gambling , Baroness Twycross , who have meet representative across the industry and those affect by problem gambling to seek the wide range of view and ensure that the Government have a robust policy in place . many of we in this House have encounter harrowing story from constituent of the devastating impact of gamble suicide . the Gambling Commission estimate that 2 . 5 % of the population meet the threshold to be categorise as suffer from problem gambling and in need of nhs treatment . my constituency be consider a high - problem gambling area , which mean that we have a high number of people who meet the threshold . be step be take to progress towards an independent statutory levy on the industry to fund the gambling treatment and independent information that so many people urgently need ? the Government be commit to review all the available evidence and listen to the first - hand constituency experience of member of Parliament such as my hon . friend . that way , we can strike the right balance and ensure not only that the industry , which bring joy to many people , continue to thrive , but that we have the most robust protection in place to prevent problem gambling . I will update the House soon on the Government ' s strategy , and Baroness Twycross will be happy to discuss the issue with mps on both side of the House who have personal experience and evidence that we will want to consider . I be sure that the Secretary of State will join I in praise local community group , such as those in Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock , that support people face problem with gambling . at a time when financial resource be limited , and with a black hole leave by the Conservative Government , have the new Government consider the fiscal cost to society of gambling , and particularly online gambling , which have a high risk of harm ? we be very aware of the issue that my hon . friend raise and would be pleased to discuss they with she , as part of ensure that we have the most robust protection in place , particularly in relation to online gambling . we be acutely aware of the problem that can ensue from gambling , but we also know that this be an industry that bring joy to many people . for example , more than half of all adult have participate in some form of gamble over the past year . we know that we must grasp this thorny issue , and we be commit to work with she and other colleague to get it right . the horseracing industry , which be a british success story , be dependent on income from responsible gambling . I be glad to hear what the Secretary of State say about responsibly enjoy a flutter . this be nothing like some of the problem gambling that we see online , and the proportion of bet on horserace that be deem to be problematic be comparable to the proportion of problematic user of the national lottery . what plan do she have to reform the bet levy and the affordability check that have be in train for some time ? I should tell the House that the Tote be headquarter in my constituency of Wigan , which give I an insight into the industry , which I have have a relationship with for many year . there will be a debate on horserace next Thursday in Westminster Hall . this industry be worth £ 4 billion to the UK economy , so this Government certainly take it incredibly seriously . Baroness Twycross be have discussion with representative from across the industry , and I be sure that she would be delighted to discuss this with the hon . member as well . I call the shadow Minister . no one want to see people catch up in problem gambling , but equally , no one want to see business struggle and job lose . as the Secretary of State say , we want this industry to thrive , yet this week that be threaten after it be rumour that the Treasury be plan a £ 3 billion tax raid . that have already see £ 3 billion wipe off the value of bookie . can the Secretary of State clarify whether she support the industry or the Treasury ? do she raise her concern about the rumour , and when will we see the gambling reform bring forward with a timetable for scrutiny by this House ? I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that he should know , as we do , that we can not believe everything we read in the paper . as he will have hear in my previous answer , we be determined to strike the right balance . as I say in answer to the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) a moment ago , we be aware of the value of this industry and of its importance , and not just for the UK economy but for the joy it bring to many people and the employment prospect it offer in every nation and region of the United Kingdom . we be also aware of the problem that can be cause by problem gambling . like the previous Government , we be determined to talk to the wide range of partner and ensure that we strike the right balance between protect people from the problem that can ensue and support a grow industry . secondary Ticketing and dynamic Pricing when she plan to launch a consultation on secondary ticketing and dynamic pricing . we want to put fan back at the heart of live event and we want to ensure that more of the revenue come to the creative industry . that be why we will be launch a consultation on the secondary ticket market soon — the piece of paper in front of I actually say " in the autumn " , but I be never quite sure when that be , so I be go with " soon " . I be grateful to the Minister for his answer . I understand the need to look at secondary ticketing , but dynamic pricing be a contractual bargain between buyer and seller , base on supply and demand . it actually give we cheap ticket as well as more expensive one . do he really want the Government to get involve there ? I know that the Prime Minister want everyone to be able to afford concert ticket , but what be wrong with the way that he get they ? the truth be that dynamic pricing have many different form and some of they be good . for instance , early bird ticket benefit many people , as do buy last - minute ticket for the theatre . we will not interfere with that , but we will have a call for evidence about how that work in relation to live event . on ticket pricing , the real scandal be that , for example , the face value of stand ticket for Coldplay at Wembley on 22 August 2025 be £ 96 . 23 , but when I check StubHub this morning they cost £ 17 , 633 . that be the real scandal and that be what we be go to deal with . topical Questions I call Bob Blackman — not here . if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . after 14 year , this Government have open the book to find a legacy of violent indifference and neglect of art and culture that have create serious challenge for our proud creative industry . I be pleased to tell the House that the Government ' s international investment summit this week put creative industry at the heart of our economic strategy . thank to the support of partner such as Netflix , Universal Music and Tate , we be able to welcome £ 63 billion of investment into the UK . later today , in Downing Street , I will launch a new covenant with our civil society partner to reset what have become a needlessly antagonistic relationship under the last government . we look forward to work with those across the UK to help fulfil the country ' s enormous potential . the Wigan & Leigh short film festival , which take place last month , be once again extremely successful . it be a fantastic opportunity to gather like - minded creative individual from the local area to celebrate and showcase up - and - come talent from around the world . that be just one example of the enriched film and tv culture that be so vibrant in my constituency . I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s announcement of tax relief to create job and boost our creative industry — order . topical question be mean to be short and punchy , not a big , long question , Jo . Minister , can you pick the good out of that ? I completely agree with what my hon . friend be about to say . which part : the first three minute or the second ? I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Secretary of State believe that it be not good policy that count , but good vibe : the violent indifference that lead to a booming creative sector be no long ; the culture war be over ; and we , the vanquished , submit ourselves for re - education along with the rest of the public . the problem be that every DCMS sector tell we that they want more than vibe ; they need decision and they want a Budget that will deliver . can she tell we whether she be among the panicked Ministers who have write to the Chancellor about the Budget and their spending ask , and which have she list as her priority ? I be not entirely sure what the " vibe " issue be , but I will say that I do not need to write to the Chancellor . unlike under the previous Government , we have a very close relationship and we tend to pick up the phone when discussion need to be have . alongside the Chancellor , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade and the Prime Minister , I be pleased this week to welcome £ 63 billion of investment into the UK to put creative industry at the heart of our economic strategy . I speak to some of the DCMS stakeholder who go to the investment summit , and they come away worried . they see a government who absolutely milk their stardust , but all they hear be new taxis , new employment regulation , other Departments ride roughshod over DCMS interest and delay to decision . can the Secretary of State be specific ? when she say that she be " put rocket booster " under the creative industry , what do that mean in practice ? as I announce to the House last week , it mean introduce an independent film tax credit , which the previous Government talk about for several month and do absolutely nothing about . I have to say to the hon . Lady that after the legacy that her government leave , which have bring our proud country to its knee , it take some brass neck to stand at the Dispatch Box and criticise this government . we be fix the problem that her government create , and a little bit of humility might go a long way . in March 1974 , a Turkish Airlines jet crash while fly from Paris to London . More than 400 people be kill . among they be 19 member of the Bury St Edmunds rugby club . it be the great disaster to befall the town in live memory . this year , 60 cyclist cycle from Paris to bury St Edmunds , raise £ 200 , 000 in their memory . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate these bold cyclist ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question . I congratulate the cyclist on complete their fantastic ride and on the impressive sum of money that they raise . I pay particular tribute to Austin Cornish , the organiser of the ride , whose father die in that crash . woman be those most often criminalise for non - payment of the licence fee . the BBC charter review offer an opportunity for the Government to look at this issue again . will the Government consider decriminalise non - payment of the licence fee ? I thank the right hon . member for raise this important issue . I be deeply concerned by the number of case that have be bring to my attention since take office of woman who have fall foul of this practice . I have personally have discussion with the BBC leadership about that . obviously , the charter review , which we intend to start early next year , offer we an opportunity to look at these issue in the round . order . we be go to have to get through the question more quickly . we do not have much time . I recently visit the fantastic Shinfield Studios in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and see the huge value that our creative industry can bring to my constituent . will the Minister please tell I what the inclusion of the creative industry in the industrial strategy and the huge investment deliver at the investment summit last week will deliver for my constituency and other like it ? it be great to see my hon . friend here . first , we want to ensure that more international movie and blockbuster be make in the UK , and we want to increase investment . with more sound stage , we should be able to challenge Hollywood . I also want to ensure that every single child in this country can consider a career in the creative industry , whatever background they come from . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . eastbourne art gallery such as the Towner and Devonshire collective VOLT — it make the tie I be wear — contribute so much to our town and to our country , but the sector face serious financial pressure . will the Minister meet I and a delegation of art gallery to discuss they ? I will happily meet the hon . member , who make a very good point . we have hundred of museum and gallery across the country . some of they receive funding directly from Arts Council England . we want to talk to Arts Council England about how we can ensure that there be more support for our museum and gallery . some of the funding come directly from our Department . I be happy to meet he to discuss that . I advise the House that my sister work for Rugby League Cares . the Minister will know that my constituency be the birthplace of rugby league . at a professional and community level , the game be really important to town such as mine , but it have not always have the support that it deserve . the Rugby Football League have produce a national community facility strategy , which state the level of funding that be need for the game . what step be she take to support long - term investment in rugby league ? we know just how important the work of the Rugby Football League be in community — I have see it at first hand , as I know you have , Mr Speaker . it be one of the reason the RFL have receive just under £ 1 million in funding from Sport England over the past financial year to help tackle inequality and improve access . I look forward to work with the sport in the month and year ahead . I look forward to the increase as well . when mobile provider start to turn off the 2 g and 3 g network early this year , we be tell that it would have no impact on exist service , but the experience in my constituency be the contrary , particularly along the M74 motorway network . will Ministers investigate the impact of the switch - off to date , and ensure that necessary improvement be make so that we have a full network across the whole of the United Kingdom ? I think this be a hangover from yesterday ' s question on telecom , but the right hon . Member make a very good point . one of the thing that keep I awake at night be worry about what will happen to the transition for people with telecare device , which rely on the old public switch telephone network . we be keen to have a safe transition . exactly the same issue apply to 2 g and 3 g . I will happily meet with he , if that would help . in Southend East and Rochford , the Freight House and the Kursaal sit vacant . in time go by , my community use those site greatly . we can not allow building with such cultural capital potential to sit vacant . do the Minister agree that the regeneration of cultural site such as the Kursaal and the Freight House be central to a prosperous community ? I very much welcome the work that my hon . friend be do to champion his community , and offer he the Government ' s support for it . I be work with the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government ahead of the publication of our forthcoming devolution plan to ensure that we give community the tool to bring our proud heritage site back into use , and to repurpose they for future generation . I urge the Secretary of State and the ministerial team to take account of the list place of worship grant scheme , which be particularly valuable to many church up and down the country , and to not allow the Treasury to trim it back . it may expire at the end of March next year . the right hon . Gentleman know very well that spend review issue be a matter for the Treasury — let we see what come out of that review . I have have lot of representation , and he make a good point . my beloved Aston Villa make their first appearance in the european cup for over 40 year this season , but fan face ticket price of £ 94 to see that first - in - a - generation moment . do the Secretary of State agree that we need great fan representation on football board , so that football remain accessible to all ? I be pleased to offer my hon . friend our support on that . the football governance Bill , which we intend to introduce shortly , will significantly advance the protection of fan . we be work with the wide range of partner , and we hope to command proper cross - party support , as the previous Football Governance Bill do before the election . East Devon district council be make available £ 207 , 000 for young people ' s sport facility in Honiton . how can central Government contribute to that initiative ? we be pleased to have announce investment worth £ 123 million in grassroots sport facility for the come year . demand currently outstrip the pace at which such facility can be create , but the Government be absolutely determined to work with the hon . Gentleman and partner across the House to ensure that we give our young people the facility that they deserve . Historic England recently announce a £ 750 , 000 commitment to rebuild the beautiful victorian arch of Madeira Terrace in my constituency , which the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism visit with I during the election campaign . that commitment be welcome , but such project be expensive and take time , so what can the Secretary of State do to support heritage project around the country , and will she come to Brighton with I to see the work in progress ? I think my hon . friend may be get I again . it be a great delight that the arch will be sort , not least because we launch his election campaign at that very site . our heritage be a key reason why so many international visitor come to this country . if we can get the mix of historical and modern right , I be sure that we can challenge France for international visitor number . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Small Rural Communities what step the Church of England be take to support parish life in small rural community . with your indulgence , Mr Speaker , as this be my first time respond to question , I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my predecessor as Second Church Estates Commissioner , the former Member for South West Bedfordshire , Andrew Selous , for his work in the role . I certainly hope to do my good in it for parliamentarian and commissioner . turn to my hon . friend ' s question , the Church of England operate 16 , 000 parish church , over half of which be in rural area , along with Church school . it provide the large network of building in England that serve community — building that be use for worship and education , as well as warm space and hub for activity such as food bank , post office , credit union and other social and community initiative . the parish of Bewcastle in the north - east corner of my constituency be perhaps well know as the home of the Bewcastle cross , probably the fine example of pre - Norman carving in England . geographically , it be a very isolated community , but every single month , parishioner organise a vibrant community hub , which be critical in overcome social isolation and loneliness . next month will mark 1 , 350 year since the carving of the cross , so will my hon . friend ask the Church Commissioners to consider additional funding for the parish to improve the village hall ? I congratulate all the volunteer in the parish of Bewcastle on their work to tackle social isolation and loneliness . I will look into the specific case that my hon . friend mention and see what advice can be give to support she . I also commend the work of the good Shepherd multi - academy trust , which be in her constituency and support child , family and community to flourish . I welcome the Second Church Estates Commissioner to her place , and thank she for her answer to the previous question . as everyone know , the purpose of any church be to tell the great story ever tell — the story of the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ — but alongside that they have practical purpose , which the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) refer to . those purpose include look after the elderly , as well as child , through childcare and nursery ; and there be also the social medium and the event that church host . those be the practical outpouring of the gospel in the life of those whom we reach . what will the Church Commissioners do to ensure that those thing happen , alongside the telling of the gospel ? as the hon . member highlight , there be so much that the Church do by way of outreach in our community . it also ensure that there be good infrastructure to protect all our community , include child and young people . former Church Sites what step the Church be take to support the development of housing on derelict former church site . when a church be close , a formal legal process under the Mission and Pastoral Measure 2011 be follow . there be currently 127 case in which a new use be be find for closed church building ; only two be clear site , and they be wait for disposal . I welcome the hon . Lady to her place . Eastbourne declare a housing emergency last year , and the key thing we need to do to address that emergency be build our way out of it . the commissioner preside over a perfect brownfield site for housing : the site of the former St Elisabeth ' s church on Victoria Drive , just down the road from where I go to school . it have be derelict for 20 year , and since the church on the site be demolish four year ago , there have be no sign of development whatsoever . I urge the commissioner to develop that site into affordable housing , and I appeal to the hon . Lady for an urgent update on the situation . since 2022 , the Church Commissioners have be work with the diocese of Chichester to market the site and find a developer . I be pleased to say that a developer be in the process of agree to a conditional contract for a mixed - use development that will include convenience retail and housing , some of which will be much - need affordable housing , which the hon . Member mention . that development will need planning permission , and that be be explore with the local authority now . access to place of worship what step the Church be take with developer and local authority to ensure that resident in new town and village have access to place of worship . local authority be not currently require to consider the building of new place of worship , but under the national planning policy framework they be permit to include place of worship among a range of community building in a development . where local authority include place of worship among community building , the Church Commissioners seek to promote these facility . development should be about build place and community where people can live fulfilling life , not just build house , and place of worship play an important role in that . will the hon . member work with Ministers to ensure that the Government ' s new town commission incorporate the creation of place of worship in new town ? the Church Commissioners be very much invest in place - making ; it be at the core of their approach to bring forward new home for community across the country . they have seek a meeting with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government to discuss the Church ' s strategic land , and the potential to build up to 70 , 000 new home . the diocese of St Albans have several good example of how the Church be contribute to community - building in the Mid Bedfordshire constituency , and I will write to the hon . gentleman with further detail . Independent Safeguarding Board Review what step the Church have take in response to the finding of Sarah Wilkinson ' s independent review into the Independent Safeguarding Board . the General Synod of the Church of England consider the Wilkinson review at its meeting in July 2024 . the synod have commission a detailed analysis of four option for the organisational structure of safeguard independence . the intention be for they to be present to the synod at the next meeting in February 2025 , which I hope to attend . I welcome my hon . friend to her role ; she be do a fantastic job . my constituent have be involve in that process . can she help to secure a meeting with my constituent to discuss the finding and the work in more detail ? I will do whatever I can to secure a meeting . it be important to put on record that there have be much engagement with all the survivor , who have be involve throughout the process . I will certainly write to my hon . friend to see what we can do to ensure that a meeting be secure . recognition of Positive Impact what step the Church be take to recognise the positive impact of individual member of the clergy in the community they serve . I call Marsha de Cordova — you be earn your money today . I certainly be , and so be my thigh . at a national level , the contribution of local clergy and lie people be usually recognise through the Archbishops ' medal or a Lambeth degree . Most diocese also have their own award . clergy and lie volunteer be eligible for nomination to relevant order , and for decoration and medal , and there be opportunity in the wide civil honours system where appropriate . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for that answer . I be full of praise for the hard work and dedication of all our clergy , but sometimes an individual go above and beyond . that be true of Reverend Canon David Williams , who on Christmas day will lead his last service at St Mary ' s , Princes Risborough , after 15 year ' service to that town and the surround village . his work include have support thousand of child through Lighthouse Princes Risborough , and his role as a trustee of the Princes Centre and other charity , include those support the homeless . will the hon . Lady join I in thank David and his wife Jo for their 15 year ' service to Princes Risborough ? what more can the Church do to recognise his and other ' hard work ? I place on record my thank , congratulation and appreciation of Reverend Canon David Williams and his wife — as we know , these thing be always a partnership — for all their good work in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . the Diocese of Oxford be thankful for the dedicated , pioneer and innovative work of the clergy and their great contribution to the Church ' s ministry and mission , and to our local community . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will pass on my thank , and that he will be present for the reverend ' s final service on Christmas morning , to congratulate he in person . Interfaith Understanding what progress the Church have make on develop interfaith understanding . some 85 % of the global population have a faith that shape their day - to - day life . the Church have be work at a global , national and local level to improve interfaith understanding and engagement . at home , it engage with national and local network to support faith and civic leader , mayor and mps in build trust and resilience in their local community , as they do during and after the most recent civil unrest . I welcome my hon . friend to her post ; she be do a fine job . will she join I in congratulate the local faith community across the diverse and tolerant town of read on their work to support one another , and to understand one another ' s faith ? I associate myself with that tremendous work ; it be wonderful to see different faith community work together for the whole community . I also put on record my support for the retire Bishop of Reading , Bishop Olivia , and pay tribute to she for her outstanding work to tackle knife crime in our community . I join my hon . friend in congratulate all those work across all faith to ensure that there be good , strong community cohesion , and I congratulate the retire bishop . that be important across constituency that , like reading , have diverse community with diversity in faith . ordination of Women : 30th anniversary what step the Church be take to mark the 30th anniversary of the ordination of woman . what step the Church be take to mark the 30th anniversary of the ordination of woman . it be so important that we celebrate woman who have be ordinate . Tuesday 12 March 2024 mark the 30th anniversary of the first ordination of woman as priest in the Church of England , and about 6 , 500 woman have be ordain since 1994 . woman now make up about one third of the clergy in England , and obviously this proportion be grow . many service of celebration have take place across the country to recognise the considerable contribution that these woman have make and continue to make to the Church . however , as we all know , there be still a long way to go and much more work to be do in this area . I congratulate my hon . friend on the excellent job she be do today , and on her appointment . I want to highlight one particular woman , Bishop Rose . in 2007 , she be appoint chaplain to her late Majesty the Queen , the first ever black female to hold that role . in 2010 , she be the first ever black female appoint as chaplain — the 79th chaplain — to the Speaker of the House of Commons . since 2019 , the Right Rev . Rose Hudson - Wilkin have be the Bishop of Dover and the Bishop in Canterbury — Britain ' s first ever black female bishop . will my hon . friend join I in honour Bishop Rose ? I take great pleasure in honour the great Bishop Rose . as we all know , it be Black History Month , so there be double cause to do so . the diocese of London mark the anniversary , and there have be several service mark it across the country , in which 180 woman have gather to share their experience of ministry over the past 30 year . we all know what a difference Bishop Rose make to this place , include to I personally when I first come here seven and a half year ago . I should also pay tribute to Tricia Hillas , the Speaker ' s chaplain for a period of time , another great and amazing woman . I be so proud of the role that woman be play in the Church . they be break down barrier and smash those glass ceiling . long may that continue . I welcome my dear friend to her position , and I know she will be absolutely brilliant . I be thrill to attend the 30 - year anniversary of the first woman ordain at Canterbury cathedral early this year . the service be conduct by our dear Bishop Rose , our much - love former chaplain to the Speaker . will my friend join I in congratulate those pioneer woman , include my partner ' s mother , Canon Eileen Routh , who face a degree of hostility when enter into their new vocation some 30 year ago ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I happily join she in congratulate the great Bishop Rose , but also in remember all those woman who face hostility when start out , include her future mother - in - law , Canon Eileen Routh ; she face a lot of hostility . as I say , there be still so much work to be do , but it be so important that we celebrate these achievement , because they will spur we forward to do even more . restoration Funding what estimate the Church Commissioners have make of level of funding require to restore parish church and cathedral . church and cathedral be the treasure house of our local culture and history . the Church of England manage the large single group of list building in England — over 12 , 200 grade I and grade II list building . the value of the work need to maintain these building be estimate at £ 115 million annually , and the backlog for church building repair be approximately £ 1 billion . there be many place of worship in perilous condition , not just in England , but in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , include in my constituency of West Dunbartonshire . the list place of worship grant scheme , introduce by former Chancellor Gordon Brown in 2004 , be UK - wide . what effort have the Church Commissioners make to ensure that the scheme be extend beyond March 2025 ? my hon . friend will know that the Church do not receive any regular financial support from the state , and church building often rely on fundraise by local volunteer . the Government ' s list place of worship grant scheme be extremely helpful for all our faith community with list building across the UK , reimburse the cost of vat spend on repair to those list church . this year , more than 5 , 000 church of England building receive support through the scheme . that be transformational for local community , and enable work on the vital fabric of those space . it be important that that funding scheme continue . the Church have write to the Treasury , along with other , and I hope that my hon . friend in the Treasury will consider extend the scheme in the upcoming Budget later this month . I welcome the hon . Lady to her new role , and I associate myself with her tribute to her predecessor . in recent time , the late noble Lord Cormack in the other place convene a meeting of mps from cathedral city and their dean , and there be plan to resurrect that meeting . will the hon . Lady meet I to discuss how we can support she with plan to lobby the Treasury for capital grant for our great english cathedral , include Salisbury , to maintain their presence in our country ? yes , I be very happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman . House of Commons Commission the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , represent the House of Commons Commission , be ask — access to Period Products whether the Commission be take step to increase access to period product on the parliamentary estate . may I say how glad I be to give my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) a break this morning ? I also praise the former Chair of the Administration Committee , Sir Charles Walker ; he have be a great friend and a great champion for this House . I thank my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) for ask this important question . the House of Commons Administration be commit to provide period product for emergency use ; they be available free of charge in select toilet across the parliamentary estate . no one should be put in an uncomfortable situation due to lack of access to emergency period product . may I say how glad I be to be ask this question today , so that my hon . friend can also earn his pay ? free period product in the workplace be essential item , but in far too many place of work they be see as optional . I know there be a few place around the parliamentary estate where free period product can be access , but more place be require and we can not leave out our constituency office . will he ensure that more period product be make available both here and in constituency office around the country ? my hon . friend make a great point . the House service be ask a year ago to provide period product for emergency use , and it engage with group , such as our workplace equality network , to ensure accessible product throughout our House . on constituency office , as Members of Parliament we be responsible for our staff , and away from this estate I would expect a Member , as an employer , to decide on what provision to arrange for their team . however , I be happy to take that point back to the Administration Committee for further consideration of take - up and distribution , and I will contact my hon . friend in good time on the matter . restoration and Renewal what recent progress have be make on the restoration and renewal programme . early this year , the Restoration and Renewal Client Board publish the strategic case for the r and r programme , which set out how to deliver the r and r work that will be develop in detail over the next year . this detailed work , which will include robust cost , timescale and risk estimate for all three option , be expect to be present to the House in 2025 to enable an evidence - base decision on how good to restore our lovely Palace . it feel a bit like groundhog day — we have be talk about restoration and renewal for 40 year . bit be fall off the building , there be leak in every office I have have in this building and in each part of the estate , and we all know the problem of asbestos and the issue in the basement . my hon . friend have give I the timetable , but can he say that he will champion this issue , and that we will finally get to a resolution before a catastrophic event in this place destroy this world heritage site ? I know that my hon . friend have be an advocate for this programme for many year . together , as member of the Public Accounts Committee , we seek safety for all of we here on the estate , the modernisation of our facility and value for money . detailed design be be develop and survey continue . the work of the r and r programme have be continue at pace over the past six month , follow the work of the client board and the programme board . we will work together on this . I apologise for not be here early . can the hon . Gentleman confirm that we be spend more than £ 1 million a month on just the maintenance of this Palace ? the long delay — there be no reason for it — over make these decision lengthen the process and lead to the taxpayer pay more money , and it be lead to more degradation of this Palace as we sit here . the hon . member be right about the importance of move fast and reduce cost on this important programme . I do not know the detailed answer to the question he ask , but I will get back to he . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Communication with Diocese Leaders what step the Church be take to help ensure that people can contact and communicate with the leader of their diocese . my hon . friend ' s constituency be under the jurisdiction of the diocese of Coventry , and there be currently a vacancy for the diocesan bishop . however , all the contact detail for the bishop ' s office , diocesan staff and cathedral staff be find on the website . contact detail for local clergy be also available on the website a church near you . I thank my hon . friend for their response and welcome they to their new role , in which they be do a brilliant job . constituent in Nuneaton have raise concern about find available burial plot . give the recent consultation from the Law Commission , can my hon . friend please update the House on proposal to increase burial capacity in England ? the Church of England contribute to the proposal develop by the Law Commission , and they have develop those proposal sensitively to address the complex question around burial and cremation law . all side recognise the grow need and the pressure for burial space , and the challenge face burial ground and maintenance . reuse grave space in churchyard in some circumstance be a long - stand and lawful practice in the Church of England , ensure that exist remain be leave undisturbed . however , some churchyard be declare full and be close by law . they be unable to be reopen for new burial . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for next week be as follow : Monday 21 October — Second reading of the Employment Rights Bill . Tuesday 22 October — Second reading of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 23 October — Motion to approve the Infected Blood Compensation Scheme Regulations 2024 , follow by a motion to approve the Iran ( Sanctions ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , follow by a debate on a motion relate to the independent expert panel . Thursday 24 October — general debate on Black History Month . Friday 25 October — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 28 October will include : Monday 28 October — general debate — subject to be announce . Tuesday 29 October — remain stage of the great british Energy Bill . Wednesday 30 October — my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will deliver her Budget statement . Thursday 31 October — Continuation of the Budget debate . Friday 1 November — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 4 November will include : Monday 4 November — Continuation of the Budget debate . Tuesday 5 November — Continuation of the Budget debate . Wednesday 6 November — Conclusion of the Budget debate . the House will rise for the November recess at the conclusion of business on Wednesday 6 November and return on Monday 11 November . may I start by pay tribute to Alex Salmond , a substantial figure in our politic and personally always very popular across the House ? we will all miss he . we also fondly remember Sir David Amess , whose crest be on the wall opposite I , and who be cruelly murder three year ago this week . Sir David and his family will remain forever in our thought and prayer . I congratulate colleague who introduce Bills yesterday . the Bill on terminally ill adult have attract particular interest . get the detail right will be critical . if the Bill proceed , will the Government commit to provide the time need in Committee and on Report for full debate and vote ? we have just hear that the Budget will be deliver in 13 day ' time . there be not much enthusiasm from Labour Members when the Leader of the House announce that — I can not imagine why . labour solemnly pledge in its manifesto that it would not raise national insurance , so raise employer ' s NI would break that promise , as well as hit work people and destroy job . but hon . member should not just take my word for it . Paul Johnson of the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies say that Labour ' s NI plan be " a straightforward breach " of its manifesto commitment . the Federation of Small Businesses say it would be " a clear manifesto breach " and will " hit work people " . ukhospitality say it be " a tax on job " . the British Chambers of Commerce say it will " hobble growth and lead to … less money to invest " in worker . the Institute of Directors call it " a poll tax on business " and say that " the cost will be bear by worker . " my final witness be Rachel , from Leeds , who apparently use to work briefly at the Bank of England . in 2021 , the Chancellor herself admit that a rise in employer ' national insurance be , in fact , in her word , a " tax on work people " . now , Labour Members could have be honest in the election and make the argument for the increase , but they be not honest ; they pretend that they have no intention of increase NI , to trick people into voting for they . however , this be not just about Labour ' s election dishonesty . in a Radio 5 live phone - in yesterday , I speak to a man who be close down his business and leave the country because of the high taxis and increase regulation propose by this Government . another man phone in to say he be close down too . this government be drive business to close and make successful people leave the country . their policy will destroy job and reduce the amount of tax collect . I say to they sincerely that there be time in the next 13 day to stop and think again . I appeal directly to Labour Back Benchers , whom the Prime Minister be more likely to listen to than I , to please appeal to their Prime Minister to think again . otherwise , his personal poll rating — already minus 36 % — be likely to plummet far . speak of the Prime Minister , will the Leader of the House arrange a statement on the special police escort for Taylor Swift ? it be report that the police decide initially that no special escort be need . apparently , the Home Secretary , the Attorney General , the Mayor of London and , inevitably , Sue Gray then pressure the police into change their mind and provide one , violate the police ' s operational independence . we now know that among the many freebie that the Prime Minister have eagerly scrounge for himself be ticket and a backstage pass to that very concert . and it be not just he : the Home Secretary , the Science Secretary , the Culture Secretary , the Health Secretary , the Education Secretary , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the Minister for School Standards and the Prime Minister ' s parliamentary Private Secretary all have free ticket too . what be they do ? have a Cabinet meeting at the concert ? do the Leader of the House understand how bad this look ? the Government initially deny that the Met be pressure , which now appear to be untrue . will the Government finally come clean and tell the truth about exactly what pressure be put on the Met and by whom ? finally , will the Leader of the House arrange a debate on illegal immigration and asylum accommodation ? it emerge this week that the Government be seek even more hotel , at huge expense , to cater for the large number of illegal arrival . over 13 , 000 illegal immigrant have cross the channel by small boat since the election . the Government must now regret cancel the Rwanda scheme before it have even start . the deterrent effect would by now have kick in . we have see the same approach work in Australia . we have see the deterrent effect work with return to Albania . even the European Commission be now look at a Rwanda - style scheme . will the right hon . Lady therefore consider reinstate the scheme , give that the European Commission itself be now look at it ? and why have the Government close the Bibby Stockholm , leave they instead frantically rent expensive hotel ? the Government be fail on illegal immigration . the country and the House need answer . order . Shadow Leader of the House , you get five minute . please do not take advantage . if you have good point to make , please make they early . I join the shadow Leader of the House in pay tribute to Alex Salmond , a great parliamentarian who have sadly pass away . I also pay tribute to the late Sir David Amess , as this week mark three year since his awful murder . we still miss he greatly in this House . I also send condolence to the friend and family of Liam Payne . one Direction be love by million across the world , and this be a tragic end for someone so young . I would like to draw the House ' s attention to the Modernisation Committee ' s call for view on its future work , which have be publish this morning . I be hope to hear many view , and I thank the shadow Leader of the House and other Committee member for their constructive engagement so far . as the right hon . Gentleman mention , the private Member ' s Bills be present yesterday . I know that many colleague want to ensure that proper time and consideration be give to the important matter of assist dying . as a Member of this House who be present last time we consider this issue , I know that these debate of conscience bring out the very good of Parliament in respectful and consider debate . I be sure that we all welcome this week ' s news that inflation be now low than the Bank of England ' s target , for the first time in three year . after so much political instability , economic turbulence and rise bill , it will be a huge relief for family . but it be just the first step in secure the economy . give the state of the public finance we inherit , there be a long road ahead . the Conservatives do not like to hear it , but they leave the country ' s finance in a very sorry state . they duck the decision on thing that they know would explode after the election , and be grossly irresponsible : pay deal leave on Ministers ' desk with no money allocate ; this year ' s pay rise for teacher not fund , and last year ' s not either ; a hospital building programme that be a work of fiction , not worth the paper it be write on ; out - of - control expenditure in Departments , like the billion spend on asylum hotel ; reserve for this financial year spend three time over ; waiting list at a record high , with industrial action rip through the NHS ; and prison on the verge of collapse . it be a Government who know they be about to lose , and leave we to pick up the piece . this be not about not just the £ 22 billion black hole that we have now ; it be a black hole year after year . do nothing be not an option . if we do not deal with it , market lose confidence and the cost of borrowing go up . we see two year ago what happen , do not we not ? the poor in society pay the high price when the economy tank . we be all still pay high mortgage and high cost after what the shadow Leader of the House do when he be the Chief Secretary of the Treasury in Liz Truss ' s Cabinet . I will not be discuss the measure that may or may not be in the Budget . the Chancellor be work night and day to deliver economic stability . we stand by all our manifesto commitment , and we know that we need to live within our mean . I have say it once and I will say it again : I will not take the right hon . Gentleman ' s advice on economic stability , if he do not mind . the right hon . Gentleman raise the Taylor Swift concert , inevitably . let I say to this House [ Interruption . ] no , I be not there . the concert generate £ 1 billion for the UK visitor economy this summer . surely people welcome that . I know that he be interested in quote other people ; he might want to read what the conservative peer Andrew Lloyd Webber say in the Times today : the continue attention on this concert by the Conservatives be " ludicrous " . it be about time they " shake it off " , quite honestly — someone have to get it in . the right hon . Gentleman raise the Rwanda scheme . frankly , more Home Secretaries from his Government go to Rwanda than illegal migrant . we be fix the mess that the Conservatives leave behind , as we be across all policy area . we be restore confidence and govern for the long term . just this week , our investment summit attract record private sector investment — twice as much as be attract by the same conference under his watch last year . business be come to Britain ; a vote of confidence in Labour ' s handling of the economy , turn the page on the instability and infighting that happen in the past . just this week , we have go far : we have publish our industrial strategy ; unlocked thousand of new home on brownfield site ; keep our promise to veteran on voter ID ; tackle spiral car insurance cost ; take our first step on Martyn ' s law and on remove hereditary peer , which Conservative Members be against ; publish our Employment Rights Bill ; take action on carer ' s allowance overpayment ; increase independent film tax credit ; and , today , open funding application for school - base nursery . that be the difference that just one week of a Labour Government can make , unlike the Tories . this weekend , I have the great and fun privilege of attend the Windrush celebration at all Saints church in my constituency . it be as much a discussion as a celebration . will the Leader of the House provide either a Government statement or Government time for a debate on the Windrush compensation scheme and the improvement that will hopefully be make under this government ? I thank my hon . friend for that question ; she be absolutely right . the scandal of the Windrush generation still scar our country . those injustice be be further by the delay to the compensation scheme , which this Government be take quick action to put right , . I be sure she could raise these matter in Home Office question next week . I thank the Leader of the House for the helpful clarity she have provide in give notice of three week ' worth of business . we very much hope that this be how she intend to continue go forward . I also join she in send my condolence to the family of Liam Payne , who have pass away so tragically . it be with enormous sadness that I learn just two day ago of a horrific murder commit in broad daylight in a residential area of my Chelmsford constituency . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in send condolence to the victim ' s grieve family at this terrible time . as Essex police be now conduct an ongoing major incident investigation , I can not comment much far on the specific , except to say that I understand that this be a vicious attack with three male suspect spot leave the scene wear balaclavas . I encourage member of the public who have any information to get in touch with Essex police . my thought also go out to the brave police , paramedic and other first responder who have to attend such awful scene across the entire country . I thank they for the incredible work they do and send they assurance from the liberal Democrat Benches that we have their back . we will never stop campaign for the funding and resource they need to support they , which the previous Government do not prioritise , lead to the grave issue we see now in our beloved NHS and other emergency service . finally , Lake Windermere be England ' s large lake . its beauty be internationally renowned . it be home to countless specie of wildlife and surround habitat , and it be a haven for swimmer and water sport enthusiast . it be therefore shocking to read the BBC revelation that north - west water company , United Utilities , spend three year spew over 100 million litre of raw sewage into Lake Windermere . the failure of United Utilities be clear for all to see , unlike the water it be pollute . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time to discuss the ongoing appalling behaviour of water company ? I see try to give the House as much forward business and as many recess date as possible in order to provide certainty as a key performance indicator , and I thank the hon . Lady for her comment in that regard . I be very sorry to hear about the murder in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , and I join she in thank all the service — the police , the NHS and other — that do such an amazing job when it come to these awful incident . the hon . Lady rightly raise the truly appalling scandal of discharge into windermere . as a northerner , I be a frequent visitor to the Lake District , and I be aware of its beauty and its importance not only as a tourist attraction but as a habitat for wildlife . the Government have take rapid action in deal with our water boss and clean up our waterway . in his first week in the job , the Environment Secretary ringfence infrastructure spending and empower customer to hold boss to account , and the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill be currently in the House of Lords and will come to this House soon . however , that be not all we have do : we have also launch a full review of water reform to ensure that we have the governance right and can take appropriate action , include sanction , to prevent these discharge from happen again . I welcome the introduction of the Renters ' right Bill last week , but many more of my constituent be social housing tenant than be private renter , and they be live in seriously overcrowded condition , often with damp and mould . this be not always entirely the fault of the landlord , but the condition in which people be live exacerbate exist problem . will the Leader of the House grant we a debate in Government time about the real need for investment in social housing , which , accord to the Government ' s own figure , be the good value for money for the taxpayer and prevent health and other problem ? my hon . friend be right : in recent year this country have have a woeful record of building and create social home , which be fundamental for many people . I be strike by what the Deputy Prime Minister say once — that she have grow up in a council house , which at the time be see as impoverishment , whereas today it be consider a privilege to get a council house . the Government be commit to build 1 . 5 million new home , a great many of which will be new social and council housing . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I look forward to meet the Leader of the House next week to discuss the Committee ' s work . I have encourage party on both side of the House to ensure that we get the name in so that we can get the Committee up and run , but give that we be not up and run yet , may I make a suggestion for the general debate on 28 October that the Leader of the House have announce ? many of my jewish constituent enjoy play golf at Hendon golf club . recently , during Yom Kippur , the most abhorrent antisemitic statement be rake into the bunker . that be under police investigation , but may we have a debate on 28 October on how we can create measure to combat hate crime across all religion and all background , so that we can unite and show the House that we be determined to stamp out behaviour of this abhorrent nature in society ? I look forward to meet the hon . gentleman next week , and to work closely with he as the Backbench Business Committee get under way in the come week . I be extremely sorry to hear about the antisemitic attack at Hendon golf club , especially as they take place during Yom Kippur . that really be something that we need to end in this country , and we must continue to speak up about it , as the hon . Gentleman frequently do in the House . he have make a very good suggestion for a debate , and I shall certainly speak to the Chief Whip and other about it . many of my constituent face serious problem with antisocial behaviour and crime of various type . the Government be take renew action to tackle those problem , and I be pleased to hear some of the announcement from the new Home Secretary . would the Leader of the House be able to arrange a debate in Government time on this very important matter ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . crime and antisocial behaviour blight many community and be frequently raise at business question by the member that represent those community . that be why we be take action to create more neighbourhood police , as well as bring in respect order and other action to tackle antisocial behaviour . Home Office question be next week and he may want to raise the issue then as well . I reassure the Leader of the House that some of we feel that nothing be too good for the marvellous Taylor Swift , include , where appropriate , a police escort for her " Getaway Car " . however , there can be no doubt that the terrorism threat be intensify . can we have a statement , as soon as possible , on the report in today ' s medium about the possibility that Russia be behind an incendiary device that be fly in on a plane to the United Kingdom , but fortunately do not ignite until it be in a warehouse in Birmingham ? we have see many of those report , and we hear from the head of the security service , in a key speech he give last week , about some of the threat that our amazing security service thwart , which we often do not know about . Home Office question be next week , but if the right hon . Gentleman do not get the answer he want , I will encourage the Home Secretary to consider give we a security update . I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' interest . many former miner who suffer from acute respiratory disease be apply to the Department for Work and Pensions for compensation , but the default response be that the process take 16 week . that be totally unacceptable for people with such condition . can we have a debate in Government time to discuss and investigate why the DWP be take so long to ensure that there be justice for people who suffer from such condition because of their occupation ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter ; I know he have raise it many time in the House . many of the compensation scheme that we , as a Government , have inherit be still take far too long . I will raise the matter he talk about with the DWP on his behalf . the subject would make a good topic for debate in the future . the Labour and conservative party be get down to the business of decide who should serve on Select Committees . that be an important task and good luck to those who get those job . however , one group be effectively exclude from participate in cross - party scrutiny in this Parliament : member of the small party of this House . for the first time since Select Committees be establish , there be no place for member of any of the small party , except if the government gift we a place through their largesse and generosity . we be effectively bar from participate in Select Committees . how can that be right or acceptable ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the issue . as I hope he be aware , there be a long - establish convention and practice that the small party have representation on Committees , especially Members from the devolved nation on their relative Select Committee . that process be still ongoing . some name be mention on the order paper today , but they only relate to some of the place that be to be allocate . those conversation be continue through the usual channel . it be my understanding that there will be place available on some of those Committees for Members of the Scottish National party and some of the other small party . will the Leader of the House arrange for a debate about how we can build more social housing and improve accommodation for homeless people ? she be aware that there be a homeless hostel in my constituency call Bevin Court . St Anne ' s Community Services would like to improve and renovate the hostel , and pay for that by sell off some of the land and build social housing on it , which would require a change in the covenant by Government . lawyer have spend 12 month argue about this and get nowhere . I write to Ministers in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities in the previous Government , but the matter be pass on to the Ministry of Justice . in this Parliament , I have write to the Ministry of Justice but it have be pass back to the Housing Minister . will the Leader of the House intervene to try to get this important project off the ground , and simply get the change of covenant that the organisation be ask for ? my hon . friend raise a really important matter , and it sound like that project be vital for create more social home in his constituency of Sheffield South East . I be really sorry to hear that he have be pass from pillar to post by different Departments , and this be exactly the sort of issue to raise in business question . I expect member to receive timely and helpful response from Ministers , and I will raise the issue with the relevant Departments as soon as I leave the Chamber . the labour manifesto contain a pledge to recognise Palestine . subsequently , the Prime Minister have say that the Palestinians have an " undeniable right " to recognition , but something be hold he back . could we please have a debate in Government time to examine the fact that all our arab ally be say that recognition be now a prerequisite for peace in the middle east , so that the House can vote to support the Prime Minister in take this very significant step ? we absolutely do support recognise Palestine as a state , which be an indelible right of the palestinian people . it be absolutely critical that we achieve a long - term , two - state solution in the middle east that recognise both Israel ' s right to exist as a safe and secure country , and the palestinian people ' s right to have a palestinian state that be also safe , secure and free . that be what we be work towards internationally and with our ally across the world , and it be something that I know the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister spend a lot of their time deal with . we have Foreign Office question come up next week , and I know that the Foreign Secretary be keen to come to this House as often as possible to update member on what be happen in the middle east . I be sure these issue will be debate far . this week be Flood Action Week . in Calder Valley , where we have have several major flood in the last 15 year , my constituent be all too aware of flooding and its impact ; indeed , we have spend much of the last few day under a flood alert . although Yorkshire Water have be active in support anti - flooding measure , could we have a debate in Government time on how regulation could be use to ensure that flood prevention be part of the statutory role of water company ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . the issue of flood resilience and flood preparedness get raise in this session frequently , and I anticipate that as we get towards the winter month , when flooding become more frequent , they will be raise more often . we have launch our flood resilience taskforce to turbocharge the delivery and co - ordination of flood defence , but this issue would make a very good topic for a Back - Bench business debate or another debate . no one in this House be among those who go to the South Pacific in the 1950 and ' 60 to witness the first nuclear test , but some of we have meet the old man who do so as young man , unknowing of the danger they face . after a very long campaign , the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson agree that those man should be grant service medal , and the current Secretary of State for Defence have agree that the eligibility criterion should be widen because many of the people who go have not get their medal . give that the Prime Minister , the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) — with whom I have work — my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) and other be desperate to ensure that the man get what they deserve , will the Leader of the House arrange an urgent statement ? we owe these veteran , many of whom be die , that honour , a duty and our thank . I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this important matter . I have follow the issue of nuclear test veteran closely , and I know that it have be raise in this House many time . a recent documentary shine a light on these issue as well . I will certainly raise this matter with the Ministry of Defence , and we have defence question come up soon . I will ask the MOD to come to the House and give we an update . last week I have the great privilege of visit High Spen primary school and Ryton junior school in my constituency , which have be work with local artist on project support by Historic England . High Spen school have launch a mural celebrate local woman hero in its former category d village , while Ryton have create an online game commemorate the lost village of Addison , another category d village . can we have a debate in Government time to discuss the importance of our young people learn about their local history and the creative art ? that sound like a great project by school in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I be sure they will be pleased that she have raise it in the Commons this morning . engage young people in the cultural , industrial and other aspect of the history of their local area be really important . she might want to raise that at Education question , which be come up soon . nearly half a million british pensioner across the globe have the level of their pension freeze when they leave the country . that include 99 - year - old Anne Puckeridge , a decorate world war two veteran who do not leave this country for Canada until she be 76 . despite have pay a lifetime of national insurance contribution , she have see her pension diminish every year . ironically , this mostly affect pensioner who have go to Commonwealth country , because people who go to the European Union or the United States , for example , get the uplift each year . can we have a statement from the Pensions Minister on what the Government intend to do about this ? will the Leader of the House arrange a meeting with the Government for I and other who will be meet Anne when she come to this country in December to celebrate her 100th birthday ? I congratulate Anne on her forthcoming 100th birthday , and I thank the hon . Lady for raise this matter . I be happy to try to facilitate a meeting for she with the relevant Minister . she will know that the policy on the uprating of UK state pension pay overseas be of long standing . a key plank of it be that uprating be a reciprocal arrangement . however , I will definitely arrange a meeting for she , if that be helpful . will the Leader of the House make time for the House to debate , celebrate and accelerate the roll out of life - save defibrillator across the UK ? as part of that debate , we could discuss the grow campaign to remove vat from defibrillator so that the money raise by voluntary organisation in many of our constituency might go a little far . finally , will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Mary Montague , the indefatigable provost of East Renfrewshire who have turn personal tragedy into a determination that defibrillator should be available to everyone who need they in their time of crisis ? my hon . friend describe a very good local campaign , lead by his provost and other , to get defibrillator into local community . all of we can relate to the importance of have defibrillator available in our community . he will know that vat relief apply to defibrillator purchase by local authority , the NHS and certain charity . I will ensure that the relevant Minister have hear his call for that vat relief to be extend . early this week , I meet the representative of a business that be propose a carbon capture project in my constituency . they stress the importance of have a decision from the Secretary of State by the end of this year . will the Leader of the House arrange for the Secretary of State to come to the House with a statement on the next stage of these project ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the Secretary of State recently update the House on the huge investment the Government be put into this new carbon capture technology , and on where some of that investment will be go . I know the Secretary of State have be expedite decision to ensure that business such as the one that the hon . Gentleman describe can benefit from that announcement . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what the hon . Gentleman say and return to this House when he have a further update . Pie Factory Music in Ramsgate , in my constituency , serve more than 1 , 000 young people across east Kent , many of whom be in care or be young asylum seeker , refugee or struggle with ill health . unfortunately , Conservative - run Kent county council have slash support for Pie Factory Music and now want to sell the building , prevent access to a safe , dedicated space for these young people . I be aware that our Labour Government be commit to a new network of youth hub . in that light , will my right hon . friend provide Government time for a debate on the importance of youth service , particularly in build resilience , tackle mental health issue and enable young people to thrive ? my hon . friend be a great advocate for these issue in Ramsgate and East Thanet and have raise they with I before . I be sorry to hear about the fate of Pie Factory and its work . we understand the difficulty that local authority and other be under , but we be launch a new Young Futures programme , which I hope will support facility like Pie Factory ' s in future . I will certainly consider my hon . friend ' s request for a debate on youth service . this week be Flood Action Week , an important opportunity to raise awareness of this crucial issue . this week , sadly , North Herefordshire have be subject to flooding : road be closed , school be closed and soil be wash off the field into the road and river . unfortunately , climate change be make these event more frequent and more extreme . do the Leader of the House agree that farmer be crucial partner in tackle flood through natural flood management ? will she make time for a debate in Government time on the crucial issue of flood prevention and action ? the hon . Lady raise an important matter that have already be raise today . she and other colleague be make a very good case for a debate on flood resilience and flood action . she be right to say that climate change be have a profound effect on those issue , which be why the Government be commit to become a clean energy superpower by 2030 . I be sorry to hear about what be happen in her constituency ; I have already take note of the early call for a debate . each year , 300 , 000 people come to Cleethorpes for our Armed Forces Day . can the Leader of the House advise I how I can well communicate to the Ministry of Defence how much we would appreciate it if National Armed Forces Day in 2026 could be hold in Cleethorpes ? it will be the 10 - year anniversary of the last time it be hold there ; perhaps we could extend Armed Forces Day to start at the wonderful but somewhat overlook north prom . I do not know that so many people come to Cleethorpes for Armed Forces Day — it sound like a real occasion . I will certainly make sure that the Ministry of Defence hear my hon . friend ' s plea . cleethorpe sound like a very good place for National Armed Forces Day in 2026 . the Leader of the House may be aware that the Deputy Prime Minister have call in a planning application for the Marlow film studio , which have already be reject by thousand of local resident , planning officer and the council . this be the wrong development in the wrong place , so will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on how the view of local people on planning can be retain before the Labour party concrete over the entire green belt ? I be sorry , but I disagree with the hon . Lady ' s characterisation . this Government be unashamedly pro - house building and pro - cut the red tape that stand in the way of business and business investment in our creative industry , our technology and our transport , but we be absolutely on the side of local people as well , which be why our planning reform put local voice and local plan at their centre . we have have debate on the issue , and I be sure that we will have many more in the come week . be the Leader of the House , like I , very concerned about the trend of bank closure on our local high street , include in my constituency ? recently , resident and local business receive the disappointing news that Lloyds bank be leave Shirley High Street ; I be campaign to save the branch . do the Leader of the House agree that face - to - face banking be a vital part of our thrive high street ? it be essential for those with specific disability , for those who be digitally exclude , and particularly for the elderly . do she welcome the Government ' s plan for banking hub ? will she allow time to debate banking on our high street ? that important issue be raise very frequently . access to cash and financial service for our local community have be on the decline and be a real matter of concern . that be why we have commit to accelerate the roll - out of at least 350 banking hub , so that people have access to cash and wide banking service . More than 80 be already open , and we expect another 100 to follow . I shall certainly arrange for the House to be update on any progress in that area . rise — order . if we can keep question short , I will do my good to get everybody in . blue - light escort decision be rightly take on an operationally independent basis by the police . yet after the Home Secretary , the Attorney General and the Mayor of London meet the police to discuss the escort for Taylor Swift , she be grant one . a few day later , the Prime Minister and his whole family meet Taylor Swift and her manager back stage . can we have a debate on the new Government ' s approach to breach of the ministerial code ? I be sorry , but I totally reject the hon . Lady ' s characterisation of what have happen here . as she rightly point out , these issue be take operationally by the police , which be absolutely right . as I say early , it be estimate that the Taylor Swift concert have bring £ 1 billion into the UK economy . we should be attract these kind of event and enable they to happen . she will know that Taylor Swift be subject to a very serious threat to her safety only a few day before come to the UK . I should not really have to remind the hon . Lady of this , but she will also be aware that Taylor Swift take a very close interest in what happen to those young girl in Southport who be at a Taylor Swift event when they be tragically murder . the Prime Minister rightly want to thank she for all that she have do to support the family . rise — order . long response from the Leader of the House will mean that few colleague will be able to get in . I have receive a great deal of correspondence regard the assist die Bill . I welcome the fact that Back Benchers will have a free vote . however , an issue as complex as this require detailed scrutiny . as it stand , I be worried that colleague will not have enough time to properly debate the Bill . will the Leader of the House relay the concern share by many across the House that the assisted die Bill should receive Government time over several day , so that we can do it justice ? this issue get raise a lot . my hon . friend be absolutely right . this be a matter of conscience . the Government ' s position be neutral , so member have a free vote on the issue , and that be absolutely as it should be . the Bill will be give its second reading on Friday 29 November . as a Member who be in this place when these issue be last discuss many year ago , I can say that I think these moment provide a real opportunity for member to think about the debate and to discuss these issue in a respectful and congenial manner and show Parliament at its very good . the Leader of the House will be familiar with the UK Health Security Agency ' s significant presence at Porton Down in my constituency , adjacent to the site of the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory . can we have a statement from the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on the new Government ' s future plan for Porton down ? after the vaccine roll - out and all the work that be do there , thing have change since previous announcement be make . many of my constituent be concerned and need clarity on this matter . I be apply for an Adjournment debate , but I would welcome a statement as well because the matter be urgent . I shall certainly make sure that the right hon . member ' s question be hear by the Secretary of State . I do understand why he want some clarity on the matter . I hope that he be successful in secure an Adjournment debate where he will get a ministerial response , but I be happy to consider other way for he to get answer . last week , I have the opportunity to visit TMT First , a business in Newcastle - under - Lyme . it deliver technology lifecycle service for the circular economy , specialise in the repair , refurbishment and recycling of mobile technology , and process more than 250 , 000 device every year . but with the mountain of electrical waste estimate to grow to 74 million tonne a year by 2030 , we need to act and act fast . I invite the Leader of the House to visit TMT First in Newcastle - under - Lyme , as it be on her way home . more importantly , can we have a debate on how we can support our business to do more recycling and repair of thing , rather than simply replace they ? our economy and environment need that . I may well get off the train on my way home at some stage and visit my hon . friend ' s constituency . I know that support and enhance the circular economy be a key priority for the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . departmental question be next month , but I will make sure my hon . friend get a good reply . can government time be give for a debate on how to strengthen the Environment Agency ' s power to ensure that operator of energy - from - waste facility be force to address exceedance and reduce overall emission , and to look at the possibility of mandate carbon capture , usage and storage technology to mitigate the emission produce from burn waste ? I point to the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as regard my role as a councillor in Sutton , as this challenge come around often when we be look to hold the operator to account . the hon . Gentleman raise an important issue , which I know have have some attention recently . I have one of those waste facility in my constituency , so I be well aware of the impact on and some of the challenge for the local community . I will certainly make sure that the Secretary of State have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s question , but he may want to raise it in DEFRA question on 14 November . the combination of the cost of live crisis and the mental health crisis have lead to a worrying increase in ketamine usage in my constituency . some young people be now face a lifetime with an urostomy bag due to ketamine bladder syndrome . good work be be do by local charity such as Horizon , but those service deserve more support . can the Leader of the House make time for a debate on how the Government can support long - term harm reduction in Blackpool South ? as ever , my hon . friend raise an issue that be important to his constituency . drug misuse and the rise in the use of ketamine and other substance be an issue of real importance , and it cost society greatly . I will make sure that the Home Secretary have hear his call today — departmental question be next week , if he want to raise the matter then . we have have many important debate and statement about the Post Office Horizon scandal , but can the Leader of the House bring forward a debate in Government time about the future of the Post Office ? in my constituency , we be struggle to recruit new postmaster to take over post office in community such as Eastriggs and Langholm , and in West Linton , where we currently have a post office , there do not seem to be any available support for it to continue . this matter get raise in business question and elsewhere quite often because we be see too many closure and too many post office struggle . I think the subject would make a popular application for a Backbench Business debate , and I encourage he to take that forward . last week , Buckinghamshire council confirm the demolition of the Gala Bingo hall , a former live music venue and cinema on Aylesbury High Street . our town have a proud musical and cultural history and many resident be concerned that not enough effort be make to preserve this historic site . will the Leader of the House allow time to debate the importance of recognise and preserve our historical and cultural asset as we regenerate our town centre ? music venue , cultural asset and leisure service be vital to our town centre regeneration , and our high street accelerator programme will be look at grassroots venue . I encourage my hon . friend to raise these issue in Housing , Communities and Local Government question in a couple of week . I be contact this week by a resident of Sidmouth whose parent be intern in a japanese camp during world war two . she write to I about her father ' s affidavit , which be hold by the Imperial War Museum , say , " they do not make good reading , but bear great similarity to what be happen in Gaza . " will the Government make a statement about their stance on whether Israel ' s far - right Ministers Smotrich and Ben - Givr should be subject to UK Government sanction ? also , will they offer support to the International Criminal Court as it seek arrest warrant for the like of Netanyahu and Hamas Leader Yahya Sinwar ? the comment make by the israeli Ministers , as the Prime Minister say yesterday , be " abhorrent " ; disgraceful and unacceptable language be use . we be work closely with our ally internationally to bring an end to the horror we be see in Israel and Gaza , which be why we need to make sure that everybody operate within international law . the Government be commit to that and to bring about an immediate ceasefire so we can work towards a long - term solution . a constituent in Hethersett sadly lose her 17 - week - old puppy Mini to the deadly parvovirus . this devastating disease take animal ' live very quickly , but can be hold at bay by vaccination . may we have a debate in Government time on the importance of people vaccinate their pet dog , and on the responsibility of good owner ? my hon . friend raise an important issue . I be sure that his question will help bring attention to the importance of people get their dog vaccinate ; I be unaware of the virus . I be sure that it would make a good topic for an Adjournment debate , and he have rightly raise it on the Floor of the House . Caf é s be so important to rural community in Hinckley and Bosworth and North West Leicestershire . I run a favourite caf é competition , and a thousand constituent nominate caf é s . in joint third place be JAFFLES @ no3 and what the Fork ; in second place be Liberteas ; and the winner be Epicurean Lounge . will the Leader of the House congratulate that caf é , and caf é owner up and down this country , because they be so important in our society ? I think the hon . Gentleman say that one of the winner be what the Fork . what a fork good idea his competition be . I congratulate the winner , and all his constituent on take part . I look forward to a bacon butty , a cup of tea , and maybe a piece of cake in Hinckley and Bosworth at some point in the future . I commend the work of five volunteer in my community who run Lichfield Community Media CIC . by operate a news website , they have prevent our area from become a news desert . unfortunately , their post be be block because algorithm on social medium site highlight they as spam . do the Leader of the House agree that the issue of how independent publisher can access their audience through social medium would be a good topic for a debate ? my hon . friend raise a really important matter , not just for independent publisher but for national news publisher , who be subject to the whim of tech giant when it come to algorithm , and find important journalistic work and news . I think the topic would make for a very well attend debate . this week , we witness the unedifye spectacle of Scottish Labour mps labour under the misapprehension that if they put forward an idea that be to the benefit of Scotland , Ministers in the United Kingdom would take it forward . I be talk about the scottish immigration visa system . can we have a debate in Government time that lay bare the fact that when Scotland ' s ambition be at odd , or even at variance , with those of England , Westminster will put Scotland aside — not just sometimes or most of the time , but every time ? I be sorry to say this , but the last time I look , labour mps in Scotland win many seat in the recent election , and scottish nationalist mp lose many . Labour Members who represent scottish seat in this House have do a fantastic job in stand up for Scotland , reset the relationship , and ensure that the people of Scotland benefit from this new Labour Government . this week ' s public inquiry on the propose toll increase for the Tamar crossing highlight clear local opposition . this gateway to South East Cornwall be a vital link between Cornwall and Devon , and the crossing be among the only one not manage by National Highways . the toll place a burden on my constituent , who have no alternative to pay in order to access healthcare service over the river . will the Leader of the House make Government time available for a debate on fair and affordable transport in area such as mine ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , which I know will be important to her constituent in South East Cornwall . I understand that there will be a final decision by the Transport Secretary once the inspector produce their report . I will of course ensure that the Transport Secretary come to this House to tell my hon . friend about that decision . just two month ago , Paul Reeves , a well respected farmer and agricultural business owner in my constituency , take his own life . sadly , his story be all too common , with the many challenge that the industry often face contribute to poor mental health . farming family like Paul ' s be the bedrock of our country . without they , we simply could not function , and when they be struggle we must support they . in Paul ' s memory , may we have a debate on improve mental health in our farming and agricultural community ? I be really sorry to hear about Paul Reeves , and I send the condolence of the whole House to his family and friend . the hon . Lady raise the subject of the mental health of our farming community , and many member across the House will relate to what she say . that community do an amazing job to keep this country feed and well care for , and to support nature , among many other thing . that issue would make a good topic for a debate , which would be a popular one . two of my constituent , Hayley and Craig Vaughan , sadly lose their son Archie to brain cancer three year ago . on one of his final holiday , they take he to one of his favourite place : a caravan by the seaside . archie ' s parent have channel their grief by set up a charity call Archie ' s Caravan , which offer free holiday to child in Archie ' s position and their family . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Archie , to his incredible parent , and to the amazing work that their charity do , and will she make space in Government time for a debate on the care receive by child with cancer after their diagnosis ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to Archie , his parent and the fantastic work of that charity . the Government be commit to support child and young people with cancer . we establish a child and young people taskforce early this year . I be sure that the Secretary of State will come to the House to update we on that . two day ago , the conservative administration at Hertfordshire county council filibuster during a debate , prevent a liberal Democrat motion on improve special educational need and disability service in Hertfordshire from be debate at all . may we have a debate in Government time about the importance of scrutiny and constructive opposition at all level of government , especially on the issue of SEND ? in Hertfordshire , SEND service be fail child . first and foremost , my job as Leader of the House of Commons be to ensure that issue be scrutinise and debate in this House , and that we do not filibuster and disrespect people ' s view , or topic that they want to raise . I hope that party across local government respect that , too . the important matter of SEND , which the hon . Lady mention , be raise here a lot , so I be sure that if she apply for a debate , it would be well attend . from Stotfold to Shefford in my constituency , homeowner on new estate have be trap by the growth of the leasehold scandal . they be leave have to deal with unaccountable and underperform management company , and often pay twice for service that people normally receive through pay council tax . after my vociferous lobbying of the then shadow Housing Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , I be happy to see in Labour ' s manifesto a commitment to address leasehold . may we have a debate on how we can work together across the House to take forward action on that important issue ? as the MP for Manchester Central , I know only too well about the absolutely appalling circumstance that many leaseholder find themselves in , with rise cost from manage agent and insurance , and other issue . that be why I be absolutely delighted to ensure that leasehold reform be in the King ' s Speech . we will get a draft Bill soon , and the Government be quickly implement the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . an NHS foundation trust be advertise for psychologist to work with child with gender dysphoria . it say that applicant must practise in a gender - affirm manner . that run completely contrary to what the Cass review say . may we have a statement from the Health Secretary on the implementation of the Cass review in the NHS ? I will ask the Secretary of State to come to the House with an update on the Cass review , but I think it important when discuss these matter that we do not raise issue that may not be quite as they seem . we must handle these issue carefully , as some young people and adult have real challenge with gender dysphoria that can cause they a great deal of mental upset . I will look into the matter that the hon . Gentleman raise and ask the Secretary of State to come to the House . I welcome the Government ' s move this week to ensure that veteran , include those in my constituency , who be turn away when try to use their veteran ' s ID to vote in the recent general election will be able to use that form of ID next year . it be not just veteran we need to support , but current servicemen and woman and their family . may we have some Government time to talk about how we can support those brave man and woman ? I , too , be delighted that this Government take quick action to deliver their manifesto commitment to ensure that veteran ' card could be use as voter ID , and I be pleased to hear of my hon . friend ' s reaction to that . as he will be aware , this Government be commit to an armed force commissioner Bill . I can tell he today that that Bill be fairly imminent , and I be sure that we can debate some of these issue as we approach Remembrance Sunday , too . tsere Tso , a tibetan human right defender and tour guide , have repeatedly face arbitrary detention and harassment by chinese authority for advocate for the right of Tibetans to freedom of movement and equal treatment under chinese law . her most recent detention occur in June 2024 , follow her public criticism of local authority ’ discriminatory practice against tibetan monk . tsering have be subject to administrative detention on multiple occasion , have raise concern about racial discrimination and the unlawful detention of Tibetans — two monk be arrest while on a pilgrimage . what representation can his Majesty ' s Government make to the chinese authority on the detention and repeat harassment of Tsering Tso ? this Government stand firm on human right , include China ' s repression of the people of Tibet . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the Foreign Secretary be to make a diplomatic visit to China ; I know that he will raise these matter in his conversation . I will ensure that he come to this House to give an update on how that visit go . to show we how it be do in one or two sentence , I call Steve Race . last night , the University of Exeter , the Met Office and Peers for the Planet launch the late edition of " the Parliamentarians ' guide to Climate Change " , which be a vital resource for we all . will the Leader of the House welcome that report , as I do , and will she commend it to member of this House and the other House ? I absolutely welcome that report , and of course I commend it to member of both Houses . the new rule on wine duty be implement in February 2025 will be overly complicated and incredibly burdensome , especially for small , independent wine importer such as Canned Wine in Bath . the chief executive officer of that local business tell I that the incremental duty rate will put incredible strain on their business . can we have a debate in Government time on this important issue ? I know that the issue of wine duty be really important in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , and I be sure that we will have ample time to debate wine and other alcohol duty in the many day of debate that we will have on the Budget , which be come up soon . recently in my constituency , I hold a meeting with resident of Water Orton to hear how ongoing High Speed 2 work be affect they . my resident be suffer from mental and physical health issue because of the air and noise pollution cause by those work . may we have a debate in Government time on those effect , and how we can improve they ? the ongoing mishandling and mismanagement of the hs2 project have be a bit of an embarrassment for this country , I be afraid . I be sure the Secretary of State for Transport will update the House on these matter soon , and of course , the HS2 hybrid Bill be proceed through Parliament as we speak . Rossington Main Ladies football club create a slice of history last weekend by qualify for the first round proper of the Adobe woman ' s FA cup . will the Minister join I in congratulate captain Steph Prescott and the team , and wish they good luck against Accrington Stanley — who be they ? — in the first round in November ? no time for joke ! I congratulate Rossington Main Ladies football club and their captain Steph , and wish they great luck against Accrington Stanley , who we all remember fondly from advert . my inbox be full to the brim with complaint about Yorkshire Water ' s lack of investment , on issue from fail pumping station to polluted river . can the Leader of the House advise member on when we can highlight the chronic under - investment in our nation ' s water supply ? it be a priority for this Government to take action against the water boss , get the investment that we need and ensure that the cost be not all pass on to customer . my hon . friend make an important case . dare not Valley hospital in my constituency need significant expansion . quarter 1 figure indicate that more than 32 , 000 people be wait for treatment , and the hospital can not cope with the new home be build in the area . will my right hon . friend schedule a debate about the need to expand hospital provision in Dartford and across the country ? waiting list be at a record high , which be why the Government deal immediately with the industrial action to get our doctor back on the frontline . we be committed to more GP appointment in my hon . friend ' s constituency and elsewhere . the Government ' s target be 40 , 000 more appointment a week , which we will deliver . many of my constituent be frustrate by rip - off car parking company such as Hozah , which issue threaten letter and fine to people who have , in many case , follow or barely breach the rule . may we have a debate in Government time on how we clamp down on those parking pirate to ensure that our town centre can thrive and our retailer can grow ? the Government will set out in due course our plan for the regulation of the private parking industry , which cause many problem , as my hon . friend describe . I will ensure that the relevant Minister come to the House to update hon . member at that time . I call Jim Dickson — [ interruption . ] no , I call Andy MacNae . I be go so fast that I be lose my place . I will try to be equally fast , Mr Speaker . my constituent face dangerous speeding on the road past their home and school every single day . when they raise deep concern with the police or the council , they be too often tell that not enough people have be kill or seriously injure . they rightly feel that that make no sense . they know the risk — they see the close call every day — so why should they wait for a neighbour to be kill before action be take ? will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on the subject of prevention in road safety , use international good practice and new technology ? my hon . friend be a great champion for Rossendale and Darwen , and for road safety issue in his constituency . we will soon deliver an update strategic framework for road safety — the first in over a decade — and I will ensure that a Transport Minister come to the House to update hon . member . the Leader of the House refer early to the Modernisation Committee . can she update we on its work on the key issue of call list , which work well in this place during covid and work well in the other place every day , and on her wide effort to make this place a more family - friendly Parliament ? the issue of call list and the desire for a more family - friendly Parliament have be raise by many hon . member , especially those who be newly elect , and I hope that a wealth of people will input to the call for view that the Modernisation Committee open today . I call Alex Ballinger — your patience have be note . I recently meet headteacher across my constituency to talk about the challenge they be face after 14 year of conservative mismanagement of the education sector . they raise several issue , but in the interest of time I will mention only curriculum reform , which they be particularly interested in . I ask the Leader of the House to schedule a debate in Government time on curriculum reform , so that we can consider the view of teacher in my constituency . last but certainly not least , my hon . friend raise what I know be a big issue in Halesowen ' s school . the Government be commit to curriculum reform . one of the first act of the Secretary of State for Education be to establish an independent review of curriculum and assessment , lead by Professor Becky Francis CBE . I know that the Secretary of State will be regularly update the House on that . it be fantastic to get everybody in . I will focus more on name . Criminal Justice System : capacity with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on capacity in the criminal justice system . when this Government come to power , we inherit prison on the brink of disaster , moment from total collapse . have that happen , the consequence would have be apocalyptic : court would have be force to cancel all trial , the police would have be bar from make arrest , and we would have face the total breakdown of law and order . the last Government know what have to be do . my predecessor , the former Lord Chancellor , beg his Prime Minister to act , but rather than have the bravery to do so , the now Leader of the opposition choose to call an election instead . as a result , it fall to this Government to take the necessary but difficult action . while they say that to govern be to choose , my predecessor leave I with no choice at all . on 18 July , just two week into the job , I announce to this House that we have be force to bring forward the release date of some prisoner serve standard determinate sentence from 50 % of time serve in prison to 40 % , serve the rest on their sentence on licence in the community . make no mistake : the action we take prevent the immediate collapse of law and order in our country , but with our prison population still rise fast , there be more that we must do to address the capacity challenge our prison face , and our task now be to ensure that a crisis like the one we inherit can never happen again . today , I can set out a measure that will begin to address a specific and acute cause of our prison capacity crisis : the remand population . as this House will know , prisoner on remand be in our jail but have not yet be try or sentence . because of the historical backlog in our Crown court — another element of the woeful inheritance my predecessor hand to I — the remand population in prison have soar . today , it stand at a record 17 , 000 , which be nearly one in every five prisoner . as some member will know , remand prisoner be an especially acute problem as they be place in so - call reception or category b prison . until they be try and sentence , they can not be move elsewhere in the estate . it be in our reception prison that we face the most acute capacity pressure in the country . unless we address our remand population , we could still see a collapse of the system , not because of a lack of cell , but because we do not have those cell in the place we need they . it be therefore crucial that we bear down on the remand population . magistrate court have sentence power for only up to six month ' imprisonment for a single triable either - way offence , and only the Crown court can hand down sentence beyond that . between May 2022 and March 2023 , the previous Government choose to extend magistrate court sentencing power to 12 month . this enable magistrate court to retain more sentencing hearing and mean that they be hear more quickly . it also free up capacity in the Crown court to hear more complex case . however , magistrate ' sentence power be then reduce back to six month when , have fail to address the capacity crisis in our prison , the pressure on prison place become too great . this Government have now act to relieve that pressure , so I can announce that we will extend magistrate ' sentence power back to 12 month ' imprisonment . on 28 October , I will lay a statutory instrument to that effect , which will come into force on 18 November this year . this change do not increase the maximum sentence for specific offence , and nor do it change the length of sentence that a defendant will serve . instead , it expand which court can hand down sentence of six to 12 month ' imprisonment for a single triable either - way offence . it will enable the system to make more use of magistrate , who be an integral part of our court system , deliver justice swiftly across the country . this measure will also allow we to begin to address the remand problem in our prison , but it will do more than that . this Government inherit a record Crown court backlog . wait for trial have grow so long that some case be not hear for year . the impact on victim of crime be profound . for some , justice delay be , as the old saying go , justice deny , as victim choose to withdraw from the justice process altogether rather than face the pain of a protract legal battle . by extend magistrate ' power , we will be able to make progress on address the Crown court backlog , and we will free the Crown court to take on more of the case that only it can hear . this measure be expect to free up an equivalent of 2 , 000 sitting day within the Crown court each year , which will add capacity on top of the additional 500 sit day that this government fund on take office . this measure will , in total , see a slight increase in the overall prison population , but by bear down on the remand population in our reception prison , we will create capacity where we need it most . this measure allow we to manage our prison population smartly , and it mean we can both address our prison crisis and tackle the court backlog . when this Government come to power , we inherit a justice system in crisis . we take immediate action to avert a total breakdown of law and order . we be now begin the work of ensure that this country never face this crisis again . there will be more that we must do . in the come week , I will return to the House and set out our long - term plan for the justice system , but these new power for magistrate mark an important step . they help we alleviate the capacity pressure cause by the historical remand population that we inherit , and begin to address the record Crown court backlog that my predecessor hand to I . in so doing , for victim across the country they will make justice swifter , and ensure that more criminal receive the punishment that they deserve . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the Lord Chancellor and her civil servant for their typical courtesy in give I early sight of her statement . I be also grateful to magistrate , to whom I pay tribute . in many way , they be the backbone of our justice system , and like jury they root our justice system in our local community . their service be hugely appreciate , as be the work of the Magistrates ' Association , and I recognise their skill and dedication . the Lord Chancellor highlight the backlog as context . as she will know , in 2010 the backlog that we inherit in the Crown court be 48 , 000 . it be reduce to 40 , 000 by 2019 , but we recognise that it be a lot high now . the change ? a pandemic . she rightly refer to significant increase in the remand population . during the pandemic , support by the then Opposition , we opt not to mass - release prisoner , as other country do , and not to cancel jury trial . that of course lead to increase in the remand population , compound by the effect of the Bar strike . the vast bulk of the backlog be in the Crown court , as the Lord Chancellor will know , and it be right to recognise the interrelationship between magistrate court and Crown court . I believe that the concordat on sitting day have not be formally sign by the former Lord Chancellor at the time of the election , and I therefore see with concern that , in stark contrast to previous Lord Chancellors who increase sitting day , it appear we will see a reduction of 2 , 700 sit day compare with last year . I would be grateful for the Lord Chancellor ' s reflection on that . in 2019 there be 85 , 000 sitting day , and 107 , 700 last year . this year the cap appear to be at 105 , 000 . that appear to be the Government ' s choice , but I would welcome clarity from the Lord Chancellor on that . the change that the Lord Chancellor have set out be characterise by the chair of the Criminal Bar Association , Mary Prior KC , in the Guardian : " this be a knee - jerk reaction , do without consult — once again — the criminal barrister or solicitor who deal every day with these case " . there be therefore a number of question about that and the broad criminal justice system , give the scope of the right hon . Lady ' s statement , which I hope she will be able to answer . have she conduct a complete impact assessment for the change , and will she publish that and all the modelling on it prior to the statutory instrument be lay ? how many people be currently on remand , and will she share with the House the late , most up - to - date figure ? report suggest that this measure will in the short term potentially increase pressure on prison place , so will she say by what amount her modelling suggest that will be ? what prior consultation do she or her Department undertake with the Criminal Bar Association , the Bar Council and the Law Society before make this decision ? what assessment have she make of the impact of the decision announce today on the backlog and on the number of short custodial sentence pass by the court ? give that the right hon . Lady explicitly refer to her prisoner early release scheme , I hope she will be able to answer all those question , but there be also one important question that I hope she will answer today by way of reassurance : be any of the 37 prisoner release in error last month still roam free , or have they all be safely return to prison ? I would be grateful for clarification on that , because it be important . we will find out in under two week whether , in pre - Budget spending discussion with the Chancellor , the right hon . Lady have successfully fight for investment and in the interest of justice and victim of crime , or whether she have sell out the victim and the system , and concede cut to the Treasury . if she have succeed in secure additional investment , she will have my gratitude and support . if she have not , we will rightly hold she to account . it be almost as if the shadow Lord Chancellor be not , in fact , a Minister in the Ministry of Justice just a few short month ago . let I remind he of a few salient fact . first , on Crown court sitting day , I will not accept any suggestion or allegation from he that this Government have cut sit day or trial in the Crown court . that be entirely untrue . as he know , or ought to know , perfectly well — I be sure he can check with the former Lord Chancellor — on 28 June , the last Government and the last Lord Chancellor determine how many day the judge could sit this year . since then , this Government have increase the number of sit day by 500 . as there be clearly some confusion here , it be important that I set the record straight . every year , the Government and the judiciary agree a number of sit day , and an overall budget to fund those sit day , in what be know as the concordat process . in June , the judiciary reach an agreement with the former Lord Chancellor to sit 106 , 000 day in the Crown court , with a total budget of £ 275 million . it have become clear that there have be over - list against that budget , with more trial schedule than the funding allow for . as a result , some case have have to be delist , although far few than some recent reporting have suggest — it be claim that around 5 , 000 sitting day be be cancel , and I know that the shadow Lord Chancellor have some other number in his remark . in fact , as I understand it , the number be more like 1 , 600 sit day . although misleading report have abound , one thing be clear : the concordat process have not work as it should . I can assure the House that the first concordat process on my watch will be very different , and such confusion will not occur again . the shadow Lord Chancellor ask a number of question relate to the impact assessment for the change announce today . I will publish all the usual impact assessment when the statutory instrument be publish . as I say in my opening remark , we expect an initial impact on prison place , but over time we expect that to come down . we have a little more space in prison because of the action we have take to stabilise the pressure on prison place . it be a sensible measure to then take the opportunity to bear down on the Crown court backlog by provide the extra 2 , 000 sitting day that this change will allow , while also bear down far on our remand population . as the shadow Lord Chancellor will know , the exact number be difficult to model because listing be a matter for the judiciary . some of those on remand will ultimately be find not guilty and some will be find guilty and sentence , and the whole range of sentencing measure be available to the independent judiciary . but we expect to make some progress on the remand population and , crucially , to be able to move people from the reception estate into the rest of the prison estate , thereby help we to make sure we have the prison place where we need they . I can also confirm that all of the 37 people release in error because of be incorrectly sentence be now back in custody . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . as someone who spend a decade shadow and scrutinise the previous Government ' s justice policy , I sympathise with the Lord Chancellor over the chaos she have inherit , but the propose change to magistrate ' sentence power may have mixed result . they should ease the backlog in the Crown court , but they may put additional pressure on our overcrowded prison . my concern be that we do not have robust datum on the Crown court backlog or on the effect of vary sentencing . the Government be about to embark on a quick but thorough review of sentencing . will they use that opportunity to get the policy and the figure line up ? I think this be my first chance in the House to welcome my hon . friend to his new position as Chair of the Justice Committee . let I deal with Crown court datum first . in fairness to the previous Government , they discover this error prior to the conclusion of their term in office . when I come in , I be make aware of the issue with Crown court datum . I order further investigation and examination of the issue . it be clear that a number of problem with the datum — a number of error and other issue — need to be resolve . we will make sure that it be publish when we can be sure that it be accurate and that all those error have be finally resolve . clearly , the situation be unacceptable . I be in discussion with the Lady Chief Justice about the need for a full external audit of Crown court datum , because I think we can all agree that that datum must be accurate . we clearly must do more to restore confidence in the reporting process , and I will update the House far in due course . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . so many of my constituent be appal by the state in which the Conservatives have leave our justice system : huge court backlog , a woefully big remand population , overcrowded prison and so many victim and survivor without justice . I therefore welcome her determination to arrest this problem and this decline , and especially the report of her correspondence with the Prime Minister over a fully fund Ministry of Justice . however , I want to address some of the Liberal Democrats ’ key concern about some of the proposal that she have set out . first , the Secretary of State recognise that there may be additional issue with prison capacity in the short term . with the system burst at the seam and with we , a matter of week ago , just 100 man away from the prison be completely full , how will she prevent our prison from collapse as a result of these measure ? secondly , on prison effectiveness , put too many egg in the prison basket will ultimately fail to keep our community safe . we know that 75 % of ex - offender go on to reoffend within nine year of be release . from the work I do before I arrive in this place on get kid out of crime and out of gang , I know that rehabilitation , do holistically , be a critical way of reduce reoffende and victimhood . how will the Secretary of State double down on rehabilitation and through - the - gate mentoring programme to reduce offending ? thirdly , these measure will put more pressure on magistrate court , at a time when many , such as my own in Eastbourne , have close . that risk force victim of crime currently hear in those court to wait even long for justice . how will the Secretary of State address that risk ? finally , one of the bad Justice Secretaries in recent memory , Dominic Raab , try a similar policy in 2022 , with magistrate increase the number of people be send to prison on short sentence . the scheme be drop after a year , and short - sentence reoffending rate be at 57 % , which be a deplorable number . how will the Secretary of State avoid these measure backfire in a similar way ? just for reference , your question should be two minute , no long . I thank the hon . member for his question . I be very aware of the number of place in our prison estate , and we have a particularly difficult moment before the last bank holiday , in August , when we come down to few than 100 . however , as a result of the measure we have take on SDS40 , there be now some space and some capacity in our prison system . it be important that we use this opportunity also to bear down on the remand population and to deal with the Crown court backlog . this be a delicate balance exercise , and it be one that I will personally be keep a close eye on and keep under review . however , I think that the measure we have announce be ultimately the right one , because it help we with our prison capacity challenge . as a result , we will have the prison place where we need they — in the reception prison — and we can start move people out to other part of the estate , which be not possible until case be hear . I be confident that we have the capacity in the magistrate court to deal with the additional workload . again , I will be keep that under review . the hon . member be right : 80 % of offender be actually reoffender . this country have a real problem with fail to rehabilitate offender , and our record on reduce reoffende be not as strong as it should be . Prison have a place , and it be really important that people who break our law be properly punish . that be necessary for the public to maintain confidence in our system and for law - abide citizen to feel that there be consequence when our law be break . there be no doubt in my mind that punishment and prison be important , but they go hand in hand with rehabilitation . I do not think there be a choice to be make between punishment and rehabilitation — they be two side of the same coin , and we have to have both . this Government be determined to have a well track record on both punishment and rehabilitation compare with anything that have go on in the previous 14 year . let I gently say that it be not the case that magistrate court send more people to prison . follow the previous change the court be able to run through case fast , and because the previous Government have not create capacity in the prison estate , the pressure on prison place become acute and the measure have to be drop back to six month — the shadow Lord Chancellor might wish to offer further comment on that . that be what happen and what I expect to happen again . it be fascinating and powerful to hear the plan to deal with the backlog in the court . I know that all our constituent will be grateful for the Lord Chancellor ' s work . I have a constituent who be the victim of an aggravate burglary that involve multiple man come to her house with machete in 2021 . finally , last week at Snaresbrook Crown court , a date for the trial of the gentleman accuse of this crime be set for October 2026 . the Lord Chancellor will recognise and share the concern of my constituent . as she say , justice delay be justice deny . what comfort can she give my constituent that such matter will be expedite as a result of her work ? I be very sorry to hear about the experience of my hon . friend ' s constituent . I have many such instance of unacceptable delay for hear case in my own constituency caseload . I hope that the measure that I have announce today will begin to ease some of that pressure , because make this change will free up around 2 , 000 sitting day in the Crown court . this Government have fund an additional 500 beyond the concordat process agreement that be reach by the previous Government in June . I be determined to make more progress in deal with the Crown court backlog so that constituent such as my hon . friend ' s do not have to wait so many year for their case to be hear and , ultimately , for justice to be do . may I reach out across the party divide to say that I warmly welcome what the Justice Secretary say about punishment and rehabilitation ? by coincidence , I have just write to she — she will not have see the letter yet — about the work of my constituent , the publisher Andrew Duncan , in co - ordination with a panel of expert that include a psychology professor , a former governor of Pentonville , a Probation Service specialist in reduce reoffende and a central London magistrate , on a new concept of community detention . my request be that either she or the Minister she think most appropriate will agree to have a meeting with my constituent , a few member of his team and I . as a right - of - centre politician , I be sometimes sceptical of alternative to prison . this one sound really interesting , and I think it would not be a waste of her time . I thank the right hon . member for the spirit in which he make his remark . I hope that where consensus be possible on a cross - party basis across this House , we be able to work together , because this be a national problem that will require we all to come together to solve it . I will track down his letter and ensure that he get a full response and a meeting . in Shropshire , the justice system be break . under the watch of the last Conservative Government , the remand court in Shropshire magistrate court be close and transfer to Kidderminster . I be delighted to say that , under this Government ' s watch , that remand court be about to reopen . some 300 court session be run empty each and every year at Shropshire magistrate court . my local paper , the Shropshire Star , highlight a criminal trial — it involve a retrial — that will take seven year from the original date of the offence to be dispose of , which be an absolute disgrace . will the Lord Chancellor look at way in which we can far empower district judge in the magistrate court , and at the use of technology in the justice system ? finally , it be important that the transparency around datum be fix . unfortunately , the last Conservative Government do not release the datum on time . we need to understand what be really go on now , and what have happen in the past . my hon . friend be absolutely right . case be take too long to reach conclusion in our court . we be make some change , and I be consider what further one we will need to make . there be an important piece around efficiency and productivity in the court system , and there have also be report by Lord Justice Auld , Lord Leveson and other on other way to speed up trial be hear . all those option be on the table , and I will update the House in due course about this Government ' s approach . I simply reiterate my remark on the datum : when it be finally publish , it be important that we can be certain that it be accurate and properly capture what be go on in our Crown court and that we can all have confidence in it . in fairness , the last Government do pick up on this problem . I be determined that it will be resolve and that the datum will ultimately be publish . I thank the Secretary of State for her very welcome statement . there be a clear commitment to the change that be necessary . she will note that I nearly always focus on victim , so will she outline what weight be give to victim impact statement , and whether there be a need to determine in law how much weight be give to the impact on devastate family ? I always think of the devastated family — they be the one who be really important . let I reassure the hon . member that we place great importance in the victim ' s experience . this government will strengthen that far and ensure that victim be not far traumatise by their experience of seek justice . victim impact statement have an important role to play . the victim Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , recently meet Victim Support and other group . this be a really important piece of work for the Government , and I know the hon . Member will hold we to account on our track record . I be very aware of the impact of delay in the system on victim , which be why we be make the change today . we will make more progress to bring those delay down . I thank the Lord Chancellor and her Department for their important work in tackle the backlog . give that the previous Government agree the funding allocation , who do she feel be responsible for the number of Crown court sitting day be cut ? have she explore the further use of artificial intelligence in small judgment to speed up the backlog ? I reiterate my previous remark on what have happen to Crown court sitting day , but I do not think it be helpful for I to speculate on who be ultimately responsible . it be clear that the concordat process have not work as it should . as I say , the first process that I conduct as Lord Chancellor will not have those issue . an agreement be reach and it have to be stick to . I be sure that all those in the system be worried about the impact on victim — they be the one who will be wait long . as I say , although report have suggest that up to 5 , 000 sitting day have be cancel , the number be more like 1 , 600 , and the change we have announce today will free up capacity in the Crown court . I be very interested in the role that AI and other technology and digital solution can play in increase efficiency and productivity in the Crown court system and the court system more broadly . that be subject to discussion in relation to the Budget and the spending review . I hope to update the House in due course . I be very concerned to hear of the miss publication of Crown court backlog datum . how can we hope to drive down the backlog if we do not know how big it be ? one of the reason why I be determined to get to the bottom of what have go wrong , and to ensure that all error and accuracy issue be deal with , be so that we have comprehensive datum that we can rely upon . we know that the Crown court backlog be at historic level . sadly , I do not think that any assurance work on the datum will suddenly bring that down — I suspect it be more likely to go up — but it be important to establish the true scale of that backlog , because this House need to know exactly what it look like so that it can hold the Government to account on their effort to bring it down . we can not do that unless we know its exact size . sadly , I suspect it will remain at the historic level that we have inherit — I do not think it will come down by much . I thank the Lord Chancellor very much for her statement . it be very clear , from everything we have see over the past 14 year and since 4 July , that the previous Government completely fail to manage our prison estate . do she agree with I and my constituent that it be really important that we maintain space in our prison system to lock up the most dangerous offender ? at the same time , we need to have a look at community sentence . will she be do that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there must always be space in our prison to lock up the most dangerous offender . we must always place public protection above all other consideration when it come to dangerous violent offender . when we have a capacity crisis as acute as the one I inherit , we unfortunately have to also consider alternative , simply because run out of space be no option at all . I reiterate the remark I make early : punishment and rehabilitation have to go together . it be not a choice between one or the other . they be two side of the same coin and the Government be determined to make progress on both . my constituent will welcome the clarity that the Lord Chancellor have provide today . with reference to her point about the long - term plan for the justice system , a plan that we have to get right , may I ask she to keep in mind the need for a proper , robust and accessible legal aid system ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . legal aid underpin our system of justice and access to justice . stabilise the situation in relation to legal aid be a key priority for the Government . I have a number of prison in my constituency , so I be particularly concerned to read about Serco ' s failure on tag . what be the Secretary of State do to hold it to account ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . Serco ' s performance be unacceptable . we be have daily meeting with it to ensure it recover the position . I have make it clear that improved performance be an absolutely priority . we be already impose financial penalty , give its performance to date , and we will not hesitate to trigger relevant contractual penalty if it do not improve . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement , and commend she and her ministerial team for the work they be do to fix the last 14 year of Tory mess in this Department . in her statement , she talk about the withdrawal of victim from the process . on that point , 60 % of rape victim be drop out of their case , partly because they be wait year for justice . will the Secretary of State explain how independent legal advocate will support victim to see their case through to trial ? the introduction of independent legal advocate for rape victim will , we believe , ensure that the right that victim already have will be enforce , and in such a way as to give they the confidence to continue with their case . this be a key priority policy for our party and for the Government , and I will be very pleased to be able to roll it out over the come month and year . it be a significant change to our legal system . it will be the first time that independent legal advice be give to a type of victim . we think that be incredibly important , because rape victim lose confidence in the process and be often re - traumatise by the process of seek justice . the independent legal advocate will try to ensure that the scale of justice be rebalance and that victim have a fair shot at have their already exist legal right enforce . prison have two vital function : punishment and rehabilitation . reoffende have go up , because after 14 year under the conservative prison have become college of crime . we need to get the basic right and we need to get the fundamental right on prison education reform . will my right hon . friend look at how we can improve literacy and numeracy skill in our prison estate ? we will of course look at improved literacy and other skill within our prison estate . the problem with run a prison estate as hot as the previous Government do , and so full to the brim , be that when we be so badly overcrowded and prisoner be lock up for 23 hour every day , there be very little other work we can do to help prisoner rehabilitate . deal with the capacity crisis will enable we to have a well performance and well track record on rehabilitation , which be crucial if we be ultimately to reduce the number of victim in future and cut crime . do the Secretary of State agree that fail to address the prison capacity crisis and allow the Crown court backlog to grow to unprecedented level have mean that the entirety of our criminal justice system have be break ? I make particular reference to rape and serious sexual offence case . it be clear that the position I have inherit from my predecessor be shocking and completely unacceptable . we be , simply , one bad day away from total disaster in our criminal justice system . that be why , since we form the Government , we have be make the difficult choice necessary to stabilise our criminal justice system and stabilise the situation in our prison , so we can restore the system to one that the public can rightly have confidence in . government ' s Childcare Expansion with permission , I will make a statement on the Government ' s plan to deliver additional place in school - base nursery , and a clarification on Government action on so - call top - up fee for fund childcare hour . I will also update the House on the Government ' s response to the consultation on safeguard requirement in the early year foundation stage framework . the Secretary of State have promise a new era of child - centre government , work alongside the sector to deliver meaningful long - term reform of the early year system . the Government believe that all child deserve access to a brilliant early education , regardless of who they be , where they come from or their parent ' income . today mark a significant step for thousand of family , as we begin the first stage of the Government ' s plan to deliver 3 , 000 new or expand school - base nursery . from today , primary school can apply for a grant of up to £ 150 , 000 from a £ 15 million capital funding pot to make the change need for their site to accommodate a nursery . the new or expand nursery be set to open across England from the start of the next school year . we have choose to expand school - base nursery because school be at the heart of our community . school - base nursery cater for a high proportion of child with special educational need and disability , and offer a high share of nursery place in the most deprive area . to support our most vulnerable child and build on the exist market , the funding will be available for project that be either school - run or deliver on the school ' s site by private and voluntary provider or childminder . school will be ask to work with local authority to demonstrate local parental demand for place . if there be primary school that be interested in this programme but be not currently ready or eligible to host new nursery place , we encourage they to register an interest for the future . we expect funding to be allocate to successful school in spring 2025 to support delivery of the first nursery place from September 2025 . as we expand the childcare system , it be crucial that early education and childcare remain fair and accessible to all parent . that be why we be take action to address situation where parent be face high and additional charge on top of the funded entitlement hour . those charge , which may include mandatory fee for nappy , lunch , or additional hour , should not be a condition for access a fund place . the vast majority of provider be work hard to make sure that parent can access their entitlement , but any sort of mandatory additional charging or preferential treatment towards parent who purchase optional extras be not acceptable . over the next few month , my Department will engage with local authority , provider and parent to develop and clarify guidance on this issue , include on so - call " top - up fee " . we will support local authority to protect parent from overcharge . I turn to new childcare entitlement . in September , work parent of child age nine month and above be able to access 15 hour per week of government - fund early education for the first time . I can confirm that over 320 , 000 additional child be now access the new entitlement . deliver the scheme have not be without difficulty and owe much to the collaboration between local authority , provider and the work of my right hon . friend , the Secretary of State , who have make ensure the roll - out a priority . at the same time , we be help the sector to deliver the necessary place for September 2025 . this final , more challenging phase of the roll - out will increase the fund childcare entitlement of work parent to 30 hour per week . trust matter in politic , which be why I want to reiterate this Government ' s commitment to honour the promise make by the last government to deliver these entitlement , but the House should be in no doubt that this will be an extremely difficult task . there remain a significant shortage of staff and place . the Government ' s spending watchdog have say that , in order to deliver the roll - out , in some part of the country we will need to double or even triple capacity in order to provide the additional hour . there be substantial gap to fill , leave behind knowingly by the conservative party . we must be honest with family about the fact that in some part of England , while parent may receive the hour they be promise , they may not get their first choice of nursery or childminder . I assure the House that we will continue to work tirelessly to bridge the gap in time for next September , and our plan to expand primary school - base nursery will help we to deliver these entitlement . our priority be to provide high - quality education and care for child while ensure their safety , in order to give every child the good start in life . today the Department publish its official response to the consultation on proposal to strengthen safeguarding requirement in the statutory early year foundation stage framework . these reform be set to be implement from September 2025 . the change to be make to the framework be base on lesson learn from tragic past event , response to our consultation , and feedback from safeguard expert and the sector . the consultation receive 1 , 470 response , with strong support for all the proposal . the Department will therefore implement all the proposal , include those on safe recruitment , child absence , safe eating , safeguard training , and paediatric first aid training . there will also be new proposal on provide employment reference and support whistleblowing . these change will formalise exist good practice , and will ensure that all early year educator have the knowledge and support that they need to deliver safe , high - quality early education and childcare . as many parent know , childminder be a key part of the early education and childcare market , provide choice and flexibility . we be already deliver childminder start - up grant to help new childminder with the cost of register , and on 1 November we will introduce new flexibility for childminder to help they join and stay in the profession . these change will create a new category of childminder who can work entirely from non - domestic premise . the total number of people who can work together under a childminder ' s registration will increase from three to four . childminder will also have more flexibility to operate for more time outside domestic premise , for instance from a community hall or school . these new flexibility will far support the Government ' s commitment to roll out expand childcare entitlement and give child the good start in life . parent ' need for childcare do not stop when their child reach primary school age . since July , we have allocate more than £ 130 million to local authority to begin deliver these new place to parent of primary school age child as part of the national wraparound childcare programme . initial delivery plan indicate that this programme will deliver up to 200 , 000 new childcare place , at either end of the school day , available in over 50 % of all primary school . however , we want to go far to support hard - work family and tackle disadvantage , which be why we commit ourselves in our manifesto to introduce free breakfast club in every primary school . breakfast club can have a tremendously positive impact in help child to arrive at school on time and ready to learn , while also help work parent to have more choice in the workplace . from April 2025 , free breakfast club will be available in up to 750 early adopter school . that will be part of the test - and - learn phase , but new breakfast club , once roll out nationally , will be available to every state - fund school with primary school age child , and will give parent more affordable childcare choice while also help family with the cost of living . child will be able to start the school day ready to learn , which will give they the good start in life and in their education . this Government be determined to break down barrier to opportunity . that must start before school , with high - quality early education that be both available and affordable . we inherit a pledge without a plan , so this Labour Government must work to deliver the change that family need . we will deliver place in new nursery , tackle unfair " top - up fee " , and ensure that every child can have the good start in life . I commend this statement to the House . order . I should explain to new colleague that intervention be not make during statement by minister or response from shadow Ministers . I now call the shadow Minister to respond to the Minister ' s statement . I thank the Minister for give I advance sight of his statement . Labour Members may take this opportunity to create a fictitious narrative about the alleged failure of the former Government on early year and childcare , but it will not wash with we and it will not wash with the british public . that be simply because our record on childcare be strong , so let I take this opportunity to remind the Government and the House exactly what it be . in 2010 , we extend the three and four - year - old entitlement , commonly take as 15 hour a week for 38 week of the year . in 2013 , we introduce 15 hour of free early education a week for disadvantaged two - year - old . in 2017 , we double the three and four - year - old entitlement to 30 hour per week for work parent , as well as introduce tax - free childcare , which mean that for every £ 8 people pay in , the Government would automatically add £ 2 to support childcare cost — on top of the free - hour entitlement . in March 2023 , we announce the big expansion of childcare by a UK Government in history . it be intend to give work parent access to 30 hour of free childcare a week , from when their child be nine month old until they start school , and to save family an average of £ 6 , 900 a year . our reason for do that be simple : childcare be one of the big cost face work family today , as well as one of the big barrier to parent return to work if and when they wish to do so . I want to take this opportunity to thank early year provider , local authority , membership body , and other key partner who have make deliver this possible . I welcome the fact that the Government have finally agree that roll out our childcare expansion will empower parent to make the choice that be good for they , and be commit to do so . I be , however , disappoint that they do not do more to spread awareness among parent of the childcare entitlement that become available in September . will the Minister tell we whether there be any unspent budget for this , and will he now commit himself to increase the publicising of childcare roll - out so that parent be rightly aware of their entitlement ? of course the opposition welcome the expansion of childcare and support the idea of utilise unused space in school , which provide a single point of contact for parent with multiple child , but will the Minister tell we how many childcare place the first 300 new or expand nursery will provide ? the Government previously pledge to deliver 3 , 000 nursery to support 100 , 000 childcare place . what will be the timeline for the delivery of the rest of those nursery , and be the Government still commit to the creation of 100 , 000 childcare place across the country in the long term ? the Education Secretary have confirm that early year and childcare be her no . 1 priority , which I wholeheartedly support . however , the Government ' s education tax will mean that child in class in which one child be five year old , or be due to turn five by the end of the year , will be subject to the Government ' s retrograde education tax regardless of their age . will the Minister confirm that that be indeed a broken promise ? how can the british public trust the Education Secretary ' s word that she will prioritise early year and childcare when she have already break a promise within the first 100 day of a Labour Government ? I thank the shadow Minister for his response , and welcome he to his place . I know that he will want to be a keen champion for the early year sector , and I be glad to hear he welcome the update that I have give to the House . as I say in my statement , Labour be committed to the delivery of expand entitlement across Government . the last Government leave significant challenge , but we be not shirk that responsibility . with Labour , the early year sector can rest assure that we will be work tirelessly to deliver a wide sea change in early education , as well as high and rise standard throughout the education system . let I now deal with some of the hon . Gentleman ' s specific point . it be clear to I from my consultation and engagement with parent and provider so far that we have inherit a pledge without a plan , and the consequence of that be inherit delivery challenge relate to workforce and place . I appreciate the point that the hon . Gentleman make about the workforce ; I believe by reset the relationship with the workforce , we can have a much more positive relationship with the sector in the future . over 300 , 000 child have benefit from the entitlement offer since September this year , which demonstrate that we be actively engage and work with parent to promote opportunity to take up the offer . we will continue to do so . on school - base nursery , the pilot during the testing phase be for 300 place from April . our ambition be for 3 , 000 place over the course of this Parliament . [ Official Report , 22 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 1wc . ] ( Correction ) I look forward to work with the hon . member constructively to bring about the change that early year education so desperately need . I thank the Minister for all the work he be do to right a much overdue wrong . it be extraordinary to hear the shadow Minister try to claim credit for something this Government have finally do today , put to rest the concern that many of we try to raise with the previous Government . I thank the Minister for be honest enough to finally publish the datum about the number of people we need work with our child to make these plan happen . the previous Government always avoid the question and now we can see why , because the datum show that we will need an extra 35 , 000 people work in our childcare sector by autumn next year to fulfil all our pledge , and an extra 6 , 000 by the end of this year . will the Minister tell we more about his workforce strategy ? we take our hat off to the people who look after our child . I know this Government want to invest in they , but we need a lot more of they . what can we do to make that happen ? I thank my hon . friend for her tireless work speak up for child , young people and parent up and down the country . as she rightly say , we be work hard with the early year sector to recruit the staff we need , include through the extended recruitment campaign do something big , so that we attract more people to work in the early education system and ensure there be good training pathway into career in early education . we be reset relationship with staff across the education sector to ensure they be respect and value for the important work they do . school - base nursery currently have low turnover and have the option to use some staff flexibly between reception and early year in primary school . I be look forward to crack on with deliver on those commitment . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , who have two minute . I be suffer because of the length of time that my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) take early . I will try to stick to two minute , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Minister for sight of his statement . the Liberal Democrats believe that flexible , affordable childcare and early year education be a critical part of our society . high - quality early year education be the well possible investment in the future and contribute to economic performance in the present as well . most importantly , it be the most effective way to narrow the gap between rich and poor child . broadly , we welcome the Government ' s promise to expand access to affordable childcare and early year education . under the previous Government , we see what happen when big promise on childcare be not back up by the funding and resource need to deliver they . the Conservative Government ' s plan risk exacerbate the problem that parent already face : a lack of childminder place and eye - watering fee . the number of childminder in England fall by an estimate 26 % between 2018 and 2023 . last year , a report find that 35 % of nursery manager would limit the number of place they offer unless the Government help with recruitment . I note from the Minister ' s statement that the Government be take step to improve recruitment and retention in the childcare and early year sector , but do the Minister agree that a career strategy be also need for those work in early year , include a training programme , so that all those work with young child be properly train and support ? will he give assurance that the place announce today will be properly support by commit to a full review of the rate pay to provider for free hour , to ensure they cover the actual cost of deliver that high - quality childcare ? I thank the hon . member for his statement and welcome he to his place . as he identify , there be some core challenge for the early year sector in deliver the Government ' s agenda to expand childcare entitlement . as I make clear in my statement , today ' s announcement set out key step we be look to take to deliver for child and ensure that they have safe , support system to help they succeed in life . I know that he will support our ambition of ensure that every child , no matter where they come from , can succeed in life . the hon . Member be right to focus on disadvantage , which be a key priority for I as a Minister . if we be serious about break down barrier to opportunity , we need to think about the impact of the scheme on the most disadvantaged in our society . the number of childminder involve in the system have halve over the year ; we want to reset that relationship . the new flexibility announce today will make a big difference . finally , he will appreciate that funding be a matter for the spending review . I thank the Minister for finally bring forward a realistic plan for expand childcare . resident , and certainly parent , in Southend West and Leigh will welcome the announcement . will he provide assurance that childminder , who be a vital part of childcare arrangement , will still be a key focus ? will he give a further idea of how they will be support ? childminder be a key part of the childcare market , provide more choice and flexibility for parent . from next month , the Government plan to implement new flexibility to help childminder join and stay in the profession . that will include enable childminder to work from non - domestic premise , as I mention in my statement , and increase the number of childminder who can work together ; that will improve child ' s access to new experience out of the home and encourage socialisation . as we seek to deliver a sea change in our approach to early year , we want partner , include childminder , to work closely with we to push for well . I call the Father of the House . there be countless million of free childminder available . the love between a grandparent and a grandchild be the pure love : love without responsibility . I declare a personal interest . will the Minister assure I that he will incentivise grandparent to look after their grandchild , and that nothing in the tax or benefit system will discriminate against mother who want to look after their child full time ? will he build on the Conservatives ' scheme of transferrable allowance ? family have an important role to play in support child in the first few year of their life . we be committed to break down barrier to opportunity for every child , in every part of the country , and our childcare system have a key role to play in that . as a former school governor and a dad , I see the amazing work that preschool and nursery do up and down the country . these measure will be a key way to break down barrier to opportunity and get the country grow , as the Minister say . will the Minister commit to ensure that child in care and the child of those in the armed force be prioritise for the additional care place ? will he reassure childminder that we be on their side , because childminder in Telford have miss the memo from the Government on this set of improvement ? order . I remind hon . member to ask short question . since join the House , my hon . friend have already become a champion for child and young people in his constituency . he raise a number of point — about childminder , support for child in care , and military family . as I represent the heart and home of the Royal Navy , I take those matter very seriously . I will certainly consider the point that he raise as we design a system fit for the future . I be incredibly proud of the previous Government ' s massive expansion of the childcare offer , and I be genuinely pleased that the new Government be carry on with it . when it come to the expansion of in - school nursery , what mechanism will be put in place to ensure that rural community , like mine in Mid Buckinghamshire , get a locked in , fair share of those new facility ? our party want to govern the whole country . in the election in July , we win many rural seat , and we will take the view and ambition of rural community seriously . if the hon . Gentleman want to raise particular point with I to ensure that the roll - out work well in his constituency , I be very happy to meet he to discuss those issue . with so many family struggle to find affordable childcare across my Hitchin constituency , I really welcome the Minister ' s announcement today , and I will encourage local school to take part in the pilot scheme . I particularly welcome the focus on the exclusionary nature of top - up fee . those fee run counter to the nature of the scheme , and all too often leave those most in need of affordable childcare unable to access it . will the Minister assure we that as he take the vital , robust action need to clamp down on top - up fee , he will work with the sector more widely to ensure the viability of provider , who be all too often leave on the brink by the previous Government ' s mismanagement of childcare ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I have hear that message loud and clear from parent in constituency up and down the country . where provider seek to put up fresh barrier to access , we will not tolerate they . we will make guidance in this area as clear and consistent as possible to support hard - press family as we deliver this sea change in early year provision . I thank the Minister for this welcome news . within seven month , my party colleague in Northern Ireland have design a scheme to slash childcare bill by 15 % , save parent up to £ 660 per month . the Northern Ireland childcare subsidy scheme have save parent about £ 1 million in the month of September alone . some 13 , 000 child sign up in the first four week . that be DUP delivery . do the Minister have any plan for implement great support on a UK - wide basis , so that well communication and well partnership can blossom and grow ? I always enjoy respond to question from the hon . Gentleman . on my visit in April to Belfast , I hear that childcare be a huge issue for the community . I assure he that there be more we can do to support our colleague in Northern Ireland . we have already commit to a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss these issue . I thank the Minister for his statement and welcome these measure , which will do an awful lot to help hard - press family in my constituency . do he agree that the Conservatives suffer from something of a blind spot in look back at their record , which contain year in which funding fall short of the delivery cost ? they ignore the exodus of early year professional and the fact that 1 , 400 sure Start centre have be close , yet they continue to believe that we have never have it so good . will the Minister join I in thank early year professional in Southampton Itchen , who can finally count on a Government who be child - centre , and could he outline how these measure will be target at so - call childcare desert ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and congratulate he on be select for the Select Committee . I agree that we should be shock by the Conservatives ' response to today ' s statement . this Government be focus on the issue that make the big difference to work people across the country , so that we can deliver the change we need . today ' s announcement be an example of how we will go about do that . I be very keen to meet my hon . friend to discuss these issue far , and I appreciate his thank to those in the sector for the hard work that they do in his constituency . I hugely welcome the news about funding for school , child and parent , and for school - base nursery in particular . I hope the Minister will look fondly on application from Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield in due course . I wonder whether he think that the capital allocation in the statement be sufficient for his ambition . do the Minister agree that this Government be deliver on their promise within their first 100 day ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be absolutely delighted to hear of his enthusiasm for the scheme , which will make a huge difference to community up and down our country . we be start a test - and - learn phase in April ; the roll - out will be in September . [ Official Report , 22 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) we want to learn from that approach , and I would be delighted to work with he on this matter . I strongly welcome the propose expansion of childcare , which I be sure will help many family in my Penrith and Solway constituency . can the Minister outline how this measure will be target at the area of the country with the great need , and at area that be consider to be childcare desert ? we be absolutely committed to be a child - centre government , and it be vital that we deliver the programme in the area in most need . that mean make sure that we understand where there be gap in place and in the workforce , and we look forward to work closely with the sector to ensure that the scheme make the big difference in community that need it the most . this announcement be particularly fitting , as my son start preschool today . many hard - work parent in York Outer welcome today ' s news , but many feel that some provider be take the biscuit when it come to funded hour , abnormality , unfair top - up fee and even restriction on the day of the week on which fund hour can be use . will the Minister meet I so that I can pass on York Outer parent ' concern about the funded hour scheme ? I be very happy to meet my hon . friend , and I wish his son good luck as he start nursery today . I have sore calf after this morning , Madam Deputy Speaker . a child - centre Government be exactly what people in Newcastle - under - Lyme want , but the disgraceful state of special educational need and disability provision in our school mean that we have more to do . how do this announcement , which I welcome , sit alongside our commitment to overhaul the SEND system ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . we be review the early year SEND funding arrangement to ensure that they be suitable for support the need of child with SEND . for child with more complex need and an education , health and care plan , funding be available via the high need block of the dedicated school grant . local authority should have SEND inclusion funding for child with low and emerge need . disability access funding be also design to support disabled child ' s access to entitlement . we can probably all agree that every child should have the opportunity to reach their full potential , regardless of their background and circumstance , who they know and where they come from . none of that should shape people ' s live more than their talent , creativity or determination . I welcome the emphasis on the importance of early year provision . particularly in these year after the pandemic , measure such as early speech and language intervention can make all the difference . do the Minister agree that now be the time to take early year provision seriously ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; he be absolutely right . the pandemic have a huge impact on child ' s life , and our investment in early intervention around speech and language be absolutely key . I look forward to work with he to deliver that successfully in his constituency . the final zinger of a question be from Josh Simons . we ' ll see ! I be intrigue to hear conservative Members ' attempt to defend their record . moment ago , the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) say that the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) be " preoccupy with her child " and can not be the Leader of the opposition while spend time with her family . this come after she herself say that maternity leave have " go too far " . do the Minister agree that whereas this government be work hard to back the hope that child represent , Conservative Members be , in the end , the same old Tories ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . early year provision be cast off under the Tories , and we be bring it back into the fold as a crucial part of our education system . we be commit to give every young person the good start in life , and I look forward to work with he to make that happen . International Investment Summit I beg to move , that this House have consider the International Investment Summit . I be delighted to open this debate on the Government ' s inaugural international investment summit , which we host at the Guildhall in London on Monday . leader of the world ' s big company , from Alphabet and BlackRock to Goldman Sachs and Novo Nordisk , come from all corner of the globe to meet Government Ministers and to listen to what our new Government have to say . our message at the summit be clear : the UK be open for business once again . we have turn the page on the stagnation and instability of the previous Government , and in just over 100 day , this Government have put growth front and centre of our agenda and reassure investor that we will create the very good condition for they to invest and to grow their business , restore the economic stability and confidence for which business have be cry out for too long . the Prime Minister and the Chancellor make it clear that the UK have an enormous amount to offer , as do all the high - profile investor who speak at the summit , include esteemed business figure such as Larry Fink , Eric Schwartz , Ruth Porat and more . we have make clear our commitment to growth and restore economic stability , and we have give business the confidence that they need for the long term . business be safe in the knowledge that the UK at last have a Government whose central mission be to grow the economy and stimulate private investment , thereby end the chaos and churn of the last 14 year . as both the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have set out , increase investment into the UK be the Government ' s no . 1 priority to drive growth . our mission - drive approach allow we to think in term of year , not week , and to commit to the hard yard require to break down the silos that have too often prevent effective government and get in the way of real growth - drive change . this be about ambitious policymaking for the long term , not stick - plaster politic . as the Chancellor say early this week : " if the challenge be growth , investment be the solution . " I be delighted to say that , as a result of the stability dividend introduce by this Government , we announce a record - break £ 63 billion of shovel - ready investment across the country — more than at any previous summit , and more than double the total of last year ' s summit — from global company such as Eli Lilly , ServiceNow , holtec and many other . I welcome the Government ' s success . could the Minister tell we the proportion of that investment that come into play before the election ? the agreement be reach in the lead - up to the summit and at the summit itself . I be glad that the hon . Gentleman join we in congratulate the new Government on secure £ 63 billion of shovel - ready investment . I lose count of the number of Prime Ministers , Chancellors and Home Secretaries we have under his government . I be work in the private sector at the time , and I often hear from business that say they do not have the stability , or even the predictability , of Government policymake . will the Minister give way ? I will not have a cross - Chamber discussion with the hon . Gentleman . I be sure he will make a contribution to the debate . this Government be determined to increase the number of good , well - skilled job , to embrace the opportunity of technology and innovation , and to improve productivity across the country . at the international investment summit , we demonstrate that the UK have tremendous strength . we have a dynamic , ambitious and globally connect economy that have long be at the forefront of global exploration , invention and innovation . we have a global language , a central time zone and a renowned legal system . we have a high - spend consumer market that benefit from an open economy . we have trade deal with over 70 country , and we have world - class talent support by our globally recognise high education system , with four of the world ' s top 10 university . one of my favourite moment of the summit be a panel chair by our fantastic Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport on the creative industry and sport . I be delighted to have a photograph with Gareth Southgate , which I show to my boy when I get home . in all seriousness , Gareth Southgate talk about how the Premier League be once just an idea and how it have be build and market into a world leader , create great investment into our economy . I be sure the whole House will support that sentiment — hear , hear . the shadow Secretary of State be demonstrate that from a sedentary position — it be the first time I have say that in a debate for some time . when we take over from the last government , we recognise that there be issue we need to address to improve the UK ' s competitiveness . that be why we have already announce a series of step to improve our business environment , such as drive through planning reform to get Britain building , remove the ban on onshore wind farm and give the green light to key solar and datum centre project . we be also undertake a pension investment review , which the Chancellor have ask I to lead , to harness the potential of our £ 2 trillion pension industry to unlock new capital for our innovative business , to drive growth and to improve outcome for future pensioner . we have launch Skills England to boost the nation ' s skill and fill job vacancy by bring together business , trade union , mayor , university , college and training provider . we be also reset our relationship with our close partner in the European Union . I , too , congratulate the Government on an extraordinary achievement in secure £ 63 billion - worth of investment , which be a tremendous vote of confidence not only in this government but in this country . my hon . friend be right to say that a big part of this be the stability dividend , but she be also right to say that reset our relationship with our close neighbour in Europe must also be a big source of appeal . do she hear that feedback at the investment summit ? indeed , I do . business want the Government to take a pragmatic approach , not an ideological approach , to our relationship with our main trading partner , and that be exactly what our new Government be do . I be pleased to report that we be not rest on our laurel ; far from it . on Sunday , the Business Secretary announce the launch of an industrial strategy advisory council , which will be chair by Clare Barclay , the ceo of Microsoft UK . the Business Secretary also announce our modern industrial strategy Green Paper , set out eight growth - drive sector : advanced manufacturing ; clean energy industry ; creative industry ; defence ; digital and technology ; financial service ; life science ; and professional and business service . this be not about pick winner ; it be about build on the UK ' s unique strength and untapped potential to enable our already world - lead service and manufacturing industry to adapt , grow and seize the opportunity to lead in new and emerge industry . at the summit , the Prime Minister set out the Government ' s commitment to a pro - growth approach to competition and regulation , to create a dynamic business environment that will strengthen our foundation and help deliver our growth mission and industrial strategy . as investor make clear , they have a choice of where to invest . we must not rest on our laurel ; we must make sure that we forge ahead with these policy , because we need investor to make a positive choice to invest in our country . as one private sector speaker say at the summit , we do not want investor just to invest ; we want they to place a big bet on invest in the UK . the Chancellor also confirm two new innovative measure to ensure that our public finance institution can well catalyse billion of pound in private investment . we turbocharge the UK Infrastructure Bank to become the national wealth fund , which will have £ 27 . 8 billion to catalyse investment that would not have otherwise take place . we have also launch the British Business Bank ' s new pathfinder british growth partnership , a vehicle to crowd pension fund investment and other institutional investment into venture capital fund and innovative business . we have commit to bring forward a tax road map , long demand by business across the economy , at the Budget . this will give business the certainty and predictability to plan for the future . as the Chancellor have already make clear , we will cap the rate of corporation tax at 25 % for the duration of this Parliament . go be the day when a government — the previous Government — would announce a decrease in corporation tax , then announce an increase and then , month later , reverse the decision again at the next fiscal statement . we want to ensure that business have predictability . we have also say that we will maintain our capital allowance offer , with full expensing and a £ 1 million annual investment allowance . we will also reform and turbocharge the Office for Investment , which will sit under our new joint Treasury - Department for Business and Trade Investment Minister , Poppy Gustafsson , the founder and former ceo of Darktrace . this be a clear demonstration of the Government ' s commitment to well serve the need of investor and break down the silos between Departments , which have too often prevent transformative government policy . we be determined to drive the transformational investment that the country so desperately need to fulfil its economic potential . such measure , introduce within just 100 day , show that this Government be not just about warm word ; we mean business , in every sense of the phrase . this week ' s summit be a major vote of confidence in the UK ' s economic future and in this Government ' s commitment to realise it . the investment and partnership forge at the summit will have lasting impact , drive growth , innovation and sustainability for year to come . it be not just a one - off event ; it be a first milestone in our ongoing work to build a deep and meaningful partnership with business , drive economic growth and create good job for work people up and down this country at all level of society . as we move forward , let we work together across the House to ensure that the benefit of these investment be feel by all our citizen across every region of our great nation . before I finish , I want to say that the particular highlight of the summit for I be the evening reception at St Paul ' s , at which his Majesty the King be present and at which many of we be delighted to hear Elton John , who have some very warm word to say about our new Government . he say something like , " we ' ve be in the doldrum for the last few year , but now we have a new Government under the leadership of a new Prime Minister and thing be look up . " as the Chancellor make clear in her closing speech at the summit , since take power this Government have put unlock private investment at the heart of everything we do . our investment summit demonstrate our commitment to growth and that the UK be once again open for business . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I welcome the Minister back to this place and to her new position ? I assure she that I be very happy to work with she to further the good interest of the United Kingdom . I very much welcome what happen on Monday . have 300 investor come to this country be very welcome ; this country be clearly open for business . we be keen to help the Government to succeed , because it be in everybody ' s interest . I speak not only as a constituency MP , but as a former businessperson . I be also pleased to hear the Prime Minister talk about cut red tape and regulation . we would all welcome that , although I have some question . we know that there be a bottleneck in our economy , particularly in planning and infrastructure , so we will welcome any change that the Government can successfully make to accelerate the project that have be hold up by problem . we also welcome the work — for which I understand the Minister be responsible in her other role as Minister for pension — on the Mansion House compact and the Mansion House reform , which could liberate £ 75 billion of capital into our productive economy . that be much need : only 3 % or 4 % be invest today in equity , compare with 50 % a couple of decade ago , so it be very important that we continue the reform start by the last Government . we be pleased to see all the positivity on Monday , despite the gloom and doom that we have hear from Government Members in recent week . it be good to hear investor say that now be the right time to invest in the UK . we can see why . [ laughter . ] no , it be not necessarily because there be a Labour Government . it be because inflation be run at below 2 % , whereas it be run at 11 % only two year ago . in this country we have only 4 % unemployment , our economy be grow as fast as any other in the G7 and our deficit stand at 4 . 4 % . that be what we hand over to the Minister ' s Government . the deficit be high than we would have like , but in 2010 , by comparison , it stand at more than 10 % . we constantly hear from Labour member the refrain that they inherit the bad economic situation in history , but that be simply not the case . I be happy to take an intervention from the Minister , or any other Government Member , on that point . if they can name a single metric that be bad today than in 2010 , I will be happy to hear it . rise — the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee be go to give we one . the hon . Gentleman give way with characteristic generosity . the truth be that the International Monetary Fund forecast growth for this year at about 0 . 5 % , that family be about £ 1 , 200 bad off on average at the last election than in 2019 , and that since 2010 the national debt have more than double , to £ 2 . 3 trillion . I suggest that those three metric represent not a good inheritance , but a bad one . there be no doubt that we have be through a difficult time , give the effect of covid and the cost of live crisis on a service economy , but the right hon . Gentleman will acknowledge that back in 2010 the deficit be more than 10 % , whereas today it be only 4 % . in real term , adjust for inflation , that be a difference of about £ 160 billion , the equivalent of the health budget . the inheritance leave for the present Government be much well than the one we receive in 2010 . the shadow Secretary of State be be generous to a point . I suggest kindly that in 2010 the outgoing Labour Government do not leave a £ 22 billion in - year hole in the public finance , as the Conservative Government bequeath to we . the Minister be a very sensible person with experience both in the private sector and in politic , so I be surprised that she mention that figure . of the £ 22 billion , £ 9 billion be a result of her Government ' s action in lift public sector pay without any commensurate productivity improvement and in scrap the Rwanda scheme . it be fake news to say that there be a £ 22 billion black hole , I be afraid , and the Minister absolutely know it . there be no doubt that there be tough spending decision and tough choice to be make , but it be very disappointing that one of the Government ' s tough choice have be to scrap the winter fuel allowance . let we see what their other choice will be . do the shadow Secretary of State acknowledge that the cost of government borrowing that this Government have inherit be roughly double what it be in 2010 ? that is , in part , a direct result of the disastrous Liz Truss mini - Budget . that be simply not true — just read what the Bank of England say about that time . all the number go back to normal within a month of that fiscal event . the hon . Gentleman can choose his opinion , but he can not choose his fact . let we look at some fact . of course we welcome the £ 63 billion that have be announce , but as the Minister and her Government stand on a platform of honesty and transparency , let we put some honesty and transparency around the number . the Amazon £ 8 billion be announce on 20 March this year . the Blackstone investment of £ 10 billion in a data centre be announce on 23 April this year . of the £ 63 billion announce , £ 36 billion be announce prior to the investment summit or initiate via thing like auction by the previous Government . only 20 % of what be announce be not already in the pipeline before the investment summit . the reality be that much of it be already bake in . there be bind to be an overlap when a new Government come in , but let we have some transparency and honesty around the number . by spring this year , financial market have already price in the fact that they expect a large labour victory , and that be what give business and the market so much confidence in the future stability of our economy . will the shadow Secretary of State explain why ? I will come on to confidence in a second , if I may . the reality be that the UK have always be a good place for foreign investor . for the past three year , it have be no . 3 in the world for foreign direct investment ; the only country ahead of we have be the US and China . the Minister refer to the wonderful event at the Guildhall . we have wonderful place to host international event , and we support what they do to show the good of Britain to our international investor . I be pleased , but perhaps surprised , to see Elton John entertain the audience ; I be expect Taylor Swift . be that ever on the agenda ? there be obviously a very strong relationship there . but when I think about it , and when I hear about the reversal of position on the DP World investment , I think , " well , it ' s obvious why they ' ve do that : they ' ve ask Elton and the Transport Secretary to join in a duet of ' sorry seem to be the hard Word ' . " interestingly , a no . 10 press release on this mention a rogue operator — I be not sure whether that mean the Secretary of State or the company — so I be not sure where that all land in the end , or whether that be just a rogue comment by the Secretary of State . none the less , we welcome the investment and we will absolutely support any success that the Government can achieve , but , as the Opposition , it be right that we challenge where challenge be due . we have many concern about some of the thing to which the Minister refer . she be absolutely right to say that stability be the key . it breed confidence in investor , which breed investment . that be why we be particularly concerned about the change to business taxation . some be float month ago and have be leave hang in the air . we know that this be now affect investment , particularly around capital gain tax and around business relief — it use to be call business property relief — which be very close to my heart . business relief give private business and business list on AIM the ability to pass on their asset to the next generation without inheritance tax . there be a number of question around whether that relief will be continue . it be hugely important that the Government do continue it , because it affect some of this country ' s fantastic family business , which generate around £ 200 billion of tax receipt every single year and employ nearly 14 million people . that business relief be there for a reason . it be not a tax loophole ; it be an incentive for family and intergenerational business to pass on their asset from one generation to the next . similarly , that happen with agricultural property relief . we be also concerned about the Government ' s unwillingness to confirm that there will be no rise in national insurance for employer . member on both side of the House have describe that as a job tax , and that be exactly what it be . all the uncertainty around business taxation will mean a suspension of investment and a reduction in the amount of hiring , particularly when it be see in conjunction with the potential workplace change that the Government be make , which we will debate in the House on Monday and about which we have great concern . in particular , those relate to union power could take this country back to the 1970 . I know that many member in this place will not remember the 1970 , but I do and it be not a good place to be . in the Prime Minister ' s statement , he talk about cut red tape . if , as currently draft , the 28 new regulation — particularly those for small and medium - sized enterprise — be add to the Employment Rights Bill , it would seriously damage growth , investment and sme . but the Minister do not need to take my word for that . let I read out some of the comment about the change that the Government be think of make that will damage investment . the Federation of Small Businesses say that its member be view the measure come down the line with " trepidation " . Tina McKenzie describe they as " clumsy , chaotic and poorly plan . " she say : " there be already 65 , 000 few payroll job since Labour take power , and the new Government be send out troubling signal to business and investor . " those be her word , not mine . the Institute of Directors say that confidence be fizzle out . its index in relation to investor appetite have go from plus 30 % in June 2024 to minus 7 % in October 2024 . that be in just four month . the CBI say that 62 % of employer say that the UK will be a less attractive place in which to invest . Ernst & Young say that " 60 % of asset management ( private equity ) client have ask they to start work on move abroad . " do the hon . Member agree that he be now guilty of talk down the entrepreneurial spirit and the ability of UK company to cope with an exciting new government ? I be very keen not to do that . that be my point . it be gloom and doom from the opposition — sorry , I mean the Government ; I have to stop do that — and it be bring on by these significant change . these be not my comment , but the comment of sensible business representative organisation , which be represent their member . we should listen to the voice of business in this context . even Richard Walker of Iceland Food , one of the Government ' s supporter , say that the change must happen slowly to avoid a " disastrous impact " . I realise that we have a lot to get use to these day . I have to get use to call those on the Labour Benches " the Government " , and I also have to get use to be a backseat driver . it be even more frustrating be a backseat driver when the learner driver in the drive seat do not know the difference between the brake and the accelerator . importantly , stability be one of the key lever that the Government have at their disposal . Winston Churchill once say that some people see " private enterprise as a predatory tiger to be shoot . some see it as a cow that they can milk . few people see it for what it really be — the strong horse that pull the whole cart " . it be hugely important that we get behind private enterprise in this country . it be hugely important that we get that stability in tax policy , workplace policy and the employment relationship . it be hugely important that we continue to level up this country . I note that levelling - up seem to have disappear as a departmental aim , but that be still hugely important to all part of this country , not least to the part of the country that I represent . it be also hugely important that we control energy cost . we know that that be a key concern to many business around the UK . another key concern be that we cut the red tape for our large company . the area that I focus most on as a business Minister be sme , which be the backbone of our economy . the no . 1 area that they struggle with be access to finance . I would really like to see some different measure in that area . on that point about finance , I be pleased to see that JP Morgan , which have its headquarters in my constituency , join other big bank in the world to back the push to invest in the UK ahead of the summit . do the hon . member agree with JP Morgan and those bank that we should be optimistic about the future of the british economy follow the election ? I would not necessarily say " follow the election " , but , generally , we should be very positive about our economy . I set out early some of the economic condition that would make it conducive to invest in the UK , and we should be proud of that situation . I welcome the Minister ' s comment about the change of priority of the British Business Bank , specifically in relation to the pathfinder initiative . that piece of work be start by my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) when he be in the Treasury . again , that will help to ease the flow of finance into our sme . as I look , with a mixture of sadness and joy , at the now redundant conservative party manifesto , I can see that there be some really positive idea in there about ease finance for sme . in particular , I be refer to thing such as regional mutual bank , which be a policy that the Labour Government should adopt , and the open finance and smart datum revolution for our economy , which could transform the opportunity of SME finance , make it much easy for sme to shop around . however , the key thing that I would reiterate to the Minister and her team be that they need to make sure that we have stability in term of not just work , but business taxation , capital gain tax , and business relief . I say no to a job tax , but , yes to stability and business taxis . I say no to take we back to the 1970 , by give union more power , no to doom and gloom , and yes to a positive and optimistic view of the UK ' s future in the world . I call Jade Botterill to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to deliver my maiden speech in this important debate on international investment , the benefit of which will be feel right across all region of our country . I want to begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , Mark Eastwood . he be a dedicated servant to his previous constituency of Dewsbury . on behalf of myself and our community , I say thank you . be the Member for the area in which I grow up be truly the honour of my life . I will forever be grateful to the people across Ossett and Denby Dale who put their faith in I to represent the area that I proudly call home . I pay tribute to the Labour member across the constituency , especially stalwart member Robert Gosling , without whom I would not be stand here today . I would also like to take the opportunity to thank my parent for their support , as well as my brother , who have always be there for I during some of the most challenging time . I be delighted that they have travel from Wakefield to be in the Public Gallery today . their own commitment to our community in their long career of public service — work hard and talk straight — be principle that I hope to emulate here . my mum be so committed to the north that this be her first ever trip to London — proof , be it ever need , that us northerner only come south if somebody make we . I know many member have already speak about the beauty of their patch , but with respect , I must make the case for Ossett and Denby Dale . drive from Ossett towards the Wakefield rural village and into Denby Dale , the sky widen and the moor roll out before you . on that drive , when I see the Emley Moor mast appear from the horizon , build tall than the Eiffel tower , I know I be home . it be beautiful , it be Yorkshire and it be the place that make I who I be today . it be not just those moor and view that move I ; it be also the people who call they home . we be people of talent , community and , as good Yorkshire folk say , hard graft . in fact , that beautiful landscape be the fruit of exactly that graft , of that talent . you see it in the pit dig across the countryside that serve to fuel and heat our nation . you see it in the field — plough , plant and graze by countless generation to feed not just Yorkshire but the rest of the country . you see it in the town market , which have bustle with small trader , craftsman and local farmer for generation . that landscape be not just the cradle of talent , but a product of it . each town , each village have its own community , its own culture — all quietly , proudly distinct . as well as hard work , these town and village be famous for their culture , their creativity and their heritage — home to brass band , Morris dancer , maypole and even a Doctor who , but most importantly of all , the world ' s great rugby league team , Wakefield Trinity . labour may be a party of the Union , but in West Yorkshire , when it come to rugby , we watch the proper stuff and as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that be league . we be also home to Yorkshire Sculpture Park , with its Barbara Hepworths and Henry Moores , and the National Coal Mining Museum , which root we in our proud history . I be enthusiastic — sometimes maybe a little too enthusiastic — that my constituency contain so many wonderful pub and brewer . we have the ever expand Ossett Brewery and our famous yearly festival , Ossett Beercart . just as we work hard and play hard , we also pie hard . indeed , for over 200 year , the people of Denby Dale have mark special occasion in the only way I think appropriate : by bake enormous pie to feed thousand — some even as long as 40 foot , with nine tonne of filling and 200 pint of bitter . that history and that culture must be champion . it be Yorkshire culture ; it be our culture . but I refuse to talk about my community only in the past tense — about opportunity we use to have and industry we use to lead . indeed , I want my successor in this place to be celebrate the creativity and achievement of child be bear in my constituency today . sadly , however , the Social Mobility Commission recently report that many young people in Ossett and Denby Dale , and other post - industrial community across our nation , face an uphill battle . grow up in a rural town , I know that feel all too well : that the place you be from be overlook — forget , even ; that opportunity be few and far between ; and that the only path to success in life be leave your family , your friend , your home . after briefly live in London in my twenty for work , I remember feel like the token northerner with the funny accent . I find myself have to speak eloquently so folk down here could actually understand I . the only problem with that be that when I get back home , my friend and family would ask I why I be speak so posh . it actually make I feel quite lose . young people in Ossett and Denby Dale , and in town and village across our country , should not feel like they have to get out to get ahead — and yet so many of they do . to talk solely about what be once possible in our community be to betray those young people . instead , our politic must be build on their dream and on their potential : decent , secure job with reliable public transport to get they there ; good affordable housing where they can build their family and their future ; high - quality education and skill training ; access to creativity and culture ; aspiration , hope . when they see the sky widen and the moor roll out before they , with Emley Moor mast stand tall on the horizon , young people should see somewhere that be ready to be remade once more by their talent , by their graft , by they . England be a nation of town and village like mine — of community , of culture , of graft . for England to succeed , town and village must succeed , and it will be my mission in this place to see that happen . I welcome the Minister to her place . I also thank she for her support when she be not in this place and I be far back on these Benches , and we work together on some of the issue under focus today . we Liberal Democrats want Britain to be one of the most attractive place in the world for business to invest . we want to see responsible , sustainable business invest in tackle the climate emergency and create job , growth and wealth , some of which should be invest into our health , education and public service . I welcome the Government decide to hold an international investment summit within their first 100 day . it send an excellent signal to the world that UK plc be open for business , and we Liberal Democrats welcome and support that move . we welcome , too , the announcement about the revival of the industrial strategy and a new strategy for the British Business Bank . we look forward to scrutinise those plan as a constructive opposition . however , we also know that this Government have to rebuild not only the economy , but our country ' s reputation . it be an enormous relief that some of the dark day of the last Government be — I hope — behind we . we have the tweet diplomacy of two former Prime Ministers , which make we look like a small country on the international stage . we have the half - bake Brexit deal , which have wrap up small business in red tape and ream of paperwork . we have the rolling back on net zero and the flip - flop fiasco on HS2 , which create uncertainty , scare off investor and put the job of the future at risk . we also have the sheer incompetence of a Government who have forget how to negotiate . in my former role as my party ' s health spokesperson , talk to some of the pharmaceutical company involve in the voluntary scheme for brand medicine , pricing and access negotiation , it become patently clear that many be put their investment abroad and not in this country . that investment be lose on the Conservatives ' watch . even though I welcome many of the thing that the Labour Government have propose and be bring forward , there be some notable gap , and it be on those gap that I wish to focus . we know today ' s debate be about international investment , but I urge the Government to think about local investment in this country too . small business be the engine of growth and the backbone of our economy . they be the heartbeat of our community , but they be really struggle to invest . there be one major reason for that : the broken business rate system . it be absolutely absurd that small brick and mortar business on our high street up and down the country see their business rate go up while Amazon warehouse see their business rate go down . it be a disgrace . I urge the Labour Government , in the strong possible term , to make the Budget this autumn the final one in which business rate be a permanent feature . they should be scrap and replace with a commercial landowner levy . I urge the Labour Government to act on that as soon as possible . to make it even bad , we know that in many part of the country , where high street be not in a good state , there be small business that want to invest in good environmental thing . they want to invest in solar panel , insulation , ventilation and bike shed — thing that would be good for business and create a sense of community , tackle the climate emergency and improve the public realm . yet if they invest in those thing , their business rate can go up . that be absolutely nuts , and I urge all colleague to get behind my call to make the upcoming Budget the final one in which business rate be a permanent feature . the other point I will talk about be skill . the Government have talk a lot about invest in infrastructure , housing and big thing that we can build , but skill be so important . in my constituency , we have a phenomenal organisation call GEM Cable Solutions , a lead defence and aerospace company that make bespoke cable and fibre optic use precision manufacturing . that mean individual people make handmade cable that be fly thing into space — it be extraordinary . but can the company get the highly qualified engineer that it need in this country ? no , it often can not , because we be compete on the international stage for some of the fine engineering talent . at the same time , under the last government , the company could not get that talent from abroad either , so I urge the new Government to bring forward a skill strategy as soon as possible , consult with other party , and ensure that our small business can get those skill . my third point be about the climate job of the future . I know the UK Infrastructure Bank have be rebrande the National Wealth Fund , and have attract £ 7 . 3 billion in fund already . I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm whether the new wealth fund will have an explicit remit to support the UK ' s transition to net zero carbon emission . finally , it be no secret that Brexit have wrap up our small business in red tape , and that they be deal with ream of paperwork . we have to remove as many trade barrier to our small business as possible . I urge the Government to bring something forward on that front as soon as possible . I call Sarah Russell to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech . when I drive around my Congleton constituency , I thank my lucky star that I have the privilege of both live in and represent somewhere so very beautiful . it be make up of gorgeous rolling countryside , farmland , hedgerow and oak tree . the farmer work all hour to produce the food that we need . it have view of the giant radio telescope at Jodrell Bank and the natural beauty spot Bosley Cloud . it be Arcadia within commute distance of Manchester , Crewe and Stoke , and I can not tell the House how much I truly love it . the constituency be a grow place , with around 5 , 000 extra house in the last few year . the population be divide between the Cheshire market town of Alsager , Sandbach and Congleton , alongside the large village of Holmes Chapel , and many beautiful small village , such as Rode Heath , Church Lawton and Goostrey . there can be few more idyllic spot in the country than sit outside the Swettenham Arms next to the Lovell arboretum , overlook St Peter ' s , the archetypal village church . though each town and village have its own unique character and history , the joy and challenge experience by the family who live there be often remarkably similar . they include family whose child have special educational need and disability , who often face extensive challenge get the diagnosis and support that they need . those family need our help , and I will do everything that I can to assist they . I have be pleased to hear the Prime Minister refer repeatedly in this Chamber to those difficulty , and I be confident that he will help we too . family will also benefit from Labour ' s review of share parental leave . some 54 , 000 woman a year lose their job when they be pregnant or on maternity leave . woman actually out - earn man in their 20 . the gender pay gap be in many respect actually a motherhood penalty . man take long period of paternity leave be a way that we could normalise parental leave and potentially reduce those problem . I thank the Government for start the consultation on this matter imminently . I pay tribute to campaign group such as Pregnant then Screwed , Rights of Women , the Dad Shift , parent out Loud , and the TUC and trade union , which be all do incredible thing in this field . many homeowner in my constituency have be affect by leasehold and fleecehold problem , and will welcome our plan reform on these issue , to which I intend to contribute . they include old people , often the backbone of our community , who provide childcare for grandchild , and often volunteer as well . sometimes , however , they do so in avoidable pain while on NHS waiting list that be too long . those be just a few of the issue that I intend to apply myself to as MP for Congleton . let I take the House back to Congleton ' s history . Congleton be know as Beartown , owe to a local story that in the 1600 the town save up to buy a new Bible . shortly before the summer f ê te , the village bear die , so the townsfolk agree that rather than buy their Bible they would postpone the purchase and get a new bear with the money instead . Congleton be very entrepreneurial across the whole constituency , and many of our small business feature reference to the bear . it be also in our local iconography everywhere . we have the Beartown Tap and Beartown beer . the bear feature pretty much everywhere , as do our fantastic statue of Elizabeth Wolstenholme - Elmy , which be lobby and fundraise for by local feminist . Elizabeth , who base herself in Congleton from 1874 until her death in 1918 , play a significant role in the woman ' s suffrage movement , found the Women ' s Social and Political Union and campaign for woman ' s education and voting right . I hope that I shall think of she often in this place . another of our most famous local figure , although quite different , be Harry Styles , whose hometown of Holmes Chapel be now a point of pilgrimage for his fan . I be sure that everyone be sorry to hear today of the death of his former bandmate Liam Payne — we all extend our condolence to his friend and family . local people have set up a walk trail associate with Harry Styles . if anyone fancy it , I would strongly recommend follow it , with a stop in any of our local independent business on Holmes Chapel high street . I would probably include a drink at the George and Dragon or the Bottle Bank , or both . I know that both publican do a lot of voluntary work within our community . People volunteer be common in my constituency , as I know it be in the constituency of many other member . whether they be coach football at Vale Juniors or any of the other community sport club — there be too many for I to list — planting tree and conserve and maintain our woodland and footpath , as the Sandbach Woodland and Wildlife Group do , and as a similar group do in Congleton ; help young people through uniformed group such as scout , guide and the various air cadet , some of which I have visit ; run scheme to support man ' s mental health , such as the Goostrey Community Shed , Holmes Chapel Men in Sheds , or the new Sandbach man walk and talking group ; or even run a community energy power plant in Congleton Hydro , we have the most amazing set of citizen . I be so grateful for the fantastic contribution that they make to help other , support those who need it , and truly make my constituency the fantastic place that it be . on the topic of contribution , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Fiona Bruce . Congleton have have three mp in its history , all of they woman : Ann Winterton , Fiona Bruce and now I . I know that many Christians in the constituency and beyond appreciate Fiona Bruce ' s advocacy on behalf of the religious community , both in the UK and internationally , in her role as envoy for religious freedom . we have many active local church group in our community , and they contribute a great deal of very varied support . church and secular volunteer and organisation , include food bank , food pantry and the Old Saw Mill , be all quietly provide much - need food support within the community . they do this for a far large number of adult and child than the apparent affluence of the area would superficially lead one to expect . as a discrimination lawyer , and someone who go into politic because of the value that I place on equality and inclusion , I will continue to advocate for the right and freedom of all my constituent , and celebrate the diversity within our community . I recently attend the one World festival in Alsager , which be first establish by Margaret Keeling 30 year ago . it celebrate the diversity of nationality live within the Alsager community , with food , activity and lot of performance from local schoolchildren . it really be a delight — thank you , Margaret . another of the many achievement of the fantastic volunteer in my constituency be that we have regular Pride event . Congleton hold its first Pride about five year ago . I pay tribute to Richard Walton , Ronan Clayton and all those who be involve in set it up . it be now ably chair by Malcolm Pope , who be take it from strength to strength . the excellent curator Anna Maluk put on a Pride exhibition in Congleton Museum , host photo from those early event and feature art from the local LGBTQIA + community . since then , more Pride event have grow in Sandbach , Alsager and , for the first time this summer , Holmes Chapel . at one of these event , it be suggest to I that these be really just a family fun day — a village f ê te , if you will . it be true that the event be fun , fabulous and family - friendly , but beyond the live music and bright clothing there remain a serious message . the hard - work volunteer who make these Pride event happen do so in the face of repeat homophobic hate crime . similarly , there be still a backdrop of fear attendant in many woman ' s daily life . woman in my constituency have write or speak to I about their experience of sexual violence . I say to the young woman who have talk to I — you know who you be — that I will fight for you , and all young people , in this place every day . that will include ensure that , when embrace new technology and innovation , as we have do this week at the international investment summit , we find way of protect people from new threat — whether that be people look at tractor on their smartphone in this workplace , or artificial intelligence bake in discriminatory decision making . unfortunately , new technology also bring the potential for harassment , discrimination and abuse , and we must not be catch off guard — we must get on the front foot on that . my constituency have a long history of develop new technology . the constituency boundary bisect the site of Jodrell Bank , the amazing radio telescope . Sandbach be the proud home of ERF and Foden truck . the first Foden traction engine be build in Sandbach in 1881 , and that be follow by the production of heavy good vehicle for 150 year . the history and heritage of Foden still run through the blood of the town , with the annual transport festival and its incredible parade of vintage truck , wagon , classic car and even the odd plane on the common . my constituency be also home to one of the world ' s lead brass band , Foden ' s Band , which be bear out of the work in 1902 and have twice win , and twice be runner - up , in the national brass band championship of Great Britain . I will work across this House to stand up for the incredible , entrepreneurial and community - minded people and business of the beautiful place that be the Congleton constituency . lastly , I want to say some thank yous . I thank the volunteer who help I to get here and continue to support I , to whom I be very grateful . that include those from the Labour party , and I make special mention of the fabian Women ' s Network mentoring scheme . I thank my adore family , who be in the Public Gallery today . when I be in Westminster , I miss you so much . I hope I do all of you proud . I pay tribute to those who have make their maiden speech today . I think we all feel the passion and emotion in the beautiful speech by the hon . member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) . she have give I an idea : when I be out in Keston this weekend , I might recommend to the resident that we get ourselves a village bear — although I can hear my daughter recommend that we get ourselves a village Harry Styles ; that would probably be prefer . the hon . member for Ossett and Denby Dale ( Jade Botterill ) speak passionately about represent the place that she call home . the idea of " Pie Hard " be what I be look forward to — a Bruce Willis remake in the roll hill of Yorkshire would be most enjoyable . I congratulate both member on their maiden speech . I will continue be nice to the opposition — the Government ! yes , the government — I have pick up that habit from my hon . friend and I do apologise . I be impress by what have be achieve at the international investment summit . within week of allegedly receive the bad economic inheritance of any incoming government since the second world war , Labour have supposedly secure billion of pound of investment . that be frankly unbelievable , and not because I doubt our country ' s ability to attract investment . Britain be a tremendous place to invest , as a wealthy , free , fair and talented nation where people can do business and thrive . that be why Britain ' s foreign direct investment stock grow to more than £ 2 trillion throughout successive conservative government — more than France , Germany and Italy combine . my scepticism be about the idea that the Government , who appoint a Minister for Investment only four day before the summit , secure every penny of the investment . as anyone in business will tell we , the devil be in the detail , and a quick inspection will confirm that most of the investment be in progress thank to the last Conservative Government . let we look at clean energy , for example . Britain secure much of the investment that the Government claim credit for thank to a conservative policy : contract for difference . without that market mechanism , under which investor bid for a guarantee price , we would not have secure as much investment as cheaply for bill payer . it be why we have the world ' s four large offshore wind farm off our coast , why renewable generate 44 % of our electricity today compare with 7 % in 2010 , and why the UK be able to close its last coal - fire power plant this year . that be a conservative record , as much as Labour might envy it . the Government have do the easy bit in tally the figure and take credit for someone else ' s work . admittedly , that be a hard task when no . 10 be in such disarray and the Minister have only two day to prepare for the summit . in fairness , only time will tell if the summit be a success and the relationship build there lead to more investment beyond what be already on its way . but that be the hard bit , because to secure more investment and compete globally , Britain need to be light on regulation and low in taxis . although the Prime Minister talk about remove " needless regulation " and be " open for business , " his Government ' s action say otherwise . despite labour ' s explicit manifesto pledge not to increase national insurance , the Chancellor be draw up plan to hike the tax for employer . make no mistake : that would be a tax on job , and would make it more expensive for firm to hire , which would impact on business big and small , include in my constituency — from Bombardier in Biggin Hill to pub and caf é s in Hayes and the Churchill theatre in Bromley . the tax hike may fall on employer , but work people will pay the price as job opportunity shrink and pay rise be limited . the hand of business will be tie far by what the Government themselves brand the big increase in employment regulation in a generation . while the Government plan to tax job and pass french - style union law , a Cabinet Minister take a more explicit anti - business approach . the Transport Secretary admit that she have be boycott a ferry company for two and a half year , and encourage other to do the same . while the Prime Minister glad - handed investor — promise less red tape and openness to business , and be careful to mention tax only once — his Government be deliver exactly the opposite . Britain face a more significant problem : keep up as technology advance . lead on artificial intelligence , quantum , engineering biology or semiconductor be vital to our future prosperity and security , but we face considerable challenge in do so . for example , Britain be home to the large number of foundational model and generative Al start - up in Europe , but we lack the compute power that we need to build and run Al model . the previous Conservative Government recognise that problem and plan to build a new supercomputer in Edinburgh 50 time more powerful than our current top - end system , but Labour have now cancel that £ 800 million investment . that be yet another example of Labour ' s action not match its rhetoric . the Government can not be in favour of growth while cancel investment . they can not cut regulation while plan huge increase in red tape for employment . they can not support job while prepare to tax their creation . and they can not claim to have the bad economic inheritance while copy and champion the work of their conservative predecessor . if the government do not get their story straight , investor will almost certainly stay away . I call Callum Anderson to make his maiden speech . it be with deep humility that I rise for the first time in this House as the Member of Parliament for the new Buckingham and Bletchley constituency , and I be pleased to contribute to this debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Ossett and Denby Dale ( Jade Botterill ) and for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) on their excellent speech . their constituent be fortunate to have such formidable representative . I should of course begin my remark by pay tribute to my two direct predecessor . in Iain Stewart , this Chamber have a calm , measure advocate for the former Milton Keynes South constituency who , among other thing , consistently champion well transport connection for the city and the United Kingdom more broadly . I also thank the now hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , whose kindness and generosity I have value as I have navigate these early month in Westminster . they follow in the footstep of John Bercow , who serve as the Member for Buckingham for 22 year , and Dr Phyllis Starkey , who serve as the last Labour Member of Parliament for Bletchley , as part of Milton Keynes South , for 13 year . they all exemplify what it mean to be a dedicated public servant , and I will do my utmost to meet their standard . although Buckingham and Bletchley be a new constituency for this Parliament , it be in fact a reunion of old friend . for nearly a century , those community be connect as one , but in 1983 , Milton Keynes , along with Bletchley , have the temerity to split away and flourish into the formidable modern city that it be today . although the town of Buckingham , Bletchley and Winslow be different in character , all have deep - root , rich history . and between those town lie many village , breathe life into the heart of our constituency . be it Westbury , Quainton , Stewkley or Nash — I could go on — all contribute to the fabric of our collective identity , and I must never forget Tattenhoe in Milton Keynes . although each community be unique , they share common value : a deep sense of civic pride , patriotism and a belief that opportunity should be available to everyone if they work hard . I pledge to serve each of they with the same level of diligence , be they urban or rural and regardless of their size or affluence . one of the great privilege of represent Bletchley be that I carry the legacy of Bletchley Park and the remarkable codebreaker who work there in the 1940 . the ingenuity and tireless effort of those brave woman and man — include Alan Turing , a very british hero — who together uncover key strategic military plan of the Nazis , not only shorten the second world war and save countless life , but lay the foundation of today ' s technological age . that be why Bletchley Park remain an iconic institution of national and global significance , and why it be such a fitting host for the AI summit last year . that legacy of technology and creative thinking remain at Bletchley ' s core today . as we speak , the South Central Institute of Technology be inspire the next generation , provide young people with the skill to thrive in the digital age . the expertise do not end there : the University of Buckingham be innovate in high education , enable student to pursue accelerated degree and equip they with the agility and knowledge to navigate an ever - change world . just as Bletchley and Buckingham lead in education , Silverstone — of which the southern half of the track be locate in my constituency — lead on the world stage for motorsport . it convene the good driver , include our very own Sir Lewis Hamilton and Lando Norris , alongside cut - edge engineer , technologist and designer . Silverstone be where the pinnacle of innovation meet the thrill of competition , and inward international investment have be pivotal to achieve that status . from Formula 1 team to global technology giant , international investor be choose Britain because they see a country where creativity , innovation and entrepreneurship can flourish . but the value of international investment be not just financial ; it be also a vote of confidence in we — in our workforce , our infrastructure and our unique creative spirit . it strengthen our relationship with key global player , ensure that we continue to be the country that other seek out for collaboration , whether in emerge field such as artificial intelligence or establish one such as financial service and advanced manufacturing . that be why this Government ' s achievement in secure the commitment of £ 63 billion of private investment , 10 % of which will help turbocharge Britain ' s AI capacity , be so important . I congratulate my right hon . and hon . friend across Government on their hard work to secure that historic investment . but , Madam Deputy Speaker , the Buckingham and Bletchley constituency offer so much more . farmer and rural business across north Buckinghamshire work tirelessly to feed our nation , use the late method to produce high - quality food while safeguard our local environment , as I see at first hand when I meet the Edgcott and Winslow Young Farmers early this summer . I be committed to be their advocate in the House , ensure that they receive the support and recognition that they deserve . if the House will indulge I for a few more moment , I want to close my maiden speech by thank the people who believe in I and support I on my journey to this place . first and foremost , I owe an unpayable debt to my mother , who bring I up alone in a council flat and sacrifice everything to help her son reach height that neither of we could have dream of 33 year ago — be that the City of London or the home of our democracy — and whose simple value of hard work and quiet perseverance teach I that everyone have value and deserve respect . her example have be a guide light to I , and for that I will be forever grateful . there be so many other to whom I also owe so much , be they family member , my partner of 10 year , or my friend of 15 , 20 and 30 year — all of which I mention to warn my constituent that I generally invest only in the most long - term of relationship . it be on that note that I wish to address the young people in the town , village and city that comprise the Buckingham and Bletchley constituency : regardless of who your parent be , where you come from or what you look like , never stop believe that if you work hard , anything in Britain be possible . every moment I be grant in this place will be spend work towards ensure that you have the power to write your own life story and live the life that you have imagine for yourself on these island of our . that be the Britain I believe in , and the one I will be fight for . I call Sean Woodcock to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) on his powerful maiden speech . I be not sure that when he and I attend a Birmingham University Labour Students meet back in 2009 , either of we anticipate that we would be make our maiden speech in the same debate . I want to start by say what an honour it be to stand here as the Member of Parliament for Banbury . as a Banbury lad who have never seek to represent anywhere else , I want to repeat what I tell resident on the doorstep during the campaign : this be the job I have always want . to everyone who help make that happen , I can only say thank you . I also want those resident to know that now I have this job , I promise that I will work hard every day to deliver for they , whether they vote for I or not . what make this an even prouder moment for I be that I stand here as the first Labour Member of Parliament for the Banbury constituency . until 5 July , the constituency have remain in the hand of one party for 102 year . but change be something that Banbury — the large town in Oxfordshire — have get use to over recent year . for those who do not know , the Banbury constituency be at the furth point north in the south - east region , encompass not just the town of Banbury but the town of Chipping Norton and Charlbury , as well as countless village and rolling countryside . Banbury be a beautiful part of the world to live in and represent . it be most famous for our nursery rhyme , know across the English - speak world : " ride a cock - horse to Banbury Cross , to see a fine lady upon a white horse ; with ring on her finger and bell on her toe , she shall have music wherever she go . " Banbury ' s history be more than that , though ; indeed , it be more than just the town itself . the constituency reflect our country ' s history , include in its foundation and its landscape . we have the neolithic and bronze age Rollright stone ; the settlement on the edge of Chipping Norton leave to we by the Romans ; the Norman castle mound at Deddington ; and Broughton castle which , as well be a stunning late - medieval stately home , be likely to be recognisable to many member as the setting for tv ' s " Wolf Hall " , and the film " Shakespeare in Love " and " three Men and a Little Lady " . I be once tell that one of the only request to film there that the owner decline be when the studio want to paint it pink , which be probably wise . in the village of Wroxton , where I go to school , we have the former home of Lord North . he be also bury in Wroxton , give we something that not all constituency have : the rest place of a former Prime Minister . Bliss Mill , Tooley ' s boatyard and the Oxford canal be all remnant of the area ' s growth during the industrial revolution . but the most colourful time in our history be undoubtedly the civil war , when Banbury itself be on the side of the roundhead , despite its castle — right in the middle of the town — be on the side of the cavalier . the people of Banbury be so unmistakably puritan that a poem be write about it : " to Banbury come I , o profane one ! where I see a Puritane - one , hang of his cat on Monday , for killing of a mouse on Sunday . " more happily , " the Puritans " be the nickname for the only supporter - own football club in Oxfordshire , Banbury United . I mention all this not just because I be really proud of where I call home and its role in our past , but because I want the House to understand what the Banbury constituency be all about . although it do not change hand politically between 1922 and 2024 , change do come to Banbury in a big way . old industry such as make cloth in Chipping Norton or aluminium in Banbury go , while new one such as logistic with company such as DHL and TWE Haulage , food processing with Fine Lady Bakeries and go fresh , and high - end mechanical engineering with the Haas Formula 1 team and Prodrive come in instead . other industry , such as brewing , move within the constituency . we can no long get a pint in a Hunt Edmunds pub , but hooky beer from Hook Norton be on sale across the United Kingdom . the building of the M40 in many way permanently change Banbury from a small , semi - industrial market town into something completely different . thousand of new home have go up as our area have become increasingly attractive for commuter to Oxford and London , but we still have a council waiting list that have quadruple in a decade and a private sector that can not meet the need . meanwhile , vital infrastructure such as school , road and health service have fail to meet demand , pose fair question from the community for those , like I , who support the Government ' s ambitious house building agenda . while they have change , Banbury , Chipping Norton , Charlbury and the village of north and west Oxfordshire have not lose their sense of community . the community unite across political divide , and none , in defence of our local Horton General hospital when it be face with downgrading , successfully fight it off in 2008 and less successfully in 2016 . as the use of food bank grow in the year after 2010 , people across the area come together to help support those in need . for example , the Chippy Larder in Chipping Norton have become a much - love community resource . food security in Banbury can not be consider without mention our rural farming community and perhaps the most famous farm in the country : Clarkson ' s farm . for all the entertainment that the series have provide , for I the most important aspect of it be the light that it shine on the huge challenge face by our farmer , and not just in the Banbury constituency but throughout the UK . I hope that the Government ' s programme to support they will relieve many of the burden that have make farming so challenge for so long . southill Solar farm on the edge of the Wychwood forest near Charlbury provide community - own power to 1 , 200 home . that be another reason I be so passionate about this Government ' s exciting agenda on renewable energy . then there be the volunteer driver service in Banbury , take the elderly or those less able to hospital and GP appointment at nominal rate . throughout the pandemic , as in other place , people across Banbury work hard to help those less fortunate during that most testing of time . Banbury ' s community , lead by some of its many thousand of polish citizen , get together again to gather supply to support the ukrainian civilian flee that conflict , while welcome other into their home and community . on that note , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Victoria Prentis . although there be much in the campaign that we disagree on , this side of the House be unite with the conservative party in support for Ukraine . I pay tribute to Victoria ' s decency and her clear compassion for humanity , exemplify as much by she take a ukrainian refugee into her home as by her nine year of service to the community . as for myself , I stand here in support of this Government and their mandate for change — something that Banbury have a history of embrace . before I finish , I want to thank my family for their support , in particular my wife who , despite have multiple sclerosis , remain the strong , most steady and most stable woman I have ever meet . I stand here as someone Banbury bear and breed , ready to build a well Britain and a well Banbury , and I be determined to do it . I call Claire Hughes to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech today . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Ossett and Denby Dale ( Jade Botterill ) , for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) , for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) and for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) on their excellent contribution today — my thank to they all . it be the honour of my life to have be elect as the Member of Parliament for Bangor Aberconwy , and I offer my heartfelt thank to everyone who support I on my journey to this place : to my partner and my two kid , who I will not name — because my entry into the world of politic have already cause they enough embarrassment as it be — to my brother Mike , my sister Pam , my niece and nephew , and all my friend back home ; and to my dad , who be watch from the Gallery today , something that would never have be possible be it not for the incredible staff of Ysbyty Gwynedd , who have save his life on more than one occasion . I want to thank my incredible campaign team , my agent Jim Hoey and Ken Stevens . I also pay tribute to the late Councillor Bill Chapman , who be very sorely miss . without his encouragement much early in my career , I would not be here today . Bangor Aberconwy encompass the former constituency of Aberconwy , as well as part of what be Arfon and Clwyd West . I thank all three of my predecessor , and their staff , for all their work in the support of local resident . Robin Millar serve as the Member for Aberconwy from 2019 . I know that his work support hotelier during the pandemic be very much appreciated . David Jones serve as the Member of Parliament for Clwyd West and serve in the role as Secretary of State for Wales during his time here . Hywel Williams serve as the Member of Parliament for Arfon and the previous Caernarfon constituency for over 23 year — a Member who be and still be very well respect by the community that he serve . I also pay special tribute to Betty Williams , who serve as the Labour MP for Conwy from 1997 to 2010 . she be a real Labour legend who be still remember with huge fondness locally . if I can be half as good an MP as Betty be , I will be do okay . I have listen to many maiden speech and note that there be hot competition for whose constituency be the most beautiful in all the land — I be sorry , but game on ! Bangor Aberconwy include the seaside resort of Llandudno , the historic town of Conwy , Betws - y - Coed , Bangor pier , the Carneddau mountain , the Dyffryn Ogwen valley — too many beautiful place to name . I must , of course , mention my hometown of Penmaenmawr , which be the favour holiday destination of Prime Minister William Gladstone , and my adopt home of Llanfairfechan . I have notice , too , that it be customary to elaborate on one ' s political root — childhood memory of be drag along to party meeting or fold leaflet at the kitchen table — but I be afraid that be not I . politic be not really discuss in our house . for our family , direct action mean go out with a bucket and torch to rescue frog . largely thank to my mother , my formative year be spend bird watching , pond dipping , bat counting and on long mountain walk . my mum know the value of our natural world and how vital it be that we protect it . I will make it my mission in this place to do so in her memory . when I be 11 , my mum ' s life change . she enrol on an access course , do a - level , then graduate with a degree in botany — no mean feat with three young kid . the fact that she be able to access high education be testament not only to the last Labour Government , but to the grit and determination of work people in our community . to understand why be to learn the found story of Bangor University : 140 year ago tomorrow , on 18 October 1884 , Bangor University open its door to its first ever cohort of student . Bangor University , the first in north Wales , be not found by rich benefactor or philanthropist , but quarryman and farmer who believe in the transformative power of education . they set aside money from their wage every week because they know then , as we know now , that education be the way to get on in life . our story be one of resilience and of people who believe in support each other . all across Bangor Aberconwy , you will find incredible people who work hard day in , day out to support other in our community — people like Jaynie Black and the volunteer at Ty Hapus ; Gini Rivers and the Friends of Mostyn Street ; Brenda at Hope Restored ; the wonderful woman I meet last week at Dyma Ni Befriending ; Pobl I Bobl ; Maes Ni ; Hwb Ogwen ; our food bank , our church and our mosque ; and our town , city and community councillor . there be too many to mention , but we owe they all a huge debt of thank . Diolch o galon I chi gyd . [ translation : Heartfelt thank to you all . ] I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who be firmly on the side of work people . I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who be committed to break down the barrier to opportunity for young people grow up in community like our . and I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who understand that tackle the climate and nature crisis be not only the big challenge we face , but an opportunity for economic growth . the subject of today ' s debate be this week ' s record - break international investment summit . before come to this place , I spend my career work with start - up and sme , so I know how important economic and political stability be for business . under this new Government , Britain be truly the good place to do business , and there be huge potential in our corner of Wales ready to be unleash . we have a proud industrial history ; a wealth of talent in science and technology ; and wind , wave and mountain range . everywhere you look , you will find ingenuity and innovation , and community full of pride , purpose and potential . to finish , I be proud of our past and I be excited for our future . whether you live in Penmaenmawr or Pwllglas , Bangor or Bontuchel , Conwy or Cerrigydrudion , I will fight tooth and nail to bring investment to our area , while promote our Welsh language and culture , to make sure that our young people know that these opportunity exist and be for they . there be much to do , and it will not happen overnight , but I hope to do every single one of my constituent proud . Diolch . I call Jessica Toale to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the opportunity to give my first speech in the House as the new Member of Parliament for Bournemouth West . over the last few week , it have be an absolute pleasure to hear the excellent maiden speech of hon . member from across the House , include my hon . friend the Members for Ossett and Denby Dale ( Jade Botterill ) , for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) , for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) , for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) and for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) . I have to say that I have be absolutely blow away by the talent and dedication that all of these member have show . it give I lot of hope for the future , and I be honour , truly , to be serve alongside they all . it be no coincidence that I have choose to speak in the debate on the international investment summit today . although I be bear in the UK , I grow up overseas and be always extremely proud to be british . wherever I go in the world , people know what we stand for , and they be impressed with british leadership , excellence and expertise . wherever I go , people know about Britain ' s cultural contribution — from Harry Potter and Shakespeare to the Beatles and the premier league . this foundation , and my parent ' and grandparent ' encouragement to be curious about the world and to lend a help hand wherever I could , take I into a career in overseas development , live , travel and work in almost 100 country . not only do I have member of my family in the Gallery today , but I also have family friend from the United States , where we live for eight year . this foundation mean that Bournemouth be always at the heart of my life . my family live there now , and I have a very strong connection to the area from spend my summer there and get that much - need teenage freedom of be able to go to the beach with my friend , explore the town and explore the garden . sadly , it be not something that parent feel they can do any more . over the year , not only have the reputation of this country that I love so much suffer , but the pride that the people in Bournemouth feel in their town have fade , and this be a real travesty . do not get I wrong : I be still very resolutely proud to be british — for the record , I drive a Mini and I have two english bulldog — but this be what have catalyse I into this place to stand up for the people of Bournemouth West , with a real desire to rebuild the bond of community and to reignite the pride that we all have in our town and our country . I want to congratulate the Prime Minister , the Chancellor , the Business Secretary and all their team on the investment summit . this be Britain at its good : outward - look , active and engage on the world stage , and lead by our value and by our mission . and I know that all the billion of investment that have come in will benefit all area of the country — perhaps my hon . friend would like I to intervene ? yes , of course . I wonder whether she would be tempt to tell we about her favourite pub in Bournemouth — or whether there be any bear around . there be no bear , I be afraid , but I will get to that . Bournemouth will benefit massively from the innovation and investment that the investment summit have bring in . I know that my constituent will be keen to hear how our local business and our high street , and even their bill , will benefit from the summit . I want to take the opportunity to pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Conor Burns . he serve the constituency for 14 year , make it his home follow his election in 2010 . as well as serve as a Minister , Sir Conor be passionately dedicated to our local school , bring in investment for their improvement and improve opportunity for local young people — a tradition I be keen to continue . many hon . member will also know that Sir Conor be proudly devoted to the late Mrs Thatcher . in his own maiden speech , he stand in the same place that Mrs Thatcher stand to give hers , so perhaps the great tribute I can pay to he would be to continue that tradition in the same place here . I wish he all the good of luck in his onward endeavour . while he and I may have differ drastically in many of our view , we be here to provide a voice for the people of Bournemouth West in Parliament , and that be a role I will continue . I want to put on record my thank to the great people of Bournemouth West for give I that opportunity to do so under a Labour Government . Bournemouth be not natural labour territory , and I be really honour to have win the trust of the people of Bournemouth in become not just its first Labour MP , but its first female MP . that be a monumental sign of the real change we have see in the constituency that be affect it now and shape its future . yes , we be a beautiful seaside town , with white sand beach and picturesque park — and our hotel , hospitality and cultural venue , and english language school have attract people for generation to visit , but also to seek a well quality of life — but there be so much more . Bournemouth be a relatively new town , but part of my constituency such as Kinson be mention in the Domesday book . scratch the surface just a little bit , and you will find a grow and vibrant community of innovator and creative . we have world - lead graphic effect and post - production company . we have a vibrant community of small business and vibrant high street in Winton and Westbourne , with business that be integrate sustainability and also community into their business model . we have a burgeon tech sector , with leadership in fintech , gaming and active travel . we have two world - lead university and an excellent further education college , feed that ecosystem and make sure our young people be equip with the digital and creative skill they need to succeed in the 21st century — and I could go on . of course , there be challenge . like all seaside town , we have see our town centre decline . More than a decade of cut to public service have mean that people now struggle to get an nhs dentist . crime and antisocial behaviour be at the forefront of people ' s mind as , for I , be parent who will not let their daughter go into the town centre at night . Knife crime have destroy life , the housing market too often lock out young people and young family , and do not even get I start on sewage . but I feel hopeful about the future , and I feel hopeful because of the collective spirit that I see every day in my constituency , with people such as Fran and Jesse at the Henry Brown centre and Kerry and her team at the Bourne community hub work against the odd to build their community and transform life in neighbourhood such as West Howe and Alderney ; all the community group and resident group fight hard to improve their local area and campaign to protect our ancient heathland and our precious coastline ; and , of course , all of the business give it a go , get into our high street and the town centre , breathe life back into empty shop and revitalise our heritage building . this be all really exciting stuff and I know that , with a new mission - lead Government , our town can and will be the safe and thriving hub it once be . I know that kid in West Howe can and will have the same opportunity that our young people in Talbot Woods do to get a world - class education in their school , college and university . I want graduate who fall in love with Bournemouth to find great job and affordable housing so that they stay and build their life there . I want all of our business to thrive in the vibrant ecosystem that we be now develop , and family in Wallisdown to get the support they need in their school and not to worry about get a dentist or a doctor . all of our resident , regardless of age or income , should feel proud of their town and their local neighbourhood . three out of four people in my constituency at this general election vote for change . they do not all vote for I , but deliver that change be a responsibility I now embrace . I want to use it to build a well politic and a fairer future where everyone feel like they have a stake . so I be very excited and look forward to work with the brilliant people of Bournemouth West and our mission - lead Government to build the share future and reignite this sense of hope not only in our special seaside town , but across the whole country . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) on her wonderful maiden speech . I know that her international background and deep expertise in international development will add much richness to our new parliamentary Labour party , and I also believe that an international background be essential to enrich the perspective on our side of the House . in my previous life , before come into this place , I spend eight year interview the leader of international business , many of whom have long - stand commitment to investment in the UK , but who repeatedly tell I and my former colleague at the Financial Times that political instability be put they off make future investment . that be why I very much welcome the remark of our Minister on the international investment summit and the importance of the private sector ' s partnership with our Government . the 10 - year project that we have for national renewal , along with our 10 - year industrial strategy , show our commitment to long - term economic ambition and planning . I congratulate the organiser of the summit , which bring together more than 300 industry leader and secure more than £ 60 billion of investment . that be 60 % more than be raise last year , and it will create nearly 38 , 000 job , one of which be bring Elton John out of retirement . unfortunately , private investment in the UK since the global financial crisis have be much less " Rocket Man " , and more " tiny dancer " . over the last decade and a half , Britain have experience a much large slowdown in the growth of capital intensity than comparative country such as the US , France and Germany , and it be that , alongside our skill growth , which account for our productivity puzzle . I very much welcome the appointment of John Van Reenen , the wonderful LSE economist , to our Council of Economic Advisors . he have do important work on productivity in the UK , and he suggest that our post - financial crisis fall in productivity growth be primarily due to a large fall in capital accumulation . in other word , british worker be be hold back by low level of public and private investment , and that be what our government need to unlock to succeed in our growth mission . we will provide stability , but stability alone be not enough . in the 21st century we must do more to provide industry and business leader with the leadership that they require to navigate our increasingly complex geopolitical world , in which there be fragmentation of supply chain across the world , as well as the green transition . that mean an industrial strategy . I welcome the publication of our Government ' s industrial strategy early this month , and particularly the focus on life science as one of the key eight sector for investment . my constituency of Earley and Woodley in the Thames valley be a prime location for foreign direct investment , particularly in life science , and I be proud that the Thames valley be the fast grow region in the UK outside London . I congratulate the Thames valley chamber of commerce , with which I have already work in my first 100 day , on secure over the last decade more than 1 , 000 instance of foreign direct investment . we can measure the excitement of business and the private sector for our Labour Government by the amount of engagement I have already have from business in my constituency and through Thames valley chamber of commerce . the biopharmaceutical group Lonza , which be swiss in origin , receive a grant of £ 30 million over the summer to expand and relocate to my constituency in the Thames valley park , which be one of three business park in the area alongside Thames Valley science park and Green park . I recently meet Bayer , originally a german company , which employ hundred of people at its headquarters in my constituency , and contribute to crucial health and life science research in the UK . advancement in life science have fundamentally improve not just the economy and innovation of the UK , but the length and quality of life here and around the world . that be why I welcome the Health Secretary ' s mission to ensure that the NHS receive the cut - edge treatment be pioneer by company in my constituency and beyond . life science investment , if do correctly , can be a significant driver of growth and productivity — our central mission . I look forward very much to meet the Minster for Industry next week to discuss how we can give full range to life science company in our constituency , and to the clinical research take place in the Royal Berkshire hospital , which be at the forefront of much research in medical trial . that hospital will benefit greatly from private and public investment . business do not exist in isolation , and what make some country prosper be the strength of their institution . responsible and highly productive business wish to retain their skilled workforce , who require country with well - function public service provision , infrastructure and accessible housing . those company want political stability and a regulatory framework that work for business , worker , and the consumer . that be why Labour ' s pitch to business do not end with the international investment summit , but continue with legislation that the Government be pass , such as the Employment Rights Bill . provide the foundation for business to thrive mean fix the foundation of our economy and society , and that be what I be proud to say our Labour Government will do . I call Kanishka Narayan to make his maiden speech . Diolch yn fawr — thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the privilege of make my maiden speech in this House . I follow a long list of maiden speech and so I perhaps offer no novelty , but I will take the opportunity of offer familiarity . I come to this debate on the international investment summit have spend the last decade on the frontline of investment , back the inventor of artificial intelligence datum and wide software business across this country and the United States . I therefore know the cause with depth and personal experience , and in particular I know that no working - age person in this country have see a start - up go to the FTSE top 10 . in the United States , eight out of 10 have experience that . in the last decade of innovation , Britons in this country and in the Vale of Glamorgan have be deny the opportunity of shape their destiny . decline no more , because I know from speak to investor , include those at the summit , that they believe what I know with this Labour Government : change be on the way and have begin . my role have be to put the Vale of Glamorgan front and centre in that wave of change , but I start by also recognise the dual impact that change in this House always have . for every maiden contribution , there be a contribution that have be , and in my case I wish to recognise that of my predecessor , the right hon . Alun Cairns , Conservative MP for the Vale of Glamorgan for 14 year . in those 14 year Alun serve our constituency with sincerity . in fact , he be so sincere that I remember knock on door in Cadoxton in Barry with the good constituency Labour party in the country , only to have my hope dash by a lovely elderly lady who say , " I be go to be vote for Alun , the good Labour MP this town have ever have . " we all carry an inflated sense of our personal vote in this House , beyond our political allegiance , but in that moment I have to say that I feel and see one . I congratulate Alun on his service and wish he the good with the inevitable duality of change that we share , but I also commit to he some continuity in the service that he and his predecessor , the Labour MP John Smith , offer the constituent of the Vale of Glamorgan — and continuity also because the cause of Barry ' s development , which I know Alun initiate , will echo for year to come as my top priority too . I offer continuity because in fact the Vale of Glamorgan stand out for its continuity . there be continuity as the world centre of education . it be in Llantwit Major and St Illtud ' s church that the UK ' s first college be site , not only home to St Illtud , but also host to St David in the early sixth century . in be in Cowbridge in 1795 that one of the first Gorsedd of the Bards be host by Iolo Morganwg , since then a font of appreciation for the Welsh language , Welsh literature and Welsh poetry . there be continuity not just in education but in energy , with Barry be the world ' s powerhouse and the large coal export port in this country , and indeed the large in the world in 1913 , and with Aberthaw not just one of the most advanced power plant of its time , but now the host of my and my constituent ' future dream of a centre of excellence in green energy . alongside energy and education , there be continuity in the world ' s pinnacle of natural beauty — a title I will only share , perhaps , with my hon . friend the Member for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) , with our share Welsh background . my hon . friend from Dorset and Devon might have the Jurassic coast , but I confess that in the heritage coast of the Vale of Glamorgan we have every bit of the beauty and the history , and perhaps , for be a well keep secret , a bright future too . finally , there be continuity not just across education , energy and the beauty that we have , but in the heart and humour of the people of the Vale of Glamorgan . Barry be the town that host " Gavin and Stacey " , and in particular the heart and humour of Uncle Bryn , my favourite character , who when drive down the M4 blast out James Blunt song have be a personal inspiration to I each time I leave this esteemed Chamber for the even more esteemed comfort of Barrybados . I have see the heart of the community spirit across the Vale of Glamorgan in Big Bocs Bwyd , which be an initiative across school that start in Barry and now go beyond it , ensure that no child go hungry when they be learn . there be the real struggle and the fight that I see each week in the Vale Domestic Abuse Services in my constituency , fight the onslaught of violence against woman that we have see not just in the vale but across this country , and there be the powerful heart of the voice choir of Barry , Llantwit Major and Cowbridge , which be able to combine the pure heart of " Calon L â n " with the deep optimism of " the Greatest Showman " in one night . I come here with news of the heart and humour of the Vale of Glamorgan , but also to report its honest challenge . we have the honest challenge of Barry , where , when deliver medicine as a volunteer , I learn that the pharmacist be issue multiple of painkiller per patient , compare with the same pharmacist in Cardiff . we have the honest challenge of our beautiful farmland , where third and fourth - generation farming family be fight a great but difficult fight against the combine challenge of weather , disease and uncertainty . we have the honest challenge of the veteran of the Vale of Glamorgan , who be not seek the world , but simply seek a bit of public service for the exceptional national service they give we . money do not buy most thing in life . it do not solve most of our problem , but its absence and the deprivation entrench over the last decade be at the root of many of they . in particular , that have chip away at the dignity of my community . that be why I come here with the twin ambition of great prosperity and a deep bond of dignity in the Vale of Glamorgan and across the UK . I do so not as a political slogan or out of political theory , but out of a history of personal gratitude , because it be 22 year ago that the Vale of Glamorgan and south Wales , include Cardiff , offer a newly arrive set of parent the opportunity of a minimum wage and a night shift to subsidise the sleep of their young boy . in the absence of any holiday , it be Barry island that first give those two young boy the opportunity of relief , and perhaps even some delight , over the weekend . it be south Wales , where I grow up with my brother in a situation of particular economic stress , where I feel , through the deep privilege of education , that I could go on to advise the Prime Minister and the civil service , to advise FTSE board across the City , to invest in tomorrow ' s inventor and ultimately to stand before the House as Wales ' s first Member of Parliament from an ethnic minority background . when I stand for my twin ambition of prosperity and dignity for the vale , I will do so out of that personal history of gratitude . for as long as I serve as the vale ' s voice here in Westminster , I will fight each day for the people in my community . I congratulate all my hon . friend on their deeply eloquent and move maiden speech this afternoon . it be a real pleasure to be in the Chamber to hear they . I take this opportunity to commend those on the Government Front Bench for a successful , record - break investment summit early this week . the investment of £ 63 billion represent a real vote of confidence in this Government ' s mission to grow our economy . I welcome in particular the announcement this week of a five - year programme of investment at stansted airport , which be a major employer in our constituency of Hertford and Stortford . that programme total £ 1 . 1 billion , include a £ 600 million investment in an extension to the airport ' s exist terminal . that investment in the east of England ' s large single - site employer will not only provide an even well passenger experience , but help to connect our region ' s innovative sector and creative industry with their international partner . in Bishop ' s Stortford , Stansted airport be right on our doorstep , provide employment for around 1 , 500 resident in our town and surround area . that contribute roughly £ 140 million in gross value add to our constituency . the terminal extension alone represent up to 5 , 000 additional on - site job , offer further employment opportunity for our resident and strong rail and bus link to our constituency , mean that even more commuter will be able to take public transport to work . on that point , I welcome the recent Department for Transport announcement that contactless payment will be roll out on the stansted airport line in 2025 . that will allow resident at Bishop ' s Stortford and Sawbridgeworth station to make use of tap in , tap out payment for the first time . that be an important step in improve rail travel for the many who rely on it in our constituency . the House may already know that stansted airport be the only major airport in this country with a purpose - build , on - site technical skill college , but I will tell the House more . stansted airport college offer vocational training opportunity to young people in our community , and it be deliver record number of apprentice student into employment in aviation , help to fill urgent skill gap in the sector with our local talent . under this government , I want Hertford and Stortford to be an even well place to live , work and learn . the investment promise to open new door for our resident to new opportunity to gain skill for life and find meaningful work . it be also a clear signal that under this government , Britain be once again open for business , and I hugely welcome it . I join in the congratulation of colleague who have make excellent maiden speech , include my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) . I be only sad not to hear the name of her bulldog and perhaps even her Mini . my hon . friend the Members for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) and for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) give such important mention of their mum in their life . I congratulate the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) on this record - break £ 63 billion of investment . it be a sign of the confidence in the british economy and this Labour Government . it be more than double the amount commit at the last Government summit and be set to create nearly 38 , 000 job across the UK , include in Scotland , with £ 2 . 5 billion commit for Green Volt , Europe ' s large float wind project , to develop its north - east Scotland site . Iberdrola announce it be double its investment in the UK through Scottish Power from £ 12 billion to £ 24 billion over the next four year . as a former trade commissioner , I thank my former colleague in the Department for Business and Trade and in market such as India for the incredible work they will have be do to achieve that investment . I well remember the beaver away and constant phone call to major investor at such moment . have be at the last summit , I be sure my invite to this one be lose in the post . I know from my time in India that international investor be already begin to price in the benefit of a change in government . they see a Labour Government as a source of stability and predictability and the UK become a place for long - term , safe investment . that be the stability dividend that my hon . friend the Minister have already speak about . I just say that the £ 63 billion , while a record sum , be not enough for Scotland . we have see significant investment in the first 100 day , but we would like to see even more come north of the border , and in particular to community such as mine in Ayrshire . my hon . friend the Members for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Elaine Stewart ) , for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) and for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) be keen that increase investment in Ayrshire be at the forefront of Ministers ' mind . for the first time in 10 year , we have four Ayrshire Labour mp commit to growth and investment and a Labour Government who can deliver it . my hon . friend and I be work with the three local authority chief executive and the excellent principal of Ayrshire college to develop that " Invest in Ayrshire " proposition , and we be look at the opportunity for our region and our skill gap , because 14 year of the Tories and 17 of the SNP have let community in Ayrshire down . our town be promise funding by the last Conservative Government and we , like other community promise that town funding , be lobby the Minister for Democracy and Local Growth , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) . we want the town of Irvine and Kilmarnock prioritise , but we know that other hon . friend will be make similar case . we need to see a mix of public and private investment in our town to deliver the change that our community need . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Scotland be also work closely with we so that we can ensure that the Ayrshire growth deal meet the real current and future need of the Ayrshire economy . in the thousand of conversation I have during the election campaign , it be clear to I that job , investment and growth will be the most significant change this Labour Government can bring to community across Ayrshire . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade visit Prestwick airport during the election campaign , for which I be grateful , and he will remember that Prestwick be Scotland ' s aerospace hub , with 55 % of Scotland ' s aerospace sector job . that sector already attract international investment , but we want to do much , much more . similarly , we be look at GB Energy and this government to drive further green investment in Ayrshire . we want to see part of that green energy supply chain come to Ayrshire . we have a positive story to tell about transform our coalfield into clean power field , and we be proud to host our fair share of wind farm , which play a significant role in ensure the Government meet their commitment to double onshore wind energy by 2030 . we have also see investment in company such as XLCC , a subsea cable manufacturer , which have secure £ 87 million from the UK Infrastructure Bank to invest in the development of new subsea cable factory in the scottish town of Hunterston , which be once home to nuclear power in Ayrshire . that industry be now on the way out , because of the fail policy of the SNP , which include a nuclear - free Scotland rely on English nuclear . I note that , once again , SNP Members be not in the Chamber in an important debate for Scotland ' s economy . when Torness in Scotland stop generate , and if no replacement capacity be build , the power generate in England when there be low wind output — as on Monday this week , for example — will be need to maintain supply in Scotland , and it will be significantly base on nuclear energy . I be pleased that the last labour leadership of North Ayrshire council welcome the opportunity to restart the conversation with the nuclear industry in Ayrshire , because the job and investment that the industry could bring would be significant . with Ardagh Glass , Irvine continue to be a major centre for glass manufacturing — another industry that benefit from stability and predictability in policymake and that be look to make a significant investment in the green transition . to conclude , I hope my right hon . friend the Secretary of State see that there be significant opportunity for great investment in Ayrshire and will ask her brilliant colleague in the Office for Investment to prioritise work with my colleague and I to make that investment happen . I start by note that we have on the Government Front Bench two Ministers who split their time between Departments . one be at the Treasury and the Department for Work and Pensions , and the other be at the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Department for Business and Trade . that just go to show that we have a join - up , mission - lead Government who be try to move away from work in silos and to have a shared ambition , and that be to be commend . we be here today to talk about investment , which be obviously about money , but it be also — I would not want to lose this — about people . it be about skill , expertise , experience , opportunity for learning , well job , dignity at work , feed family and enable the maximum amount of prosperity . we should hold on to those thing , because they be what our constituent want and what they send we to this place to deliver . that say , investment be also about the money . the £ 63 billion truly be a record - break amount , and I commend our mission - lead Government for secure it . it be the clear sign that global business be back the british economy and work people under this new Labour Government . that money could have go elsewhere , but it be come to our country , for all the reason I just describe . it be come here because the country vote for change to achieve stability . in the last 14 year , we have have little to no growth , with billion of pound of taxpayer ' money waste and a huge black hole in our finance . the country be leave vulnerable to the bad cost of live crisis in a generation , and our Government be force to spend £ 94 billion on household support because we be so expose to fossil fuel . that be why I be particularly pleased that so much of this investment be go towards clean energy . for example , some of the £ 2 billion from Octopus Energy will be use to build four new solar farm across Bristol , Wiltshire , Essex and the East Riding of Yorkshire , power up to 80 , 000 home . those investment will improve our local economy and community . I feel sad and wrong say this , but we have be talk about Elton John , and nobody else have make the inevitable point : sorry seem to be the hard word , but we be not hear it say , either in jest or in sincerity . as I look at the Opposition Benches , which be desert , I wish that conservative could speak up on behalf of british business — [ interruption . ] I do apologise to the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) . perhaps he will find the hymn sheet to sing from — the one about be in favour of british business and investment . perhaps he will also say sorry , much as it be the hard word — I have say that twice now . as I say , neither this debate nor these investment be just about the money . hopefully , nearly 38 , 000 people across the UK , include in my home of Bournemouth East , will begin new job as part of the green transition that our country so desperately need and that our industrial sector have be cry out for . to that end , I very much welcome the publishing of the Government ' s Green Paper on their 10 - year industrial strategy , which we have already hear about . in the short time I have be a Member of Parliament , the Government have commit to strengthen Britain ' s industrial base — in both the service and manufacturing industry — to create good , well - pay job in not only the green sector we have today but those of the future . with the right policy , the Government can supercharge investment in clean energy industry across the UK , from the industrial heartland of the north to the thriving finance sector in Bournemouth . this be about more than just create green job ; it be about the revitalisation of entire region and ensure that every corner of our country benefit . I have be fortunate this week to spend time with investor , business and work people at three event in London , and the relief be palpable . I have listen to investor talk about how they have be hold on to money because they have be crave regulatory certainty ; planning reform ; the building of home for their worker ; an NHS that can fix those worker , who they need at their workplace but who be at home unwell , because of mental ill health , musculoskeletal problem or bad ; and the certainty from Government that would remove the barrier to growth , so that the investment they make extract a dividend for not just their company but our wide economy . when member hear that the investment we be talk about be line up before the general election , they should not believe it . it come forward after the general election , because business now have a Government who be commit to put in place the infrastructure and change need for our economy to grow now and into the future . we know the benefit of action , and we know the cost of inaction , because we be bear those cost now . work together , Government , investor , work people , our trade union , and business will achieve energy independence and security . we will achieve fall and low bill . we will achieve good job and pride in our community . together with our mission - lead Government , we will achieve a grow and improve economy and way of life . I now call the shadow Minister , Gareth Davies . I thank all those who have speak in today ' s debate . it be right that I recognise the contribution that have be make from both side of the House , but especially those make by member make their maiden speech . we all remember the moment lead up to and during our maiden speech , and it still give I chill to this day . let I say to the hon . member for Ossett and Denby Dale ( Jade Botterill ) that I hope her mother be enjoy see the bright light of London for the first time . I know she will be very proud of her daughter . I wish the hon . member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) well with she campaign on parental leave . we all regret the time we spend away from our family , but it be for a life of purpose and a worthwhile cause , as hard as it be . I have the pleasure of meet the hon . member for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) before he be a Member of Parliament . I hope that , as the Member of Parliament represent Bletchley , he can crack the code to the success of this place . the hon . member for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) give an excellent speech , and he will be a great local champion for Banbury . I appreciate the comment he make about my former colleague and his predecessor . the hon . member for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) will no doubt be busy in this job , but I hope she will still find time for frog search . finally , the hon . member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Kanishka Narayan ) give an incredibly impressive and excellent speech . he go to one of our fine school , study philosophy , politic and economic at Oxford and later attend Stanford University in California , which , by the way , have some quite impressive alumnus . I be sure he have a bright future in this place , although he should be prepare for many of his Labour colleague to constantly suggest that he be desperate to return to California at the early opportunity . all jest aside , let I say genuinely from the outset that it be right that we welcome this Government ' s build on the strong foundation for international investment in our country . as of July — a randomly pick month — the UK be Europe ' s leader for new foreign direct investment project for a third successive year , with the high total number of project in the past five year . the most recent official figure show that the UK rank second only to the United States for greenfield FDI overall , while lead the world in investment into our renewable sector . that be one of the reason why we have achieve the fast decarbonisation of any developed country in the world , and we should be proud of that . that be down not just to those who be elect but to official who work day in , day out to support government : those in the Office for Investment , the Treasury , the Department for Business and Trade , and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , and our many trade commissioner , who help drive our effort to attract significant pool of investment capital from across the world . this have be a good week for investment into our country — [ interruption . ] it really have . it be important that we recognise the cross - party heritage of this week ' s summit , which I be sure the Minister will acknowledge when she stand up . Labour have carry forward good idea that we conservative either implement or start in government . the Government deserve credit and I be very happy to give it , because this be , in the end , a fine follow - up to the global investment summit pioneer this time last year . our cross - party collaboration do not end there . in many case , this Labour Government have announce or re - announce investment that be negotiate or even agree by their conservative predecessor . I guess some thing sound so good that they be worth repeat . as my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) — who have make a timely entrance to this Chamber to rapturous applause — highlight , more than half the investment that the Government announce be actually announce before the general election . that include the £ 10 billion commit by Blackstone , which be announce in April , and the £ 8 billion commit by Amazon , which be negotiate by my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor . I could mention BW Group , which be announce in 2021 , or CyrusOne , which be announce in 2022 . whatever the origin , more private investment clearly benefit the british people , contribute to more job , well productivity and strong growth . we can all agree on that point , and it should not be take for grant . I commend the speech by my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , a relatively new Member , who highlight the importance of not be complacent about that , and in particular ensure that regulation remain low . as I say at the beginning , I commend member for all the contribution to this debate , maiden or otherwise , that rightly recognise the importance of private investment in our economy . however , we need to face the fact that this summit have be overshadow by a rather large elephant in the room . as the Transport Secretary know all too well , many investment decision be provisional and dependent on an economic environment that welcome and support investment . since Labour have take office , thank to all the doom and gloom , make - up black hole and submission to the union , business and consumer confidence have fall and the cost of borrow for the British Government have rise . we have have 100 day of self - contradiction and uncertainty . even in just a few month , this Labour Government have promise public investment while cut capital expenditure , fret over a suppose black hole while fritter away billion on pet project and union paymaster , disavowed red tape while smother small business in new regulation , and pay lip service to fiscal responsibility while lay the ground to fiddle the financial rule . meanwhile , almost every single revenue - raise policy in the labour manifesto have prove pretty much worthless , just like its promise not to raise national insurance . the rest of we be leave wonder , and continue to wonder : if I make a successful investment , how much of the return will I be able to keep ? if I take on a new employee , how much tax will I need to pay for the privilege ? if I increase my worker ' pay , what will the total cost be ? if I save for the future , will the Government help themselves ? if I pass on the business I build all my life to the next generation , will they be penalise ? if £ 1 billion be jeopardise by bad labour commentary , £ 63 billion can be jeopardise by bad labour policy . investment and economic growth be not simply convene ; they take concerted effort , not contort fiscal signal . some have question whether have the summit before the Budget be put the cart before the horse , but my worry be that , come Budget day , the horse will already have bolt . I wonder , in the event that the Budget backfire , will the Prime Minister be force to disown or defenestrate yet another member of his top team , to avoid take responsibility himself — sacrifice someone else on the altar of self - service ? as have be say before , Labour ' s chaos might be in my party ' s interest , but it be not in the national interest . I want to see the promise of these investment fulfil . labour must not put they at risk . let we build on the success of our country ' s economy and push up business that want to succeed , not pull they down when they do succeed . I be afraid that as long as this chaos , scandal and uncertainty continue , I will not hold my breath . the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) be do so well . [ laughter . ] he be do so well in the first half of his comment and then he return to the same old tired line that get the Conservatives defeat in the general election . I be so pleased to be close this debate today , which in a parliamentary context draw to a close a hugely positive and successful week for the United Kingdom . I thank all hon . member who contribute to the debate . I be disappointed that only one Conservative MP manage to make it here to speak in the Chamber and that nobody from the SNP manage to come . I be surprised that they be not here to welcome the week we have have so far . the Prime Minister make this Government ' s guide mission clear from day one : we will go for growth at every opportunity , and we be do that in spade . a week ago today , we launch our landmark Employment Rights Bill to create more secure employment and a happy and more productive workforce . on Monday , we launch our industrial strategy Green Paper , something business have be cry out for , which lay strong foundation for 10 year of growth and investment in our most important sector . also on Monday , the Prime Minister host some of the world ' s big investor to show they why , under this growth - drive Government , UK plc will be a blue - chip company that they should invest in . as be mention , Elton John be there to speak . I should tell the House that he take no fee — he take no fee . he want to come and celebrate with we the commitment of company from across the world come to the UK . before I talk a bit more about the investment summit , I want to pay tribute to the Members who speak today , in particular those who make their maiden speech . as someone who well up quite often and quite easily , this be a difficult debate for I . there be many moment when we look up at the Gallery and see parent and other family member wipe tear from their eye . it be lovely to see . I love the motto of my hon . friend the Member for Ossett and Denby Dale ( Jade Botterill ) . work hard and talk straight be a great motto for this new Government . my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) give we a wonderful tale of her constituency and its people , include a slightly odd story , I have a say , about Beartown . [ Laughter . ] but there we go ; that ' s Congleton ! my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) give a great speech , tell we about the importance of Bletchley Park and its influence not just in world war two but on the technical age we be in today , and talk about the advanced manufacturing in his constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) be a Labour Student . I do not know how many member of the Cabinet be Labour Students — I be not — but it be quite a good stomping ground for future Cabinet member . he pay wonderful homage to the people and the place of Banbury . Diolch to my hon . friend the Member for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) for an incredibly beautiful speech about her constituency , its proud industrial history , and the ingenuity and innovation that it still show . my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) speak without note and make a really impressive speech . the passion with which she want to reignite pride in her town and in our country be very well understand . my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , who have incredible experience , not least work at the Financial Times , talk about the life science in her constituency and how important they be . I look forward to meet she next week to talk about that more . my hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Kanishka Narayan ) also speak without note . he speak lovely word about his predecessor , tell a lovely story about the history and beauty of his constituency , and pay tribute to his constituent . many of we have spend many happy day in Barry island — I certainly have . at the investment summit , £ 63 billion of investment be announce , more than double what be raise at the Opposition ' s summit last year . Iberdrola double its wind energy investment in the UK from £ 12 billion to £ 24 billion ; there be £ 10 . 5 billion from Orsted and Greenvolt , and more than £ 200 million from SeAH Wind . there be £ 8 billion for carbon capture , which will create 4 , 000 job and support 50 , 000 ; £ 2 billion from Octopus Energy and £ 1 . 3 billion from Macquarie for solar project ; £ 6 billion of new money for data centre , on top of the £ 10 billion recently commit by Blackstone and £ 8 billion from Amazon ; £ 1 billion for DP World ' s London Gateway , and £ 200 million for a new freight ferry terminal at the Port of Immingham ; more than £ 300 million for holtec ' s advanced engineering plant in South Yorkshire ; £ 500 million from BMW Group for battery energy storage ; more than £ 2 billion for rail and air project from Network Rail and Manchester Airports Group respectively ; and £ 400 million for life science and healthcare innovation . moreover , our fantastic Imperial College London will put £ 150 million into a new R & D campus . on top of these transformational investment , we have prove our credential as a pro - business Government . thank to the Chancellor ' s announcement that the UK Infrastructure Bank would be turn into the national wealth fund , we be catalyse ten of billion of pound of private investment into the UK ' s clean energy and growth industry , include green hydrogen , carbon capture and gigafactorie . we be establish an industrial strategy advisory council , lead by Clare Barclay , to help deliver the pro - business environment on which our industrial strategy will depend . we be create a british growth fund that will fuse pension investment and venture capital market . we be expand the Office for Investment to ensure that international investor receive the information and guidance they need to invest in Britain , and we be cut red tape to remove redundant reporting requirement , while make it easy for company to re - domicile themselves in the UK — and all this within 100 day of our take office . from more right for a more productive workforce , to a pioneer industrial strategy for our sector of the future , to score of investment worth ten of billion of pound , this Government be deliver change . the last government ' s scattergun approach to growth leave our country starve of investment , economically divide and struggle to maintain our competitive edge in the global economy . growth be anaemic ; wage growth flatline on their watch . Productivity be down ; the gap between France , Germany and the United States double since 2008 . we see the low investment share as a percentage of gdp in the G7 , and we rank 27th out of 30 in the OECD last year . that be on top of the state of the public finance that the Conservatives leave we , with public service starve of investment , million of day of work lose to strike action , and rocket debt . however , in just 100 day this Government have already lay down the blueprint for 10 year of growth through our big and most innovative sector ; secure £ 63 billion in new investment that underline our potential as a world leader in renewable energy , life science , technology and clean growth ; and bring forward a raft of reform to create a happy , more secure and more productive workforce . the Minister be make a very interesting and important speech , and she have set out exactly what this Government be do to benefit my constituent . could she find some time to meet I so that we can discuss how together we can ensure that the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme and Staffordshire more widely can benefit from the investment secure at the summit this week ? I be always happy to meet and to talk about what more we can do in our next 100 day , and indeed — we hope — our next five to 10 year in government . some conservative Members have question whether some of these investment be tee up under the last government . they know perfectly well that business confidence can rapidly change investment decision . all the announcement include be of new , firm commitment be make by company to invest in the UK either when final investment decision have be take or when announcement have be accelerate or unlocked because of action take and support provide by this Government . I be sure that Conservative Members will have see the letter , publish in the Times at the start of the week , from five of the world ' s big bank , join by private equity firm , insurer and tech giant , say that it be " time to invest in Britain " , and that Britain ' s " great stability " have increase its attractiveness to investment , which be of course a reference to labour ' s decision when we take office . they conclude : " we be optimistic about the future of the economy , and believe it be time to invest in Britain . " the fact that score of investor attend our summit on Monday , with ten of billion of pound be firmly committed to new project , show that under this Labour Government , business and investor have a great deal of confidence in our growth mission . the Minister be talk about confidence , but if confidence be rise , can she explain why the Institute of Directors have state that confidence have go from plus 30 in June to minus 7 today ? the shadow Minister know that we be work very closely with business , business organisation and other to ensure that the change we bring in grow our economy . we have huge confidence from a raft of people . for every quote the hon . Gentleman can find , I can find 10 that say the opposite . he can pick on one if he want to , but I suggest that £ 63 billion do not lie . let we not forget that our summit on Monday be organise in a matter of week . the conservative party have two year between their investment summit , yet we secure double the amount of investment compare with its summit last year . to respond to a couple of other point , the Lib Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , rightly mention business rate . we be look at that and will deliver on the commitment in our manifesto . she be right to raise skill , which be a huge challenge for we . we see huge opportunity for growth across the entire country but we must ensure that we have the skill landscape , which be why we be set up Skills England . she also talk about the national wealth fund and its ability to crowd in funding for the green sector and green technology ; it absolutely will do that . to summarise , across the House we be unite in the belief that Britain need to facilitate growth . let we face it , we have be severely starve of it . only through growth can we keep taxis low for work people , invest in our public service and create secure , well - pay , high - skilled job . of course , this be against a backdrop of the poor economic inheritance leave by the Conservative party , who lurch repeatedly from Prime Minister to Prime Minister , give we seven growth plan in 14 year , make million of people pay the price of a Trussonomics Budget and saddle the people of Britain with a low - growth , low - productivity , low - investment economy . the step that this Labour Government have take in just 100 day show that we be overturn the Conservatives ' legacy of inaction , stagnation and deterioration , and create a country of stability , innovation and prosperity . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the International Investment Summit . Telegraph Poles : Planning Permission Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I know that a number of colleague have experience similar problem in their constituency to those I will be raise , and I will try to accommodate intervention . I welcome the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , to his place . I be sure hon . member from all party welcome his statement in July : " we fully understand people ' s concern about the excessive deployment of telegraph pole , and be urgently consider option to address this . " as time be short , I will focus on the current absence of a requirement to consult resident under the legislative and regulatory regime that minister have inherit . this be not about be against telegraph pole , nor be it about be against the roll - out of fast broadband . new infrastructure be vital in a society that be increasingly dependent on fast and reliable internet service . however , surely it be wrong that when pole be site inappropriately , recourse for resident be advisory only , and , in many case , completely lack in practice . official statistic suggest that in my Birmingham Northfield constituency , almost 99 % of resident have access to superfast broadband . I know that Ministers have some scepticism about the accuracy of those figure , but it be undeniable that broadband coverage be well than in neighbour rural area , yet urban area be the current focus for the roll - out . the case for the change in 2013 that establish the current permit development regime focus almost exclusively on the need to extend superfast broadband to rural area and new - build estate . little to no consideration appear to have be give to how the legislation would impact already build - up , urban area . the consequence be now be see in south Birmingham , as some resident be leave to accommodate pole that be unwanted , unneeded and obtrusive . rise — rise — I will give way first to my near neighbour . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and it be much need . as he say , many of our constituent already have excellent broadband , so telegraph pole should be strategically prioritise in rural area . in one of my street alone , there be five pole . I have previously ask the Government how many pole they think be acceptable . do he agree that this be not the way that provider should behave ? I know that my hon . friend have be do extensive work on this issue . there be similar problem in my Birmingham Northfield constituency , and I would be sympathetic to have different approach in rural , semi - rural and build - up urban area , precisely because of the issue she raise . I thank my hon . friend for organise this excellent debate . telegraph pole be a key issue in my Halesowen constituency . my constituent support the roll - out of high - speed broadband , but they be concerned about the installation of telegraph pole in area that do not previously have they . community engagement have not be do well — I give the example of the Squirrels estate in my constituency , where a recent campaign , which I support , be successful in stop a company roll out telegraph pole in an area that do not have they . the resident ' major concern be about the use of underground ducting . do my hon . friend agree that if there be accessible infrastructure underground already , broadband provider should use that ? the Government should change the regulation so that provider be able to share the infrastructure , even if they be competitor . I thank my hon . friend for make those point . he highlight issue that be common across the wide region and , I suspect , the country . I will come on to some of the regulatory change that could be make , but it be important to recognise that there be a requirement for company to share infrastructure wherever possible . however , I will discuss some of the case in my constituency where that clearly be not happen . I want to draw attention to some of the problem in my constituency . I recently attend a resident ' meeting in a street in Birmingham Northfield call Pineview , a quiet cul - de - sac that be set back from a busy road . the community be close - knit , and over the year , the resident have invest their time and a considerable amount of money to ensure the upkeep of the area . they have live with underground telecommunication infrastructure , which serve different operator , and they have experience a positive service . however , resident report that four telegraph pole be instal on the road last year , start early in the day and finish late at night , with intrusive spotlight to facilitate the work . there be very limited community engagement , despite the resident take up the company Brsk ' s suggestion that a petition be collect . that be do , but to no effect . I also draw attention to Lovell close in Weoley . it be another small cul - de - sac , with only half a dozen house and narrow pavement , but activity by two compete company be now cause obstruction for resident and user of an adjoining public park . the hope that the infrastructure would be share be not be observe in practice , and there be ongoing problem with pavement parking across south Birmingham . I know that Transport Ministers be look separately at this issue , but the fact be that the combination of pavement parking and the loss of pavement space to pole have create obstruction and pinch point . this be a particular problem for those with pram and mobility scooter . there be also problem in the Bournville conservation area , which I discuss recently with the Bournville Village Trust . I place on record my thank for the local representation that have be make to I in advance of this debate by Councillors Esther Rai , Miranda Perks and Jamie Tennant in my constituency , and Liz Clements and Fred Grindrod in the neighbouring ward of Bournville and Cotteridge . I also want to mention the work do on this issue by my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) — as she say , she be address the same problem in her constituency — and my other constituency neighbour , my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) . as a Front Bencher , he be unable to speak in this debate , but I know that he be address the same problem and have write to Ofcom on this matter . in Stourbridge in the west midland , we face similar problem with the same company , which be cause havoc . as my hon . friend rightly say , the legislation be pass in 2013 , yet in 2024 , we be still wait for the full roll - out of ultrafast broadband . although I appreciate what he say about our current adequate speed , they could be much fast . when I be recently in Ukraine , I experience far well internet connectivity than I do in central London or Stourbridge town centre . our european neighbour be enjoy much fast broadband while we languish behind , and stourbridge resident have be leave at the mercy of these third - party company — order — [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady might like to sit while I be stand . I have previously tell Members that intervention should be short and spontaneous . it be not an opportunity to read out a pre - prepare speech . if she want to speak in this debate , she could have ask permission from both the Minister and the Member in charge , and that would have be acceptable . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I completely agree with my hon . friend the Member for Stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) . I will be brief , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) about engagement . I be hold a letter that resident receive from my predecessor , contain the promise from the company involve in roll out these pole in Inkberrow that the work would initially be do underground . lo and behold , a couple of week later , pole appear and work be carry out late into the night . re - establish co - operation and engagement with the community be vital to regain trust . I completely agree with my hon . friend , who make his case well . this be not about say that there can never be telegraph pole , as there be some area where they be clearly the right solution . however , there must be a proper process , and company can not be leave to mark their own homework . he highlight well the issue in his constituency . one of the few requirement place on network operator be to provide 28 day ' notice in write to the local planning authority when they propose to put up a pole . that be a very low bar . without comment on an active investigation , it should be note that Ofcom be currently investigate Brsk for an allege failure to notify Birmingham city council 28 day prior to instal pole . it be important that the investigation be conclude quickly . I understand that the industry body , the Internet Service Providers Association , which I thank for provide a briefing ahead of the debate , be work on a potential revision to the cabinet and pole siting code of practice . I hope we will hear something encouraging from the Minister but , as long as the code remain voluntary , it will always be circumvent in some case . the code of practice merely state that , follow advice for engage and consult resident , the code operator should place a site notice in " as close proximity as possible … if an appropriate place to site a notice be not available , another mean of inform resident may be discuss and agree upon . " in seek to address these concern , a number of resident in my constituency have , individually and collectively , attempt to follow the step set out in the code of practice , include the complaint process . however , the code of practice , in its current form , fail to provide sufficient redress . it state that a complaint procedure should be in place , but it fail to go far than a company provide write response detail why a complaint be accept or reject . frankly , that be not good enough . we must focus on prevent poor practice , as well as encourage the good . I thank the Minister for his engagement with hon . member across the House on this issue . do he agree that , in pursuit of the Government ' s welcome manifesto commitment to a renew push for full gigabit coverage by 2030 , a well code of practice be need ? do he agree that there be a natural conflict of interest in allow broadband company to be the sole arbiter of their own practice ? and do he far agree that there should be a role for Ofcom in uphold the code ? I thank the Minister for his attention , and I look forward to hear how he propose to engage with member across the House on this important issue . I be sure we will all hear more about this problem throughout the course of this Parliament . as this be the first time that I have see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I say how glad I be that you be elect ? I vote for you , so there . [ laughter . ] it be a secret ballot , so you can ' t check . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) on his election ; it be good to see he in his place . I think I be right in say that King ' s Norton be part of his patch , but he may not be aware that one of the shield on the wall of this Chamber be for a former member for King ' s Norton who be kill in the second world war : a very brave man who fight for his country and who die make it possible for everybody to evacuate . Ronnie Cartland be his name ; he be a conservative , but his first rebellion be when he be angry that the Government be not do enough for distressed area , include in my constituency in south Wales . I feel I have an affinity with my hon . friend ' s constituency , although I hope I have not prompt he to rebel instantly . I be delighted to have the opportunity to have this debate . I will be very clear : the vast majority of company operate in this sphere be do so entirely responsibly . they be do a great favour for the nation in roll out broadband of the kind of speed that everybody want . I note the point that my hon . friend the Member for Stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) make about other country in Europe ; of course we aspire to that coverage for everybody across the UK . the vast majority of company be operate responsibly but , frankly , a few be behave like cowboy . as a Government and as a Parliament , I think we sometimes need to say to cowboy that they be drink in the last chance saloon . I have make that abundantly clear to some of the operator . I know that some operator be strive to co - operate with one another and with BT Openreach to ensure that no unnecessary street furniture suddenly appear and that there be full consultation with the local community before a road be dig up for a new duct or a new pole appear . company that be abide by the code of conduct and fulfil their obligation be almost as feed up as my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield and other hon . friend ; indeed , I be sure we could fill the whole Chamber with hon . member who be equally feed up with the few company that be bring the whole system into disrepute . that matter , because in the end the most important thing be that the wide strategy be right . we want to deliver good - value , very high - speed , more than ultrafast , gigabit - capable broadband base on fibre to the whole UK as fast as possible without have to provide vast amount of taxpayer ' money . we therefore need to do so on the basis of commercial roll - out . of course it be right that that should not be on the basis of monopoly and that competition , where possible , should drive choice for consumer and cheap price . that part of the strategy be absolutely right . the part of the strategy that the previous Government be a bit more relaxed about — in fact , Ministers use to say categorically that they be completely relaxed about it — be overbuild . that have mean several company dig up the road one after another , as have happen in some part of the country . it have also mean several company decide that they need their own set of pole , or pole appear in an area that have never previously have pole and in which duct have be lay out but not use . I be not completely relax about overbuild . I be concerned about it , because I know that a lot of constituent up and down the land be concerned . however , I want to make sure that commercial operator that be abide by the rule and the code of conduct have every opportunity to continue to do so , in order that their commercial investment be not disrupt unnecessarily and we can deliver the infrastructure that we need across the whole United Kingdom . in the end , I want the cheap possible price for people and the high possible capacity across the network for every property in the land . I would issue one slight corrective in this debate . sometimes people say that this be a battle between urban and rural , but in fact some of the issue in urban area be completely different from those in rural area , and some be identical . I be not sure whether that dichotomy be fair . my preference be for duct wherever possible . that be not always possible , for a whole series of different logistical reason in different area . it be an undeniable fact that provide connectivity via pole be likely to be something like 10 time cheap than do it via duct , so I fully understand why commercial operator want to install pole . I understand that that could mean that there will be pole in area that have never have they before , and , in some area , that be something that we will have to live with . I thank my hon . friend for give way , and I agree with almost everything that he have say . I also wish to reflect on the move tribute that he make to a predecessor Member for King ' s Norton . I understand the case that my hon . friend have make , and I welcome his comment . do he accept that , when the price of pole be already cheap , there be a risk that some company will undercut each other on consumer service to reach low margin ? that be at the heart of the issue that we be debate today . it be about those operator and local case in which standard have not be follow . good network provider should have nothing to fear from the change that have be suggest tonight . yes , I agree with every word that my hon . friend have just say . he put it extremely well . he probably ought to be the Minister , and perhaps he will be soon . he be right . I also want to say that we should have share infrastructure wherever that be possible . legislation already make provision for some of that to happen . in speak to the operator , I have lay it down quite firmly that we need to enhance that infrastructure . I can perfectly understand why a commercial operator might say , " well , I be not sure that I really want to share with my competitor " . that be why a new code of conduct have take a while . I hope that new code of conduct , which I have discuss with the operator , will be lay out very soon . there be urgency about this , because the roll - out be happen this week , next week and the week after . we need to tackle these issue in short measure , not wait a long period of time . at the very late , this code of conduct will be publish in the early new year , and I encourage everybody in the sector to abide by the code . I encourage competitor to tell the two or three company that be not play by the rule that they be bring all of they into disrepute . the single most important issue for most of these operator be how they will drive take - up . it be about not just roll - out — that be their investment — but take - up . when we talk about 100 megabit per second — or about gigabit per second — many people have no idea what we be talk about . the truth be that all of our home and business will need much great broadband capacity in the near future , so we do have to roll this out . we have to make sure that people understand why they need it . the danger be that , if this whole process undermine confidence in the roll - out , it will affect take - up . it be in the commercial interest of everybody to make sure that we come to a well set of solution in this area . let I go through a couple of the specific point that my hon . friend raise . as he know , the cabinet siting and pole siting code of practice be issue in November 2016 . it set out guidance on good practice relate to deployment , encourage operator to site apparatus responsibly and engage proactively with both local authority and the local community , and he lay out some of the specific that follow on from that — the 28 day ' notice that need to be give to local council and so on . there be some operator — not the one my hon . friend be talk about , but for instance , IX Wireless , which I have in my office early this afternoon — that be operate a different model , and a different set of issue relate specifically to they . there , too , I have try to make it clear what government expectation be . as I say , follow a meeting with the operator , the industry have commit to revise the code of practice , which I think will be much tough , and the guidance should be publish in the new year . however , I be absolutely clear that if voluntary adherence do not work , we reserve the right to change the law . we be in earnest about that , because we be aware of the concern people have express . my hon . friend be also right to say that Ofcom have state that it would investigate any case where pole be site in a way that be not consistent with the requirement and guideline in place , include where they block resident ' drive or where operator systematically fail to engage with local planning authority ’ suggestion . as my hon . friend have already refer to , Ofcom have open an investigation into whether Brsk have fail to comply with its obligation . I be keen to have a meeting with Brsk , and I hope that will happen in the next few week . I do not want to interfere in the process that Ofcom be engage in ; that be a matter for Ofcom and I would not seek to undermine what be effectively a quasi - judicial operation . however , I want to make sure that Brsk fully understand the concern not only of many Birmingham MPs — I note the contribution of my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) early — but of the Government in this field . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield for get the debate so early in his time as a Member of Parliament . he be obviously go to be a doughty defender of the right of his constituent . Madam Deputy Speaker , I notice that you be nod along — I know you be not really allow to do that . you be shake your head as well — you be not allow to do that either . none the less , I think you broadly agree with the thrust of what I be say , so I feel as if I have unite the House . on that note , I bid you farewell . question put and agree to . House adjourn .