Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — training of NHS Staff what step his Department be take to train more NHS staff . the NHS long - term workforce plan set out a path to double the number of medical school training place , increase gp training by 50 % and double the number of adult nursing training place . what step be the Government take to increase the recruitment of midwife , give the closure of Stafford County Hospital ' s freestande midwifery birthing unit due to shortage , and how be the Secretary of State go to ensure that all midwife be train to deal with birth injury to reduce risk ? my hon . friend raise an important point , and I know she have secure a debate in the House this week to far explore these issue . she will be aware that there have be a 13 % increase in the number of midwifery programme place starter since two year ago . that be alongside the £ 165 million add to the maternity budget since 2021 and the key increase in midwifery place in the long - term workforce plan . [ Official Report , 7 November 2023 , Vol . 740 , c . 2mc . ] it be obviously welcome to train and recruit as many staff as possible , but part of the problem be actually retain the staff . we be increasingly see among the reason give for leave , particularly by nurse , their work - life balance . what be the Secretary of State do to address that ? just yesterday , I meet leader of the NHS Staff Council , who represent trade union under Agenda for Change , as part of our ongoing discussion on the agreement we will reach with they , which include work together on retention and how we address some of the challenge the workforce face . may I congratulate the Secretary of State on be ahead of track to hire 50 , 000 more nurse this Parliament , as we commit to in the 2019 manifesto ? however , can I push he by ask he where he be up to on ensure that enough staff be train to do clinical trial , as set out in the excellent o ' Shaughnessy review , and can he give we an update of where implementation of that review be up to ? I very much welcome my right hon . friend signal that we be ahead of the manifesto commitment not just in nurse be recruit , but in key additional role in primary care , where the target be 26 , 000 and actually 31 , 000 have now be recruit . he be right about the importance of clinical research . the o ' Shaughnessy review speed that up and reduce the cost . it well leverage the taxpayer pound in investment from the private sector , and standardise contract across NHS trust to bring the time down . we be also look at innovation in area such as the NHS app to well empower patient to take part in clinical research trial . that ensure they be at the front of the queue in get the late medicine , which be exactly where we want the NHS to be . the Secretary of State do not mention the increase plan in the number of physician associate . the Norfolk and Waveney integrate care system have post : " got abdominal pain that isn ' t go away ? a Physician Associate base in your GP practice can help … they be highly skilled at diagnose condition " . after the tragic case of Emily Chesterton , who be misdiagnose after see a physician associate twice at a GP practice and no gp at any point , when will the lesson be learn that the NHS workforce can not be safely expand by this route of associate with only two year ' medical training ? all clinical role need to have the right regulation around they , and we need to ensure that patient safety be to the fore . the hon . Lady give a very good illustration of how the Labour party talk about reform , but not when it come to the reform of new role , have new role in the NHS and have a ladder of opportunity for people to come into the NHS . physician associate be people with master ' degree : these people be highly skilled . of course , we need to get the regulation right . however , the Labour party talk about reform , but when it come to stand up to the trade union , it be not willing to do so , which be why , when there be an innovation such as physician associate , it want to block it . Suicide Prevention what step he be take to help prevent suicide . what step he be take to help prevent suicide . last month , we publish a cross - Government five - year suicide prevention strategy . it set out our pledge to reduce England ' s suicide rate within two and a half year , with over 100 measure aim at save life and provide early intervention for those at high risk of suicide , include new mum and middle - aged man . like many other , I drop into the campaign event for " one million live " , develop by Jacobs and support by r ; pple , and I be impress by its effort to interfere with the online risk of suicide - centric website . the Minister may be aware that my wife be a long - term volunteer with Darlington and district Samaritans , which have raise with I the " save life can ' t wait " campaign . it ask the Government to review local funding for suicide - safe community , which be due to end . could I ask the Minister to support the " one million live " campaign , and to push for the renewal of local funding to support suicide - safe community ? I thank my hon . friend for his hard work in this area and for his mental health campaigning overall , and also his wife and all who selflessly give their time to volunteer with the invaluable mental health charity . we fully recognise that , and that be why when we launch the suicide prevention strategy we also launch our £ 10 million suicide prevention grant fund . on my hon . friend ' s point about wide funding beyond 2024 - 25 , that be subject to a future spending review , but our commitment and record in deliver record investment of £ 15 . 9 billion in mental health service just in this financial year , which be 28 % more funding than in 2018 , should give he confidence that this Conservative Government deliver on mental health service . be the Minister able to provide an update on the suicide prevention grant , and particularly on when the money be expect to reach the successful organisation ? we have have a huge response to the opening of the grant , with over 1 , 800 application from voluntary group and organisation . we be assess those bid and hope to make an announcement before the end of the year . campaign such as 3 dad walk and just 3 Mums Walking have work incredibly hard to raise awareness of suicide prevention . have the Minister have time to meet with either of those campaign yet ? I have meet with 3 dad walk ; I have not meet the mum group but be very happy to do so . because of their intervention and campaigning , we be able to successfully put their campaign about improve mental health awareness in the school curriculum into our suicide prevention strategy . it be a cross - government strategy , and the Department for Education have very much take their point on board . over 1 . 8 million people languish on mental health waiting list , black people five time more likely to be detain under the Mental Health Act 1983 , and over 2 , 000 people with learn disability detain in hospital , all while the Government be drag their foot on mental health and suicide prevention . you will be interested to know , Mr Speaker , that we have cross - party support to tackle these burn injustice through the draft Mental Health Bill , yet since the Joint Committee on the Draft Mental Health Bill publish our report in January we have hear nothing from the government , so will the Minister today commit to include reform of the Mental Health Act in the King ' s Speech ? I be go to pay tribute to the hon . Lady for her work on mental health campaigning , and she will know we have do a huge amount . the suicide prevention strategy be a cross - government piece of work , which make sure suicide be everyone ' s business , not just that of health and social care . whether by support family bereave by suicide or roll out mental health support scheme in school , it be this Government who be deliver on mental health service . I call the shadow Minister . the House of Commons Library say there have be no statistically significant change in the rate of suicide in England since 2015 . Suicide remain the big killer of man under 50 in the UK . why have it take so long for the Government to bring forward a strategy , and why do they continue to drag their foot over reform to the Mental Health Act ? can the Minister give the House a firm timetable today ? the hon . Lady be not quite right in her statistic . just before covid we have see a 20 % reduction compare with two decade ago in suicide level in England . she might be interested to know that in labour - run Wales suicide rate be high than in England , and its suicide prevention strategy expire last year . mental health have be demote on the shadow Front Bench , too , as we see from the resignation of the hon . member for Tooting ( Dr Allin - Khan ) when the role of shadow mental health Minister be remove from the Opposition Front Bench . RAAC in Hospitals what step his Department be take to remediate hospital building with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . we be determined to address the safety issue cause by RAAC . we be prioritise the seven worst - affect hospital and have a fund of just under £ 700 million cover the four - year programme of replacement . can the Secretary of State tell the House how many of the hospital where RAAC be an issue also have issue with asbestos be present ? what assessment have his Department make of the impact should asbestos spore be release in a RAAC collapse ? the hon . member raise an interesting point about asbestos , because much of the NHS estate date from a time when asbestos be widely use . of course , asbestos be consider safe if it be undisturbed . it be a similar issue with RAAC . on RAAC , we be follow the guidance from the Institution of Structural Engineers and monitor it . the advice be not that all RAAC need to be replace ; the point be that it need to be monitor . where there be deterioration , we have a fund of just under £ 700 million to tackle that . the asbestos be be monitor , as be the RAAC . we have be monitor this since 2019 and have a four - year national programme back up with £ 700 million to address issue as and when they arise . the resident of Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke would like I to place their thank on the record to the Secretary of State for have ensure that the Haywood walk - in centre , which have RAAC present , have just receive £ 26 . 5 million for a new build out - patient building , which will do a lot to improve the care of resident locally . as spade be already in the ground , will the Secretary of State commit to come to visit so that we can show off this fantastic progress ? it be always a pleasure to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency . he highlight a good illustration of how the national programme be work , back with that £ 700 million of funding . we be closely monitor the estate and , where RAAC mitigation be require , that work be take place . he bring a good example of that to the House ' s attention . I call the shadow Minister . not only be the hospital building crumble after 13 year of neglect , create huge capacity challenge ; it seem that those still stand do not have enough bed . as we hear from the Times this morning , the number of " hospital bed … have fall by almost 3 , 000 since minister promise 5 , 000 before winter " . it feel pretty much like winter to I . be that just another broken promise ? first , we have get more than £ 1 billion of investment in an additional 5 , 000 permanent bed go into the NHS estate as part of our urgent and emergency care recovery programme . more widely , the Government be commit to the big ever investment in the NHS estate , back with more than £ 20 billion — the big of any Government . of course , we will not take lecture from Labour , which bequeath the NHS the consequence of expensive private finance initiative deal that many trust be still pay for to this day . Health and Social Care Recruitment : EU exit what recent assessment he have make of the impact of the UK ' s departure from the EU on trend in the level of recruitment in the health and social care sector . what recent assessment he have make of the impact of the UK ' s departure from the EU on trend in the level of recruitment in the health and social care sector . rise — you can respond sit down if you wish . it be fine ; thank you , Mr Speaker . since Brexit , we have more than 13 , 000 more doctor and 48 , 000 more nurse work in the NHS in England , and 40 , 000 more full - time equivalent staff in adult social care . our point - base immigration system mean that we can recruit the talent we need from all over the world for our health and social care system , include from the European Union . if everything be as rosy as the Minister say , why do a spokesperson for the Nuffield Trust say last year that " great cost , more paperwork and uncertainty over visa because of Brexit have be among the big barrier to recruit and keep EU and EFTA doctor " ? can not she admit that Brexit be exacerbate difficulty with recruit appropriate staff for the NHS across the whole of the UK ? Scotland do not vote for Brexit . why be we have to pay the price ? I suggest it be really time that the hon . Gentleman stop blame Brexit . he should in fact look to his SNP colleague in Holyrood and ensure that they make Scotland ' s NHS a well place to work . if he have listen to my answer , he would have hear I say that since Brexit we have recruit more than 13 , 000 more doctor to the NHS in England . in fact , we be do so well that we recently recruit a doctor from the SNP Benches . [ laughter . ] very droll . I congratulate the Minister on that one . if not the Nuffield Trust , perhaps bma Scotland ' s Chair Dr Iain Kennedy will be good enough . he recently say that the recruitment and retention of senior medical staff across the NHS in Scotland remain a huge challenge , with the health immigration surcharge cost increase announce by this Government potentially far deter foreign worker from join the NHS . give the recently announce NHS long - term workforce plan , what step be the Minister take to ensure that Scotland have the immigration we need for future recruitment and retention for our health service ? we have the health and social care visa , which support our health and social care service to recruit doctor , nurse and other professional , as well as social care staff , help to boost those number . the hon . Gentleman refer to the important NHS workforce long - term plan , which will increase the home - grow staff in our health service . that will give we 60 , 000 more doctor , 170 , 000 more nurse and 70 , 000 more allied health professional in our NHS over the next 15 year . I call the SNP spokesperson . it have be report that the Home Secretary plan to tighten the rule for those arrive on a health and care worker visa , to block most from bring dependent with they — yet another in a long list of her vendetta against child come to these isle . what recent assessment have the Secretary of State make of how that will impact international recruitment and capacity in our already struggle health and care service ? I work closely with colleague in the Home Office to ensure that the health and care visa achieve the objective set out . we be see real success in social care — the recent Skills for Care workforce report show that we have 20 , 000 more care worker in England . we be do well on recruitment to social care . HIV : Emergency Department Opt - out Testing what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of emergency department opt - out testing for HIV . provisional NHS datum show that opt - out testing have find around 700 case of HIV during its first year . in total , it have find more than 2 , 000 case of blood - bear disease , include hepatitis B and C . I welcome the Minister ' s news on those figure . he will have see the impact of opt - out testing — detect more people , treat they early and save the NHS money . however , if we be to meet our 2030 target on no new infection , we can not delay a further roll - out of opt - out testing . will he commit the resource need to expand it in time for World AIDS Day on 1 December ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for all his work on this important issue . we will assess all the evidence and reply before the end of the year . opt - out testing be not the only thing we be do to drive down HIV transmission . we have have a 40 % rise in the number of people get pre - exposure prophylaxis , and we have increase the number of people test , with 20 , 000 free testing kit hand out this year . we be do everything we can to meet that visionary goal to stop HIV transmission in this country . I thank the Minister for his answer to the question from the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) . it be clear that today , HIV be not the death sentence that it once be , because of the progress of medication and healthcare in prolong life and improve quality of life . in Northern Ireland we be proactive , as the Minister will know , on PrEP and young people . we be do progressive thing through the Department of Health , Social Services and Public Safety in the Northern Ireland Assembly . have the Minister have the opportunity to discuss with the Northern Ireland Assembly and the Health Department how we can work well together ? I always say we be well together in every case . the hon . Gentleman be completely correct . he have be a fantastic champion on this issue . the UK be lead the world on this issue , hit the UN ' s 95 - 95 - 95 goal , drive down transmission and reduce stigma . People increasingly realise that as well as suppress the virus , the treatment make it impossible to transmit , transform the life of people with HIV . access to GPs : Rural Communities what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of the level of access to GPs in rural community . we have increase funding for general practice by about a fifth in real term since 2018 . we have increase the workforce by about 30 % since 2019 alone , with 2 , 000 extra doctor and 31 , 000 extra clinician go into general practice . with the hard work of GPs , that have enable about 15 % more appointment than before the pandemic . in rural area we be go far with thing such as the target in - house recruitment scheme and the element of the funding formula that favour rural area . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that answer , but I have repeatedly raise with Ministers the specific case of an innovative model from Long Crendon Parish Council to use land secure through plan gain to replace Long Crendon Surgery , which close during the pandemic . there be an agreement for Unity Health to provide primary care service there , but no money to physically build . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have advise consistently that the money be seek from the integrate care board , but after prolong talk it have say that there be no money . will the Minister look at this innovative model again ? it be a great way of build rural gp provision in the future , with a mind to his Department make it happen . I will absolutely look closely at that specific case . my hon . friend have put a huge amount of work into Long Crendon . as he know , we be already change the national planning policy framework to enable more developer contribution to flow into such innovative project . we have more GP practice than we do in 2010 , but we continue to look at way to go far . Cardiovascular Disease Prevention what step he be take to help prevent cardiovascular disease . we be make the most significant public health intervention in a generation by create a smoke - free generation . to put that in context , every five cigarette a day increase the risk of stroke by 12 % . we be also roll out free blood pressure check to people over 40 in community pharmacy , which will help to detect much early thousand more people live with high blood pressure . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . many commercial infant and toddler food be ultra - process , which set alarm bell ring as ultra - process food be strongly associate with cardiovascular disease and 40 % of 10 to 11 - year - old be overweight or obese . I strongly believe that parent be be mislead by company that put health claim on ultra - process infant food , when in fact the food be anything but healthy — it be high in fat , salt and sugar . what step be the Government take to address the disingenuous and grossly misleading marketing and labelling of commercial infant and toddler food and drink ? as my hon . friend know , there be no agree definition for ultra - high process food . as a general principle , I do not think we should be tax and ban thing — smoking be an outlier . we have to empower the patient and recognise the pressure from the cost of living . we be also roll out anti - obesity drug to give patient access to the most innovative drug as part of our wide response to the challenge of obesity . what be the Secretary of State ' s view of the worrying trend of increase cardiac - relate death in the UK and around the world since 2021 , which correlate closely with the roll - out of the experimental mrna vaccine ? it be always important to follow the science . that be why , at the G20 , Health Ministers agree to look at the various research be do in multiple country , particularly on long covid but also on the lesson from that period , to ensure that research from that period be share internationally so we can learn good practice from other country as well as within the NHS . Radiotherapy Linear Accelerator Machines how many and what proportion of NHS radiotherapy linear accelerator ( LINAC ) machine will reach the end of their recommend lifespan in 2024 . the Government and NHS England be commit to ensure cancer patient can receive high quality radiotherapy treatment . between 2016 and 2021 , £ 162 million be invest which enable the replacement or upgrade of around 100 radiotherapy machine . responsibility for investment in radiotherapy machine have sit with local system since April 2022 . I look forward to meet the hon . Gentleman and the all - party group for radiotherapy on this matter soon . I be very grateful to the Minister for his reply and in particular for the offer of the meeting come soon . Radiotherapy UK say that for we to even meet average international standard we must commission 125 additional new linear accelerator . will he make the commitment to do that and , in do so , ensure that rural and remote community do not lose out by place some of those machine in new satellite centre , such as the Westmorland General Hospital ? the hon . Gentleman be hugely passionate on this subject . as I say , integrate care board be responsible for meet the health need of their individual population , and that include capital allocation . the 2021 spending review set aside £ 12 billion in capital funding , and since 2016 over £ 160 million have be invest in radiotherapy equipment , but of course I want to see more investment in this important technology and the necessary upgrade across England . I very much look forward to our meeting , where we can discuss that far . paediatric Cancer Strategy for London what recent progress NHS England have make on implement its paediatric cancer strategy for London . follow Professor Sir Mike Richards ' s review , it be now a national requirement for all paediatric cancer service to be co - locate with a child ' s intensive care unit . the current principal treatment centre for south London and the south - east do not meet those requirement . NHS England have launch a reconfiguration process to identify a new location , which include a public consultation . the future centre will achieve world class outcome for child with cancer . I would be very happy to meet member whose constituent may be affect to discuss that far . I be grateful to the Minister for that offer , because that would have be part of my question . then you don ' t need to ask it . but in true style , Mr Speaker , I be hope for two bite at the cherry . [ laughter . ] in my recent discussion with the management of St George ' s Hospital , one concern about the consultation be that the specialist paediatric cancer surgical unit base at St George ' s may be lose if the current proposal go through . that would potentially affect real outcome for a number of child . will the Minister have a look at that and explain to I whether he be concerned about the current scoring by the NHS ? I thank my hon . friend for his supplementary question . while I can not pre - empt the outcome of the consultation , which close on 18 December , I can assure he that there will be no sudden change in the way patient receive their care . any move will of course be carefully plan with the full involvement of current team , and clear information will be provide for parent and family . NHS England will help as many experienced staff as possible to move to the future centre , and I can reassure my hon . friend that that centre will build on all the strength of the exist service and provide the good quality of care for patient . integrate Care Systems what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of integrate care system . integrated care system and the organisation within they be make real progress in understand the health need of their population , set out their plan , develop the infrastructure need for collaboration , and bring health and social care organisation together to serve the need of their community . NHS Cheshire and Merseyside integrate care board have instruct all NHS provider to make cut of 5 % in their service . its instruction be not be discuss with member of the public , Members of Parliament or indeed anyone , and it be clear there be no mandate for this action . give that the Government have make great play of the NHS have more fund than ever before , I be at a loss to understand why the cut be necessary , so will the Minister intervene to ensure that they do not happen on her watch ? NHS England determine the funding receive by integrate care system . that follow a formula which take into account the need of local population , demographic deprivation and so on , and ics be then able to direct resource as they be well need across those population . part of their value , and part of the intention in set they up along with the organisation within they , lie in that ability to understand the health need of local population and direct resource accordingly . integrated care system bring partner organisation together to improve health , tackle inequality , and enhance value for money . detailed datum such as that produce by NHS Digital be critical to their work , but we learn this week that A & E waiting time in Wales have be under - report for the last 10 year . do the Minister agree that without accurate datum , the Labour Government in Cardiff be scupper the attempt of NHS Wales to deliver well health outcome throughout Wales ? my hon . friend have make a good point about the importance of transparency and accurate datum . as she say , just this week we learn that labour - run NHS Wales have be under - report its A & E waiting time . accord to the Royal College of Emergency Medicine , about 45 , 000 patient be miss from the datum . while we be work hard to improve service in the NHS in England , the labour - run NHS in Wales be merely fudge the figure . I call the shadow Minister . the whole purpose of integrate care system be to join up social care and NHS service in a well way . we know , for example , that fracture liaison service keep 100 , 000 people out of hospital , but only 50 % of English NHS trust have they , and despite the commitment give by the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care — the hon . member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield — to provide more , nothing have happen , and Lord Evans have walk back from her commitment . I realise that I be push at an open door in direct this question to a Minister whose leg be strap up , but when will the Government finally deliver for the " back well bone " campaign to help old people to survive and thrive ? as the hon . Member have mention , I have a broken ankle , and I be take my responsibility as Minister with oversight of urgent and emergency care very seriously in make use of several of those service . as for my oversight of integrated care system , what I be see be that they be make a very good job of enable the integration of service . for instance , we be see real success in the growth of virtual ward — or " hospital at home " — which bring together acute and community service to look after people in their home and help they to be discharge early . the NHS have achieve its target of have 10 , 000 " hospital at home " place ready for this winter . access to Primary Care what step he be take to improve access to primary care service . what step he be take to improve access to primary care service . our primary care recovery plan support GP practice in address the 8 am rush for appointment , cut bureaucracy for GPs and expand community pharmacy service . we have recruit over 31 , 000 additional primary care staff and have over 2 , 000 more doctor work in general practice , compare with before the pandemic . People be find it nigh - on impossible to see their gp when they need to . labour have pledge to guarantee face - to - face appointment when people want they by train more NHS gps but , as my constituent point out to I , under the Tories , a two - tier healthcare system be emerge where some be force to pay to be see quick while those that can not afford it be leave behind in agony . why have the Conservatives break their promise , make in 2019 , to deliver 6 , 000 more gps , and when will this GP crisis finally be resolve ? there be a two - tier approach within the UK , between what be go on with the NHS in Wales and what be go on in England . we have more appointment , more staff — over 2 , 000 more doctor and over 31 , 000 additional role — and more tech , with £ 240 million invest in deliver the digital telephony and the online booking system so that we can get patient to the right level of care with an appointment as part of our commitment to 50 million more appointment in primary care . in my constituency of Aylesbury we have some absolutely fantastic gps and some brilliant service be deliver , thank in part to many of the policy that have be introduce under this Government . I thank my right hon . friend for continue with that . however , there be still challenge for constituent to get through to their gp surgery to make an appointment in the first place . he have just mention digital telephony . could he update the House on the progress that be be make on roll out this technology to health centre to end the incredibly frustrating wait that people have , sometimes be on hold on the phone for hour at a time ? through that £ 240 million , we have 100 % adoption from GP practice that want to take part in receive those fund and put digital telephony in place if they have not already do so . this include call - back , which allow people to know where they be in the queue , and link to online booking , which allow we to maximise the 31 , 000 additional role that we have put into primary care so that people can see the specialist that they need . in my hon . friend ' s own integrate care board , appointment for July increase from 768 , 000 last July to 816 , 000 this July , so more patient be be see , more appointment be take place and more tech investment be go into the practice in his area . I call the shadow Secretary of State . to listen to the Secretary of State , you would think it be all go so well , so let I give he a reality check . in Tamworth last year , only a third of patient say it be easy to get through to their doctor on the phone , one in three GP appointment be not conduct face to face and few than half of patient be offer a choice of appointment . the Government be not listen to the people of Tamworth . perhaps the Secretary of State would like to explain to the people of Tamworth why , after 13 year of Conservative Government , this be the case , and well still , adopt Labour ' s plan to cut red tape , incentivise continuity of care and bring back the family doctor . I be glad that the hon . Gentleman raise GPs in Tamworth . the GP lead for the Doctors Association say that his plan for general practice fill they with despair , and his proposal for GP nationalisation be mock by the Nuffield Trust , one of the respected think - tank . the reality be that this government be invest in more tech in primary care , have recruit 31 , 000 additional role into primary care and have over 2 , 000 more doctor work in primary care than before the pandemic . those be the fact . his plan have be mock by respected think - tank because he talk a good game on reform but we know that he will never stand up to the trade union . New Health Centre : Thornbury what step his Department be take to provide a new health centre in Thornbury . I be aware of the project to provide a new health centre in Thornbury and , of course , my hon . friend ' s tireless work to champion it . my official be work closely with colleague in NHS England and the integrated care board to help progress the scheme . I understand that he meet Lord Markham early today to discuss imminent funding for the development of the business case , and we will be in touch in the come day . I be grateful to Ministers for take the time to meet I this morning to discuss the £ 40 million bid for a new health centre in Thornbury , which be a grow town that desperately need this new facility . the health centre will provide more GP appointment , more mental health support and , crucially , more out - patient service . can the Minister update I on the timescale for the announcement on funding for Thornbury health centre so we can get this crucial facility open as quickly as possible ? my hon . friend make a powerful case , and I know how passionate and determine he be to deliver the new Thornbury health centre . I can assure he that my official will continue to work closely with he , with the integrate care board and with the NHS to progress the scheme . we will be in contact in the come day , follow the meeting he have early today with Lord Markham . NHS Dentistry what recent step his Department have take to increase the availability of NHS dentistry service . we be make NHS work more attractive to dentist . we have start to reform the contract and create more UDA band . we have introduce the minimum UDA value to help sustain practice where value be low , and we be allow dentist to deliver 110 % of their uda . we be also reform the rule to empower both clinician and commissioner , for example by enable therapist to start deliver medicine such as anaesthetic . we be rebase contract value where they be underperform , and we be grow the workforce with a record commitment to grow the number of dentist in training by 40 % — a commitment never make by the Opposition . UDA rate , the sum pay to nhs dentist for each unit of dental work undertake , have long be deem insufficient . be base on figure from 2005 , there be huge difference in rate between practice , with some receive less than the NHS charge patient for the service . a recent 5 % uplift be base on the Government estimate of a 3 % rise in cost , a figure that local dentist tell I be more like 10 % to 15 % , compound the loss that nhs dentist be already make . what step be my hon . friend take to reform the UDA system and to stop the flow of dentist leave the NHS ? that be exactly why we have start to reform the UDA system . as well as the introduction of the first ever minimum UDA rate , which will help constituency such as my hon . friend ' s , we have change the rule nationally so that commissioner can take UDAs away from dentist who be underperform and give they to those who want to do more nhs work . as a result , nearly a quarter more NHS dentistry be be do than a year ago . NHS Dentistry : south - west England what step he be take to increase access to NHS dentistry service in the south - west . in addition to the step we be take to drive up NHS dentistry everywhere , we be go far in the south - west , with NHSE commission additional urgent appointment . there be several hundred extra appointment every week . I thank my hon . friend for his answer . it be not sustainable for the people of West Dorset who have need dental care for some time when there be a £ 400 million national underspend in the dental care budget . the NHS and local dentist tell I that the incompatibility often relate to the national dental care contract , which be up for review . when do the Minister expect a solution to be find to this contract difficulty ? will he meet I and the NHS Dorset ICB to discuss the matter in detail to find a solution ? absolutely . I be keen to continue the conversation with my hon . friend . these issue be exactly why , this summer , we legislate to allow rebasing and to end the inflexibility he describe . we be also in the process of ringfence local dental budget , because we do not want to see underspend . we want to see that money go to NHS dentistry . Cancer Treatment Waiting Times what step he be take to improve wait time for cancer treatment . what step he be take to improve wait time for cancer treatment . improve cancer treatment waiting time be a top priority for this Government , and it be a key focus of our elective recovery plan , back by an additional £ 8 billion in revenue funding across the spending review period . in August 2023 , cancer treatment activity for first treatment stand at 105 % of pre - pandemic level on a per working day basis , and the 62 - day backlog have fall 30 % since its peak in the pandemic . pancreatic cancer be the deadly type of common cancer , kill more than half of those diagnose in England within three month . I know the pain of lose close friend and family to pancreatic cancer and how important it be that people be diagnose and treat quickly . under this government we have see NHS waiting list go up , not down . what be the Minister do to ensure that people with pancreatic cancer be see , diagnose and treat quickly ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , and , of course , I recognise the importance of early diagnosis and treatment . cancer check be up by a quarter on pre - pandemic level , and in August more than 91 % of patient start their first cancer treatment within a month of a decision to treat . we have open 123 additional community diagnostic centre and an additional 94 surgical hub , but I accept , of course , that there be much more that we need to do . the Minister have again be refer to " pre - pandemic level " . minister have a tendency to blame covid for increase waiting time , include in respect of cancer . I presume they be aware that the number of cancer patient not get care on time rise in every year since the Conservatives come to power before the pandemic . how can the Government defend that dreadful record ? we be continue to support NHS England in increase cancer treatment capacity . as I say , I recognise the importance of early diagnosis and treatment of cancer . NHS England have instruct integrate care board to increase and prioritise the diagnostic and treatment capacity for cancer . as of the middle of this year , we have 93 additional surgical hub that be currently operational and 123 additional community diagnostic centre , which have deliver more than 5 million additional test since July 2021 , but we know and recognise that we need to do more . member will know from my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests that I be an NHS consultant and a member of the British Medical Association . I congratulate the Minister on the work he be do to reduce waiting list , but bma strike have lead to the loss of more than 1 million appointment , have delay the reporting of scan , include scan for cancer , and have disrupt people ' s chronic long - term condition treatment . what be he do to ensure that there be no further strike ? what talk be he have on minimum service level to expand the provision if further strike do take place ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , which be well direct at the BMA . however , she be right to suggest that we be take action on minimum service level legislation . we recognise that industrial action mean that service be under increase pressure , with appointment and treatment be cancel because of the strike . the NHS be take action , prioritise urgent and cancer care , and will of course continue to do so . it will do its good to maintain appointment and elective procedure , wherever possible , but she be right to say that these strike and the action of the BMA be have a devastating impact on patient . my constituent Elaine Lynch be diagnose with stage 4 lung cancer in September 2021 . the drug she need , Enhertu , be available free on the NHS to treat breast cancer , but not lung cancer , so it be cost my constituent £ 10 , 000 a month to get the treatment , without which she will die . the public petition on this matter have receive more than 200 , 000 signature , so it be very much in the public interest . as the company Daiichi Sankyo do not offer the drug on compassionate ground , will the Minister meet I to see how we can make this drug available for Elaine as soon as possible , because this be literally a matter of life or death ? I have huge sympathy and empathy with the case that my hon . friend raise . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence be rightly independent , and strict and robust process be in place on drug repurposing and clinical trial . nevertheless , I would of course be happy to meet he to see what can be do . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . first , may I welcome Opposition Front - Bench Members to their new role , as there have be change since we last meet ? since then , we have launch a new £ 30 million fund to speed up the adoption of tech across the NHS . even when local pilot prove their effectiveness , it often take too long for those innovation to be roll out nationally . this fund can change that , give integrate care system across England the chance to invest in tech that be prove to improve care , for instance in detect cancer soon . these investment will be make this financial year , get patient care fast . we be also make more than 200 more medical school place available for university from next September , accelerate a commitment that we make in the NHS long - term workforce plan and deliver more doctor to area that need they most . this government be listen to patient voice too , particularly on the importance of biological sex in healthcare . that be why , follow a consultation later this year , we will amend the NHS constitution to make sure that we respect the privacy , dignity and safety of all patient . the Prime Minister have also unveil plan to introduce a new law to prevent child who turn 14 this year from ever legally be sell cigarette , create the first smokefree generation . last week , my Department launch an expedite consultation to crack down on youth vaping . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , particularly what he say about tech . on dental provision , I recently meet with Dr Khan of Westbury Park dental practice in my constituency to discuss access to NHS dentistry , which be become more difficult for many of my constituent . I welcome the plan we have to increase the number of dentist and I reiterate my support for a dental school at Keele University , but those plan will take time . in the short term , there be a huge backlog of overseas clinician wait to take the registration exam so that they can practise here . what step be the Secretary of State take to expedite this ? he be right that we be take both long - term and short - term action . a key part of the long - term workforce plan be to boost the number of dentist be train . in the more immediate term , early this year we make legislative change that give the General Dental Council the flexibility to improve the way professional be register , give more flexibility in term of the skill mix and , for example , triple the number of people sit part 1 this year , so that more overseas professional can be recognise and qualified to practise in the UK . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in Mid Bedfordshire last year , 165 child — [ interruption . ] I do not know why Government member be laugh ; perhaps they should listen , as it be not our party that have let down the people of Mid Bedfordshire . last year , 165 child in Mid Bedfordshire have tooth remove due to tooth decay . some 800 patient be force into A & E for the same reason and 100 , 000 people across the region can not get access to an NHS dentist . instead of laugh , the Government might like to adopt Labour ' s plan to provide 700 , 000 extra dentistry appointment every year . since 2010 , we have have 6 . 5 % more dentist , a quarter more appointment and , as we have just touch on , increase flexibility in regulation and boost overseas recruitment . it be strike that one area of the country that the shadow Secretary of State do not want to talk about be Wales , which have a record of what a Labour Government will deliver . indeed , the Leader of the Opposition say that he want Wales to be the " blueprint " for what the NHS would be in England . there , this week , we have see a fiddling of the figure on health . even without that fiddling , we know people be twice as likely to be on a waiting list in Wales as in England — Order . one of we have get to sit down and it be not go to be I . I let you have a good crack at the beginning , Secretary of State . your opening statement take quite a long time , which I do not mind . I do not mind your have a go about Wales , but I be certainly not go to open up a debate between the Government and Opposition Front Benches . topical question be for Back Benchers and about short question with short answer . I want it to be keep that way , so please understand that . there must be too many by - election , because member be get carry away . it be not just Mid Bedfordshire . across the country , the no . 1 reason child age six to 10 be admit to hospital be tooth decay . give that , will the Secretary of State at least adopt the modest measure that Labour have propose to introduce national supervise tooth brushing for small child — low cost , high impact — to keep their tooth clean and keep child out of hospital ? we be reform the NHS workforce more fundamentally , look at how we expand the role that dental hygienist and dental therapist can perform . we be look at how we can boost training , which be why we have make the commitment for more dentist in the long - term workforce plan , back by £ 2 . 4 billion . how do that help ? it increase the number of dentist be train and we have a quarter more activity compare with last year . can the Minister confirm that the £ 312 million capital investment to transform the Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust acute hospital be on track through the NHS approval process , with its outline business case , to enable a full business case to be conclude in the come month so that construction can commence during this financial year ? my right hon . friend have long champion this cause . I hope it be good news that I be able to confirm that enable work have recently be approve for the Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust hospital transformation programme and be expect to commence this financial year . I can also confirm that funding have be provide for the development of the full business case and be expect to be submit in the come month . I call the SNP spokesperson . new research by UNICEF UK have make clear how badly the cost of living crisis have hit the mental health of family with young child . rise price and service gutte by austerity have leave 60 % of parent feel overwhelmed , anxious , unsupported and lonely all or most of the time . what representation have the Secretary of State make to his Cabinet colleague ahead of the upcoming autumn statement to support family and to improve health outcome ? that show just how divorced the SNP line of questioning be from the reality of funding . the funding for mental health be £ 2 . 3 billion more this year than it be four year ago . we be fund 160 mental health crisis caf é s and we have a programme of mental health support team be roll out in our school , all of which be subject to Barnett consequential on which the Scottish Government receive money . this Government be commit to invest in mental health . that be what we be do . the question for the Scottish Government be why they be not get the same result that we be . Most supermarket practise place - base and price promotion mainly on ultra process food — food that play a key part in feed the obesity crisis . how can the Government well ensure that supermarket promote affordable , unprocessed and sustainable food , not food high in fat , sugar and salt , and , importantly how can we ensure that supermarket comply with the regulation ? we have already bring in restriction on the place that unhealthy food can be sell to stop pester power . that be on top of other measure that we be take on obesity such as the sugar tax , calorie labelling , the extra money for school sport , and the extra facility for young people . it be a serious issue and one on which we be take urgent action . I be go to ask a question about the shocking statistic of 85 , 000 people on the waiting list at Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital , but so poor be the Secretary of State ' s response to the question of my hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) about the dental desert that I will tell he a quick story . ukrainian refugee who come to my constituency be travel back to war - tear Ukraine to have their tooth see to because there be a well dental service there than in Norfolk and Norwich . what do he have to say to that ? as I have say , we have 6 . 5 % more dentist now than when we come to power . there be also a quarter more dental activity this year compare with last year . I understand why the hon . Gentleman do not want to talk about the investment that we be make on the elective programme in Norfolk , because it include fund for two new hospital in Norfolk through our new hospital programme and significant funding into diagnostic capacity , with a number of diagnostic centre be open in Norfolk , which he do not want to mention . my local hospital , North Tees , be tired , date and well beyond its life expectancy , with operate theatre too small to meet modern requirement , so I be hugely disappoint that my NHS trust fail even to apply for Government funding that could have build a new state - of - the - art surgical hub on the site . will my hon . friend work with I to ensure that the people of Stockton get the healthcare facility that they need ? we will always work with my hon . friend and the trust on capital improvement where need , but I be pleased to note that the trust have be allocate significant investment from national programme in recent year , which my hon . friend fight hard for , include £ 32 . 2 million from our community diagnostic centre programme , which will provide vital testing to local resident close to home , and £ 3 million from our A & E upgrade programme . we will of course continue to work closely with colleague in the NHS and the local trust to continue deliver for the people of Stockton . ten year on from the Francis report , the National Guardian ' s Office — for freedom to speak up — report that last year there be 937 case where whistleblower be not listen to and experience detriment . if we add that to 170 , 000 complaint , with 30 , 000 reach the parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , we can see that the complaint system across the NHS be defensive and dangerous . will the Secretary of State review the NHS complaint system , and embe a listen and learn culture and early intervention ? I discuss this with Henrietta Hughes , the patient safety champion , just yesterday as part of the sprint that we have commission in the Department in response to Martha ' s rule . we be do considerable work with NHSE colleague on how we well respond to the concern of patient , whether it be through the work on Martha ' s rule or the complaint process , and a significant amount of work be ongoing as part of that . the Secretary of State have see for himself the dilapidated steam generator at Kettering General Hospital . the new £ 34 million net zero energy plant design to replace they face challenge from rise cost and new design requirement . will he ensure that the final business case approval process for this new power plant be complete as soon as possible , so that spade can hit the ground on time in spring 2024 ? yes I will . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the way he have champion this issue . I have visit the hospital ; I have see it for myself . as he will be aware , the full business case be receive by the Department this morning . while the cost have increase , it be still within the wide funding envelope for the scheme on that site and I will do everything I can to expedite the process as he ask . in recent month , there be a concerted campaign from the public to prevent the closure of Park View Medical Centre in Liverpool , which be subsequently close by the Merseyside and Cheshire integrate care board . not long after the conclusion of the campaign , during which member of the public be turn up to board meeting , the ICB announce that 50 % of its meeting would now be hold exclusively in private . I for one do not believe that that be a coincidence . what would the Secretary of State ' s advice be to Merseyside and cheshire ICB on transparency and accountability , and be it not time we look at strengthen the guidance ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . I be not aware of that decision by the local ICB . as a principle , I think we can agree across the House that great transparency on such meeting be important , so I will follow up on that . the Government be make significant investment into Merseyside ; both Alder hey Children ' s Hospital and the Royal Liverpool University Hospital have be rebuild at significant cost as part of this Government ' s commitment to invest in the NHS estate in that area . will the Secretary of State join I in thank the outgoing chief executive of the South Western Ambulance Service , Will Warrender ? he come to join the service in the middle of covid , during very difficult time , and do a lot of work to help , and that come after his 32 year of public service in the Royal Navy . I be happy to join my hon . friend ; indeed , I be sure the whole House be happy to pay tribute to the exemplary public service Mr Warrender have provide , both in the Royal Navy and with the ambulance trust , and to wish he a very happy retirement . immunocompromise patient be face their fourth winter without adequate protection from covid , despite a new study show that they now comprise approximately 25 % of all covid hospitalisation , intensive care unit admission and death . in the last few day , some hospital have be give guidance to their staff that they should not even test for covid unless they be work on specific ward . after three and a half year , what be the Government go to do to put an end to this appalling situation , where some of the most clinically vulnerable patient be scared of access the healthcare they need for fear it could literally be a death sentence ? during the pandemic , as the hon . Lady know , the Government prioritise the clinically extremely vulnerable and significant investment go in there . we follow the guidance from the UK Health Security Agency about the right level of infection control . more widely , we need to look at what medicine be effective . if it relate to immunosuppressant , there be a big debate in summer 2022 about that issue and we keep the science under active review . I thank Ministers for their early helpful reply about NHS dentistry , but I be afraid the situation in Weston - super - Mare remain extremely worrying . local resident regularly say there be not a single local dentist accept new adult nhs patient , and many practice have actively reduce NHS work since the pandemic . I have push both NHS England and the local integrate care board , but all we have so far be PowerPoint presentation rather than bookable appointment . what hope can the Secretary of State offer to Westonians who have pay their taxis , but be not get any NHS dentistry in exchange ? my hon . friend be right . the amount of NHS dentistry be deliver in his ICB have go up in the last year , but we want to go far . the NHS have recently commission additional child ' s orthodontic capacity within his ICB , but through the action we be go to take , we will go far . I call Judith Cummins with the final question . have 100 % fracture liaison service coverage in England would prevent an estimate 74 , 000 fracture , include 31 , 000 hip fracture , over five year . will the Minister finally commit to 100 % fls coverage across England ? in the interest of brevity , I will actively look at that issue and write to the hon . Lady about it . Core School Budget Allocations ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Education if she will make a statement on the 2023 - 2024 core school budget allocation . as the Government confirm in a write ministerial statement yesterday , the Department for Education have correct an error in the notional allocation of the school national funding formula for 2024 - 2025 . those allocation be originally publish and notify to the House on 17 July 2023 . however , the Department have subsequently uncover an error make by official during the initial calculation of the national funding formula . specifically , there be an error processing forecast pupil number , which mean that the overall cost of the core school budget for 2024 - 25 would be 0 . 62 % great than allocate . the Department therefore issue new national funding formula allocation on 6 October to rectify that error as quickly as possible . the permanent secretary have apologise for the error in write to both the Chair of the Education Committee and the Secretary of State . the Secretary of State have instruct the permanent secretary to conduct a formal review of the quality assurance process surround the calculation and quality assurance of the NFF , with external and independent scrutiny . Peter Wyman CBE , the chair of the Institute of Charted Accountants in England and Wales , will lead the review . improvement have already be identify to ensure that similar mistake be not make . I would like to reassure the House that the error do not affect the overall level of school funding , which remain at £ 59 . 6 billion for 2024 - 25 . the Government continue to deliver , in full , the core school budget , which include funding for mainstream school and for high need . as I say , it will remain at £ 59 . 6 billion in 2024 - 25 — its high ever level in real term and , of course , in cash term . that be a percentage increase of 3 . 2 % compare with the current year of 2023 - 24 . through the school national funding formula , average funding be £ 5 , 300 per primary school pupil and £ 6 , 830 per secondary school pupil in 2024 - 25 , up from £ 5 , 200 and £ 6 , 720 respectively in 2023 - 24 . school have not yet receive their 2024 - 25 funding , so the correction of this error do not mean adjust any funding that school have already receive . likewise , the error will not impact on the publication of a dedicated school grant in December , or on when school will receive their final allocation for 2024 - 25 . the 2024 - 25 high need national funding formula allocation , which fund provision for child with complex special educational need and disability , be also unaffected by the error , as be other funding stream outside the NFF , include the teacher ' pay additional grant announce in the summer . I also clarify that the recalculation of the NFF for 2024 - 25 do not affect the affordability of the 2023 teacher ' pay award . there have be no change to the funding that be promise as part of the pay settlement in July and which the union agree mean that the pay award be properly fund . the Government recognise that the correction of the NFF error will be difficult for local authority and frustrating for some school leader , which be why the Department have rectify the error as quickly as possible . order . the Minister have take three , nearly four , minute . I hope that he be come to the end of his remark . this be my final sentence , Mr Speaker . the Department be work closely with school stakeholder , include union , to communicate this change and support school and local authority . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . since the House return from the summer recess , minister have be force to come here twice , first to explain how this Government leave school building in such a parlous state that many be now at risk of collapse , and now to explain that the Conservatives be take £ 370 million out of school ' budget allocation for next year . it be shambolic , it be chaotic , and our child deserve a lot well . I be glad that minister have listen to labour ' s call for an independent investigation , but what be the timeline for this review ? how will the review be report to the House , and how will member have a chance to scrutinise its finding ? we need to know much more , too . we need to know why , when the mistake be first identify in September , it be not until after the Conservative party conference in October that headteacher be finally notify . what support will school now receive to ensure that child ' s education do not suffer as a result of conservative incompetence ? rather than blame official , will the Secretary of State — wherever she be today — finally take some responsibility ? we all know that mistake happen , but this be not a one - off ; this be part of a much big pattern of conservative mismanagement right across the Department and right across Government for 13 long year , and it be our child who be pay the price . it be conservative mismanagement that bring we the RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — crisis in our school , that keep child at home as Ministers fail to resolve industrial action for month on end , and that be now see record number of teacher leave the profession , attainment gap widen and standard fall . it will fall to the next Labour Government to reset the relationship between Government , family and school , to show once again that it be labour that be the party of high and rise standard in our school . the hon . Lady refer to RAAC . we take the only decision that any responsible Government would take when the evidence change on RAAC in school building that surveyor have previously assess as not in a critical condition and we discover it be not safe for pupil to stay in those school . there be 174 school so far confirm with RAAC , which we have publish detail of , and we be take urgent action to make sure that no child or member of staff in our school building will be at risk from this reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — which , by the way , have be around through successive administration , both Labour and Conservative , since the 1950 and 1960 . the hon . Lady refer to £ 370 million be take out of the school budget . no money have be take out of the school budget . it be £ 59 . 6 billion next year , and it will remain at £ 59 . 6 billion . what would be irresponsible would be to increase funding for school by 0 . 62 % solely as a result of an error by official . that be not how Government spending system work . it have to go through the proper value for money procedure , and that be how we always conduct our allocation of taxpayer ' money . the hon . Lady talk about standard in school . we be rise in the international table . we be fourth in the world for the reading ability of nine - year - old , accord to the recent progress in international reading literacy study , or PIRLS , of pupil of that age . we be rise in TIMSS , the trend in mathematic and science study , and we be rise in PISA , the programme for international student assessment . that be in direct contrast with what happen under the last Labour Government , when we be fall in those PISA table . we come to the Chair of the Select Committee . I be grateful for the apology and the letter that the Select Committee receive on this issue , which we have publish today . clearly , it be deeply unfortunate that this error take place . it be a result of a complex and very difficult to understand funding system that provide school with a lack of transparency as to how their funding work in the long run . we be elect on a manifesto to deliver a fair national funding formula . there be plan in place to legislate for the direct funding of school . while I welcome my right hon . friend ' s confirmation that this do not in any way affect the high need block or take money out of the overall school budget , can he update the House on plan to deliver that direct funding formula , which , along with multi - year funding settlement , the Select Committee and the sector have be call for over many year ? yes , it be unfortunate , for which official and Ministers have apologise . it be frustrating , particularly for local authority that have to conduct their calculation — it be an error base on the coding of the pupil number . my hon . friend mention move to the direct funding formula . that be the intention of the Government , and the late edition of the national funding formula and high need technical briefing do say that we want ultimately to get to direct funding . many local authority be move their local funding formula ever close to the approach take in the national funding formula . I see a tweet to the Minister early this morning say that one man ' s error be another man ' s total cock - up — I do not know whether that be technical language , Mr Speaker . the fact of the matter be that he be the long - serve Minister in any Department in any Government for many year , and on his watch we have see the demoralisation of the education sector in our country , with good people leave . it be the Gibb factor . why do he not resign and talk to people ? if I may say so , Mr Speaker , that be an extraordinary outburst . today , we have the high number of teacher in the profession — some 468 , 000 — which be , by the way , 27 , 000 more than when we come to office in 2010 . in labour - run Wales , we be not see that rise in the number of teacher . naturally , this error be very disappointing , but I welcome that the Department have rectify it speedily . what step be my right hon . friend take to work with school stakeholder to communicate the change and to support school and local authority ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right : it be unfortunate . as a Minister , when official gather outside my office to tell I great news about an error that have be make , my instinct be always to find out what the error be and rectify it as quickly as possible . that take about four week , compare with the normal six week to calculate the NFF , and we then publish the figure as rapidly as possible . that be the approach that the Department and I have take . early this year , the Sutton Trust report that half of school leader say that they have already be force to cut back on trip and outing . that include cultural trip to concert and play , which often have a profound effect on young people who would not otherwise be able to attend those event . the average secondary school be now be tell that it will have around £ 58 , 000 less to spend than be announce in July — whatever the Minister say , those school will have plan on the basis of that money . I be concerned that even few young people will now be able to access the benefit of cultural trip . what be the Minister do to make sure that young people in state - fund school still have access to cultural experience that enrich their education ? the figure publish in July be indicative figure . they be use by local authority . once the October census come out with the pupil number , they then apply their local formula to those figure . that be the allocation that school use for their budgeting , and that happen around December . over the period between 2021 - 22 and 2024 - 25 , school funding have increase by 20 % , so there have be a very significant increase . I agree with the hon . member about the importance of cultural activity in school , which be why we have a cultural education plan that be be work on at the moment . one reason why this Minister have be in his post so long be that successive Prime Ministers have judge he to be rather good at his job . for the benefit of the House , can he confirm that the civil servant who discover the mistake make it know to Ministers at the first possible opportunity , and that Ministers make it know to the public at the first possible opportunity ? do that not reflect credit on our parliamentary democratic system ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his kind comment . he be absolutely right : as soon as we know about the error , I want to make sure that we be do everything we could to rectify it and find a solution to the problem that official and the Department have cause . that be my approach , and that be why we recalculate the whole of the national funding formula notional allocation as soon as we could and publish that detail on 6 October . for far too long , the Department for Education have be plague by a litany of failure that have have a devastating impact on child , their parent and teacher . we have have the mutant algorithm and the RAAC roof , we have a crisis in our SEND system , and now we have a bit of good old - fashioned incompetence . do the Minister agree that it be high time that the Secretary of State offer an apology to the british public for all this , or do he think that — in her word — we should thank she for do a flip good job ? the last flippant comment be not necessary ; these be all serious issue . issue such as RAAC have be around in our school system since the 1950 and 1960 . when we discover new fact and new evidence , we take swift action . there will always be almost no notice ; when we have evidence , we can not just sit on it until a more convenient time to announce it . we have to announce it straightaway . every school with confirm RAAC have a caseworker allocate to make sure that we be keep child safe and keep they in face - to - face education . so far , we have identify 174 school with RAAC and in the vast majority of those — all but 23 school — all the child be still in face - to - face education . in term of special educational need , we publish a Green Paper and an implementation plan to improve the experience of parent and child with special educational need in our school system . I thank my right hon . friend for the update . clearly , when formula such as this be be use , it be important that they be test first to see the result , before those be issue to the school and other people be involve . will he confirm that the position be that , even after this error have be correct , all school in this country will have enough money to fund the teacher ' pay award agree by the Government ? my hon . friend be right . I have to say that my experience of this particular team in the Department be that they be one of the good team I have deal with . this be an error make by official . they have own up to it and we have correct it . it do not affect school funding at all , and it relate to the next financial year , 2024 - 25 . it certainly do not affect this financial year , 2023 - 24 , and the funding of the pay award . incidentally , it be the high pay award for 30 year . the 6 . 5 % pay award for teacher be fully fund , with an extra teacher ' pay grant of £ 525 million this year and £ 900 million next year . it be totally unaffected by this error . cambridgeshire school be some of the lowest fund in England , and they will now receive £ 4 . 4 million less than they expect . the Minister will know that local authority official and school will now have to spend time recalculate their budget . what will he do to compensate they for the time they be spend on that ? the situation be unfortunate for local authority , which will have be spend time calculate their school budget on a local authority basis . that be why we want to get the recalculation of the figure do as soon as possible and out to local authority . Cambridgeshire be fund in the way it be because we base funding on the level of deprivation in our community . we have target a great proportion of the school national funding formula towards deprive pupil than ever before . in total , about £ 4 . 4 billion , or 10 % of the formula , will be allocate accord to deprivation factor in 2024 - 25 . if an area have few child from disadvantaged background than other area , that will of course be reflect in its overall ranking for local authority funding . last week I visit Meadgate Primary School , which be one of the many good and outstanding school in my constituency . I be sure the Minister will recall precisely how many good and outstanding school there be today , compare with 13 year ago . Meadgate Primary School be part of an academy trust of seven school , and across the school this situation could account for a £ 70 , 000 difference between what they have calculate they might expect and what they will receive . that be obviously concern , but also concern be the number of child now come in who would have have an education , health and care plan do when they be at pre - school , but do not get one because of the pandemic and now face delay . give that high need funding have double , will the Minister raise this backlog in assessment with the child ' s Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) , to try to make sure that our primary school be get the support they need today for those child with SEND ? I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for the great work that she do as child ' s Minister in the Department for Education . she be right that the proportion of school judge good or outstanding have increase . in 2010 , it be 68 % , and today that figure be 88 % . we be not happy with that — our focus be on the remain 12 % . every local school in our country should be a good or outstanding school . my right hon . friend make an important point about education , health and care plan . she be right that the funding of the high need budget have increase considerably over the past few year , and I will raise the issue of the backlog in ehcp with my hon . friend the child ' s Minister . I should say that we be build significant number of new free special school , so that there be more place available for child with severe special educational need . we know that a child grow up in an area of deprivation be on average likely to do less well through our school system . I take the point that the Minister make about extra funding for deprivation , but will he accept from I that we know that money make a difference ? when will this Government get a grip on the problem of deprivation ? deprivation and disadvantaged child have be the core drive force of all our reform since 2010 . we be spend record amount of money on school funding — £ 59 . 6 billion be the high ever in cash term , in real term and in real term per pupil . before the pandemic , we have close the attainment gap between disadvantaged child and other child by 13 % in primary school and by 9 % in secondary school . that have be undo by the pandemic , but we be determined to close that gap again . all the reform that lead to that closure be still in place , and we be confident , particularly with the £ 5 billion of recovery funding and the tutoring programme , that we will close that gap once again . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s answer today , and I thank he for his leadership and his ownership of this issue , which be not his fault . he have approach it in exactly the right manner , as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say . I welcome that we be continue to deliver the core school budget in full , not just for mainstream school , but for high need . will my right hon . friend the Minister set out what the percentage increase for those area will be in 2024 - 25 , compare with this year ? on the increase in funding last year and this year , funding be increase by £ 3 . 9 billion in 2022 - 23 and by £ 1 . 8 billion in 2024 - 25 . when we combine that with the £ 4 billion increase we have between 2021 - 22 and 2022 - 23 , that be a 20 % increase in cash term over that period . I write to the Secretary of State at the beginning of August , ask for a meeting to discuss a series of special educational need fund issue in Harrow . the Minister will be aware that special educational need be one of the many pressure on school budget across the country . they certainly be a significant issue in Harrow . can he explain specifically how much school in Harrow will now not receive , compare with what they have expect to receive ? will he encourage the Secretary of State to respond to my letter , and to do so with generosity ? I say first to the hon . member that no funding be be reduce in Harrow . all area will be receive significant increase in school funding . the error be about the allocation figure — the notional figure — for 2024 - 25 , and those have be correct . on special educational need , we have increase special educational need fund significantly over the past several year , because of the pressure that local authority be face with increase number of ehcp . we be take a number of measure to help address that , and I will of course ensure that the hon . Member have his meeting in the Department as soon as possible . this be yet another error and case of incompetence under this Government . the average primary school be expect to be more than £ 12 , 000 bad off next academic year and the average secondary school £ 57 , 000 bad off than under the July publication . how will the Government help headteacher in Slough and across the country deal with the extra stress and pressure on account of this error , especially when they have to make difficult decision on staffing and additional support for those pupil who need it ? the actual allocation to school happen in December each year in the normal way , so this situation will not affect the figure that local authority have inform school they will be receive . those be base on the October census of pupil number and the application of the local formula . we then fund the local authority on the basis of the national funding . the record funding of £ 59 . 6 billion equate to an average of £ 5 , 300 per primary school pupil and £ 6 , 830 per secondary school pupil . [ Official Report , 23 October 2023 , Vol . 738 , c . 3mc . ] the Minister ' s argument in a nutshell be , " you didn ' t have the money , so you ' ve not lose it . " but the point be that local authority receive the notional funding allocation and be begin to plan base on that figure give by the Government . in place such as Stockport , Tameside and Manchester , the figure that be go to be withdraw from those area be not insubstantial . I politely say to the Minister that his argument be incoherent — I will grade he d - minus . and his math be appal — I will grade he u . can I suggest he go into detention and fix this matter , because school in Tameside , Stockport and Manchester desperately need that cash ? the funding allocate for local authority be ringfence . this be an allocation and calculation issue — it be not that they have receive the money — and we correct it as soon as the error be make . any Labour Members in the same position would have react in precisely the same way that I have . this blunder be go to cost school in York dear . we be already in the bottom 20 in the country for school funding and in the bottom third for high need . I have a meeting with parent on Friday night , and 150 of they be in tear and on their knee about the SEN funding . the formula be just not work in area where there be low funding . will the Minister bring forward the fair funding formula to ensure that child in my constituency with SEND have fair funding allocate to they ? I understand the hon . Lady ' s point , and I share the concern of parent with child with special educational need and disability . we do want to make sure that local authority be properly fund for child with those special need , which be why we have increase funding for high need very significantly over the past few year . over £ 10 billion be now allocate to local authority for those child . if we look at the national funding formula , we see that 10 . 2 % of the formula — £ 4 . 4 billion — be on the basis of deprivation factor , and 17 . 8 % be allocate on the basis of additional need . these be very significant sum both in the national funding formula for mainstream school and the extra money we be give to local authority for high need . devolution ( Employment ) ( Scotland ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to amend the Scotland Act 1998 to grant legislative competence for employment matter to the Scottish Parliament . at the outset , I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as a member of the SNP trade union group and in relation to my own membership of Unite . as this Parliament begin to draw to a close , many of we be leave wonder why the much - vaunted Employment Bill never materialise . after all , we be promise that Brexit — now support enthusiastically by the Tories and Labour — would not lead to a diminution of worker ’ right , but would instead be an opportunity to enhance employment protection . despite countless fire and rehire incidence — many of which have be reference by my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) — ever more maternity discrimination and an assault on trade union right by a Tory Government act like Thatcher on steroid , the very opposite have happen . the fact be that employment right under this british Government be under attack . far from deal with workplace discrimination on issue such as the menopause , we have a government actively and increasingly hinder the right of worker with their Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 . it be a piece of legislation that even the International Labour Organisation have express concern about . as the world of work continue to evolve and we seek to build back well from the pandemic , Brexit Britain be now on a steep decline when it come to employment protection . however , this be an issue that extend far beyond the immediate right available to worker , because it be fundamentally a matter of equality . the way in which we value worker in our legislative framework set the expectation of what we should expect workplace culture to emulate , and legislation must help build the foundation of a fair and equal labour market . let we take , for example , some evidence publish in July by the charity Pregnant then screw . of 24 , 000 parent survey , it be find that 7 % of woman lose their job through redundancy , sack or feeling force to leave due to a flexible working request be deny . the charity estimate that , if scale up , this would mean that over 41 , 000 pregnant woman or mother could be sack or make redundant every year . under - represent group continue to face significant inequality in the workplace , and I and many of my colleague have stand here time and again call for the enshrinement of flexible working as a day - one right , as well as mandatory gender and ethnicity pay gap reporting . give the power , these be just some of the example of workplace injustice that the Scottish Government would seek to remedy . however , it be an inescapable truth that Westminster ' s crackdown on worker ’ right — not to mention the assault on union — have see the UK ' s global rating on worker ’ right fall . indeed , the UK have drop in the International Trade Union Confederation ' s annual report on worker ’ right from a rating of three , which be for country where ITUC consider there to be " regular violation of right " to four , which be for those where it say there be " systemic violation " . sadly , that put the british Government on a par with the like of Qatar and Oman . the latter be an absolute monarchy , where criticism of the Government be illegal . if that be the message the Government want to send out as Brexit Britain , it be certainly a bold move , but ITUC ' s recent report be damn . it say : " in the United Kingdom , union busting , attempt to introduce legislation curtail the right to strike and protest , and violation of collective bargaining agreement have become systematic and lead to the country ' s rating drop from three to four . " perhaps it be no wonder that the devolution of employment law be back by some of the big trade union in these island , include the Scottish Trades Union Congress and the TUC itself . only recently , the Trades Union Congress pass a motion call for the repeal of current anti - union legislation and the devolution of employment law to Scotland . Roz Foyer , the outstanding STUC general secretary , be on record as say : " it ' s clear , especially to any incoming UK Labour Government , that the voice of worker across the country now support the Scottish Parliament have full autonomy over labour and employment right . " that pose a question for our colleague on the labour Benches : why not Scotland ? in his rush to out - Union Jack even the Secretary of State for Scotland , the hon . member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) have say no , nay , never — no further devolution . today ' s vote be also a first test for the new hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) . it pose a question for he when the Division bell ring shortly : whose side be he on ? be he on the side of the Scottish Trades Union Congress , or the side of his Westminster boss in Camden ? on block the devolution of employment law , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) have come in for criticism from Michael Sharpe , a former general secretary of Scottish Labour , who have say that rule out the devolution of employment law be a " huge blow " and " a slap in the face to the trade union who have campaign for this for many year . " since take over the rein as Labour leader , the Leader of the Opposition have move ever more to the right , distance himself from trade union and , ironically , decide to go on strike from attend picket line himself . we have even have the spectre of shadow Ministers be sack simply for have the temerity to support worker on a picket line . the blunt reality be that Scotland be already miss out on Europe ' s enhancement of worker ’ right , thank to a Brexit we do not vote for and do not support . Post pandemic , we could have be take opportunity to empower trade union , increase statutory sick pay , ban fire and rehire , and do so much more for worker , but it appear once more that the Labour party and the Conservatives have land in the exact same space . it be clear to we that a Westminster Government of whatever colour do not have worker ’ right as a priority . it be only by give Scotland power over employment law that the Scottish Government can entrench worker ' right in law and build a fair work society for all our citizen . we can and we must do so much well for our worker and our trade union . if Westminster be not up to the job , Holyrood will take this on , and work people will be well off as a result . it be for that reason , and with the support of our trade union colleague , that I commend this motion to the House . question put ( Standing Order no . 23 ) . Hannah Bardell Steven Bonnar Amy Callaghan Joanna Cherry Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patrick Grady Claire Hanna Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Chris Stephens Owen Thompson Kirsty Blackman Gavin Newlands Peter Aldous Scott Benton Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Robert Buckland Greg Clark Elliot Colburn David Duguid Liam Fox Robert Goodwill Chris Grayling Sally - Ann Hart Philip Hollobone Bernard Jenkin Andrew Jones David Jones Tim Loughton Karl McCartney Nigel Mills Jill Mortimer Lia Nici Matthew Offord Mark Pawsey John Penrose Angela Richardson Greg Smith Royston Smith Iain Stewart Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Steve Tuckwell William Wragg Hywel Williams Alan Brown the House divide : Ayes 22 , Noes 33 . question accordingly negative . Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 4 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 8 June 2022 ( Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill : Programme ) , as vary by the Orders of 22 September 2022 ( Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill : Programme ( no . 2 ) ) and 23 November 2022 ( Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill : Programme ( no . 3 ) ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at 5 . 00pm at today ' s sit . ( 2 ) the Lords Amendments shall be consider in the following order : 117 , 231 , 237 , 369 , 1 , 2 , 4 , 3 , 6 , 10 , 13 , 14 , 18 , 22 , 30 , 31 , 44 to 46 , 80 to 82 , 90 , 102 , 103 , 133 , 134 , 137 , 139 , 142 , 156 , 157 , 172 , 180 , 199 , 239 to 243 , 288 , 244 , 249 , 273 , 280 , 285 , 327 , 329 , 5 , 7 to 9 , 11 , 12 , 15 to 17 , 19 to 21 , 23 to 29 , 32 to 43 , 47 to 79 , 83 to 89 , 91 to 101 , 104 to 116 , 118 to 132 , 135 , 136 , 138 , 140 , 141 , 143 to 155 , 158 to 171 , 173 to 179 , 181 to 198 , 200 to 230 , 232 to 236 , 238 , 245 to 248 , 250 to 272 , 274 to 279 , 281 to 284 , 286 , 287 , 289 to 326 , 328 , 330 to 368 , 370 to 418 . subsequent stage ( 3 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 4 ) proceeding on the first of any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . ( 5 ) proceeding on any subsequent message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) question agree to . Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill Consideration of Lords amendment I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 46 , 73 to 75 , 78 , 82 , 231 , 241 , 249 , 301 to 327 and 349 to 367 . if any of these Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . clause 148 - Guidance I beg to move amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 117 . with this it will be convenient to consider : government amendment ( b ) to ( d ) to Lords amendment 117 . lord amendment 231 , and Government amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 237 , and Government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) . lord amendment 369 , and Government amendment ( a ) , ( c ) , ( b ) and ( d ) . lord amendment 1 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 2 and 4 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 3 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 6 , Government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( d ) in lieu . lord amendment 10 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 13 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 14 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( p ) in lieu . lord amendment 18 , Government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 22 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 30 and 31 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( d ) in lieu . lord amendment 44 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 45 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 46 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 80 , and government motion to disagree . Lords amendment 81 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) in lieu . lord amendment 82 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 90 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 102 and 103 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( d ) in lieu . lord amendment 133 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 134 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 137 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 139 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 142 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 156 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 157 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 172 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 180 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 199 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 239 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) in lieu . lord amendment 240 , Government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) in lieu . lord amendment 241 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 242 , 243 and 288 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( d ) in lieu . lord amendment 244 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 249 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 273 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 280 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 285 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 327 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 329 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 5 , 7 to 9 , 11 , 12 , 15 to 17 , 19 to 21 , 23 to 29 , 32 to 43 , 47 to 79 , 83 to 89 , 91 to 101 , 104 to 116 , 118 to 132 , 135 , 136 , 138 , 140 , 141 , 143 to 155 , 158 to 171 , 173 to 179 , 181 to 198 , 200 to 230 , 232 to 236 , 238 , 245 to 248 , 250 to 272 , 274 to 279 , 281 to 284 , 286 , 287 , 289 to 326 , 328 , 330 to 368 and 370 to 418 . the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill have have a lengthy passage . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to all my predecessor in my role and to colleague across the Department who have shepherd the Bill to its position . the Bill reflect the huge importance of level up for the future of the country . for decade , successive government have fail to address the inequality of opportunity in our country . economic growth have for too long be concentrate in a select few area . the Bill will ensure that this government and future government set clear , long - term objective for address entrenched geographic disparity . the Bill will expand and deepen devolution across England . it will devolve power to all area in England where there be demand for it , allow local leader to regenerate their town and city and restore pride in place by create a new institutional model more suitable for devolution to whole - county area outside city region that have more than one council : the combine county authority . I do not know what the Minister be go to say about Lords amendment 14 , but if she be agin it , will she reassure I that the voice of district council will not be lose in combine county authority , which would create a disparity of the type that she be out to remove in the Bill ? I thank my right hon . friend for his view . I will come on to address that point substantially in my remark . we be modernise our planning system , put local people at its heart so that it deliver more of what community want . the reform system will champion beautiful design in keep with local style and preference and ensure that development be sustainable and accompany by the infrastructure that community will benefit from . the Bill far strengthen protection for the environment so that well outcome be at the heart of planning decision . I be pleased to be able to inform the House that we have reach agreement with both the Welsh and Scottish government on a UK - wide approach to environmental outcome report in part 6 of the Bill . may I welcome the amendment that the Government table in the other place that will have the effect of address the issue I raise on Second reading about the propensity of developer simply to clear a site in advance , with no regard for the wildlife on it at all ? we have a controversial case of that happen only last week . I think the amendment will make a real difference and stop that terrible practice happen . it be a good example of the Government ' s commitment to wildlife and the environment . I be grateful to the Minister . I thank my right hon . friend from the bottom of my heart for all the work he have do to protect wildlife both in his constituency and across the country . hedgehog will be a lot safe for his determined work — and not only hedgehog but all other specie of our beloved wildlife . will the Minister give way ? I will give way shortly . we have commit to resolve a related anomaly by reinstate a devolve regulation - make function for the Scottish Government on Electricity Act 1989 consent . that be lose follow the repeal of the European Communities Act 1972 . our government will work together to transfer function so that power lose in the repeal of that Act can be reinstate , use exist process under the Scotland Act 1998 . since the Bill leave this House , the Government have make a number of amendment to improve it . for example , we have address the issue of the payment of compulsory purchase hope value compensation by remove hope value from certain type of scheme where there be justification in the public interest . part 11 of the Bill have be refine in response to concern raise by the House about the need to specify the purpose for which the new information - gather power may be use . to bolster the Bill ' s benefit for the environment , we have reduce opportunity for incentive for site clearance before development , just as we hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Chris Grayling ) , and include a clear requirement for plan maker to take into account the content of local nature recovery strategy . I turn to the change add by peer in the other place . part 1 of the Bill provide the foundation to address entrenched geographic disparity across the UK . we have hear call to be clear on the third round of the levelling - up fund and table an amendment that add a duty to lay a statement before each House of Parliament within three month of Royal Assent about the allocation of level - up fund round 3 . our view differ from those in the other place . we do not think that there be any connection between that further clarity on the levelling - up fund and the publication of the statement of level - up mission . therefore , we do not think it be necessary to bring forward the lay date of the statement of level - up mission as propose in Lords amendment 1 . we have be clear that the first statement of level - up mission will contain the mission from the levelling up White Paper . mission may need to evolve over time and , if the detail of mission appear in the Bill , the process to adjust they in the future will become unhelpfully rigid and time - consume . therefore , in response to Lords amendment 2 and 4 , seek mission on child poverty and health disparity , the Government have table an amendment that require the Government to consider both economic and social outcome in decide their levelling - up mission . that mean that we retain that vital flexibility for future government to set mission accord to the most important press issue of the day , while recognise that social outcome such as child poverty and health inequality be essential factor when decide mission . we be not able to accept Lords amendment 3 , which would define criterion for assess the success of level up , because those criterion will inevitably change as the datum we have evolve . however , give the strength of feeling , I be pleased to announce that the Government can commit to publish an analysis of geographical disparity alongside the first statement of mission . link to that , there have be call for more specific reporting on level up and rural proofing in Lords amendment 6 . we strongly agree that level up must work for all type of community , not just those in urban centre . will my hon . friend give way on that point ? I will just finish this remark , and I will certainly give way to my former ministerial colleague . the Department for Environment , Food , and Rural Affairs already publish an annual rural proofing report , which reflect the Government ' s consideration of rural challenge across policymake . as someone proud to represent a predominantly rural community , do my hon . friend agree that one of the good way to level up in rural area be by ensure that those area get strong devolution deal with strong local leadership ? order . just a little reminder that if member intervene on a speaker , it be customary to stay until the end of their speech . I want to reiterate my thank to my former colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) , who do so much to shepherd the Bill to its current position . I completely agree with she . the good way to ensure level up across the country be by vote Conservative , because we have do more than any other Government to spread opportunity around the country . to avoid anything that would duplicate the work I just mention , we have table an amendment that will require the Government to have regard to the need of rural community in prepare the statement of level - up mission . that be consistent with the approach we have take in other area , include with respect to the devolved administration . we have hear the concern highlight through Lords amendment 199 on access to banking facility for community , and we share those concern . Branch closure be commercial decision for bank , and we do not believe that a blanket requirement on local authority to produce strategy to inhibit that would be effective or proportionate . instead , the Treasury will continue to support the roll - out of alternative service , such as banking hub , which will ensure that community across the country have access to the facility they need . on Lords amendment 199 , a lot of constituent have write to I with their concern about bank closure . in West Kirby in my constituency , when the last bank close next year there will be a banking hub , but it will not meet the need of everyone across the constituency . do the Minister agree that bank , post office and so forth be incredibly important , particularly for those who be not able to or do not have the facility to access the internet and do their transaction online ? will she reconsider that position ? the hon . Lady make some good point . as I say , we agree on the importance of those service , particularly for the rural community that we represent . that be why we be push through with the other work be do by our colleague in the Treasury , and with the banking service model . turn to combine county authority , the Government have hear the strength of feeling in both Houses about combine county authority associate member voting right , and the combine authority boundary change . the Government be therefore content to remove the ability to vote from associate member of both combine authority and combine county authority , the latter of which be call for by Lords amendment 14 . we be also content to accept the requirement that must be satisfied before local government area be add to an exist combined authority for the first nine month after Royal Assent , as propose in Lords Amendment 18 . the Government have accordingly table amendment in lieu , which we hope the House will support . the core feature of combined county authority be that only upper tier local authority can be constituent member . that principle be essential to ensure devolution , and its benefit can be expand to two - tier area . the House will not need reminding of several previous devolution deal negotiation for combined authority that have fail in these area , despite majority support for the deal . allow non - constituent member of a combine county authority to become full member would undermine our effort to address the problem in future and would reduce the effectiveness of devolution in those area . we remain of the view that combined county authority must engage all relevant stakeholder , and wish for district council to have vote right on issue pertain to they , but they must be establish at local level . let I reassure the House that the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , who be next to I on the Front Bench , be have detailed discussion with district on that point . give the Minister ' s enthusiasm for devolution and the wish to spread investment more sensibly around the country , what extra power will local community have to decide what be a realistic number of new home in any give area ? I will address that matter in due course , so I hope my right hon . friend will allow a little patience . I would like to reinforce what my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) say about the concern at district council level that they may be sideline in combined authority . we have receive a persuasive letter from New Forest District Council , and I would like the Minister to reassure the House that her pledge that they can vote on area relevant to they will be honour . New Forest mp be definitely speak up for their resident today . my right hon . friend will have see the Levelling up Minister next to I ; he have hear that vital point . these matter must be decide locally , but I can reassure both my right hon . friend the Members for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) and for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) that their voice have be hear and those point will be consider in future arrangement . it be our strong view that one of the core principle of local democracy be that citizen can attend council meeting to interact in person with their local representative . there be no limit place on authority broadcast their meeting online and we do not agree that councillor should be able to attend those meeting and cast their vote remotely . it be important that they be present , active participant in local democracy . therefore , the Government be not able to support Lords amendment 22 . the Bill remove a key barrier to transfer police and crime commissioner function to combine authority Mayors , a long - stand Government commitment . those power do not permit the removal of a police and crime commissioner in favour of a mayor mid - term , as some have suggest . the power simply allow the May 2024 mayoral election to elect the Mayor as the next police and crime commissioner for an area , where mayor request that the election be conduct on that basis . it be to allow the proper preparation for , and administration of , those election that the Government be seek to commence the provision upon Royal Assent , and so we be unable to support Lords amendment 273 . turn to planning , we have hear the strength of feeling across both Houses about the need for national development management policy to be produce transparently , with clear opportunity for scrutiny . we have therefore strengthen the consultation requirement in the Bill , to make it clear that consultation will take place in all but exceptional circumstance , or where a change have no material effect on the policy . draft policy will also need to be subject to environmental assessment , which in itself will require consultation . that will give everyone with an interest in these important policy — the public and parliamentarian alike — the opportunity to scrutinise and influence what be propose . housing provision have be raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) . will the Minister give way ? will my right hon . Friend allow I to finish my point , and then I will gladly give way ? as our exist policy make clear , it be important that every local plan be found on a clear understanding of the housing need in the area . in response to Lords amendment 82 , we have table an amendment that put that important principle into law : plan should take into account an appropriate assessment of need , include the need for affordable home . any assessment of need be only a starting point for plan make ; it will remain the case that local planning authority will make their own assessment of how much of that need can be accommodate . will the Minister assure the House that the compromise set out in the Secretary of State ' s letter to colleague of 5 December last year will be implement ? it be an important way to amplify local control over what be build in a neighbourhood , while still deliver the volume of new home that we need . I thank my right hon . friend for raise that point , which I think be a matter of interest to all colleague . she will know that we have have an exceptionally high level of interest in the consultation on the national planning policy framework , with over 25 , 000 respondent across the country . that demonstrate the keen interest of parliamentarian and their constituent in this important issue . she will know that official need to work through those response , as they be do directly with she and other , before we make propose change . official will continue to work with she and other colleague , and we look forward to publish the update document shortly . to be clear , the position remain as outline in the Secretary of State ' s letter of December 2022 . the Minister be endeavour to strike the right balance in a tricky area . do she agree with I , as a former Housing Minister — there be one or two in this place — that actually the most important thing beyond what happen in Westminster be that local authority get their local plan in place ? we have a liberal Democrat - run council in Elmbridge . it do not have a plan in place and have not for year . that be what expose the green belt and unwanted development such as the Jolly Boatman site which local community do not want . I thank my right hon . friend and esteemed predecessor in my role . I will come on to speak a bit more about the " banana " policy of the liberal Democrats later in my remark . for the avoidance of doubt , that stand for — rise — no . the hon . Lady will have her chance to speak later . it stand for " build absolutely nothing anywhere near anyone " . that be their policy . the whole House and the whole country know it . we on the conservative Benches be build the home that the country need . my right hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Dominic Raab ) be absolutely right to say that where local authority have a local plan more house be build , and that where local authority do not produce a local plan they be fail their resident and let down future generation who will live in those area . I will not take any more intervention now ; I need to make some more progress . the Government agree that it be vital for local planning authority to have the resource they need to deliver an effective planning service . on 20 July , we lay draft affirmative regulation that , if approve by Parliament , will increase planning fee by 35 % for major application and 25 % for all other application . this be a national fee increase that will benefit all local planning authority in England . we be also undertake a programme , with funding , to build capacity and capability in local planning authority . the Government do not believe that enable authority to vary fee and charge be the way to answer resource issue . it will lead to inconsistency of fee between local planning authority and do not provide any incentive to tackle inefficiency . it would also create significant financial cost to the taxpayer . we do not require the fee income to be formally ringfence , as there be already a requirement through primary legislation for planning fee to be use for the function of determine application . we have be very clear that local planning authority should use the income from planning fee to fund their service . that will allow they to build their capability and capacity , and improve their performance . therefore , the Government be not able to support Lords amendment 82 . on the environment , the Government agree that the planning system must support our effort to meet our legal net zero commitment by 2050 and to tackle the risk of climate change . we have commit to update the national planning policy framework to ensure it contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation as fully as possible . what be crucial , however , be that we address climate change in a way that be effective without be unnecessarily disruptive or give rise to excessive litigation for those seek to apply the policy once they be make . that be why we can not support Lords amendment 45 . I congratulate the Minister on her stewardship of the Bill . it be clear that it will be to the further benefit of the environment and devolve power democratically in term of local decision making . do she agree that it be this Conservative Government that be good for level up , whereas the other political party in this Chamber constitute no progress at all and will bring no progress in the unlikely event they be ever put in that position ? be not the fact of the matter that , both democratically and transparently , it be the policy she be set out and the position of this government that will be for the benefit of the whole country ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend . I think Northampton North speak for the whole House on this issue . with that , I will give way to my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) . my hon . Friend say , very importantly , that we will be get an update to the NPPF to reflect the change make in the Bill . can she give we an idea when we will get it ? we be promise it before the summer and then we be promise it in September . when will the House and the country actually see the update NPPF ? I recognise that there be a keen appetite to see the update . as I set out early , there have be a huge amount of work to analyse the very significant volume of response . we will be bring forward the update as soon as the Bill receive Royal Assent . will the Minister give way ? I be not go to give way at the moment , I be afraid . the Government agree that the quality of our home be vital , but we do not agree that further legislation be need to achieve that . the healthy home principle contain in Lords amendment 46 , 327 and 249 cut across build safety , building standard , building regulation , plan policy and design . they be already consider and address through those well - establish system . I be truly grateful to the Minister for give way . in its late progress report , the Climate Change Committee be clear that plan policy need what it call " radical reform " to support net zero . will the Minister therefore say more about her bewilder decision not to accept Lords amendment 45 , which would simply ensure that all national plan policy decision , local planning making and individual development decision be in line with net zero ? if the Government be serious about want net zero to be a priority , why would they not ensure that all their planning decision support net zero , rather than undermine it ? I have set out that , of course , the planning system put the environment and net zero at the heart of all its work . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way . I just want to go back to the point about the Government come forward with the NPPF . she indicate that it would appear very quickly after Royal Assent . presumably the Bill will receive Royal Assent very quickly , so surely that piece of work must be almost ready . why can we not see it soon rather than later ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . we very much hope we will , with the consent of the House after these debate , see the Bill receive Royal Assent . we be work at pace to bring forward the long - await detail that she and other be rightly press for . will the Minister give way on healthy home ? I will come to colleague very shortly . I want to say a few word about healthy home , which I think my hon . friend may want to speak about . the Government do not agree that an additional regulatory framework to promote healthy home , include a schedule set out the principle and process for provide a statement , be necessary , because it be already consider and address through well - establish system . I understand why the Government be resist Lords amendment 46 , a cross - party amendment from Lord Crisp , Lord Young of Cookham and Lord Blunkett . I understand what the Government be say . at the moment , a big Select Committee inquiry be under way into prevention and we be look at healthy home . be the Minister satisfied that the Government be address the fact that poor - quality housing be a major determinant of ill health that cut across inequality and be directly comparable to that ? be the Minister satisfied that all the stuff in the letter yesterday from the Secretary of State to all Members be in place to address that inequality ? I thank the Chair of the Health Committee for all the work he be do on this issue . I will read his report with great interest . I draw the House ' s attention to the work that the Government and the Department be do to tackle the damp and mould that be in so many house and that cause the tragic death of Awaab Ishak . it be always right that we look to see what more we can do . will the Minister give way ? I need to make progress . on the important issue of building in flood risk area , which be raise in the other place , amendment 80 be well intentione but would have wholly impractical implication . under the amendment , a ban on residential development in land identify as flood zone 3 would take no account of flood defence and where , in reality , it be safe to build . for example , some 60 % of the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham lie in flood zone 3 , as do many part of Westminster . planning policy and guidance make it clear that residential development be not compatible with functional floodplain , and should not be approve . there be strong policy and guidance in place to prevent residential development where that would be genuinely unsafe . in high - risk area , such development be only acceptable when there be no reasonably available site with a low risk of flooding , when the benefit of development outweigh the risk , and when it can be demonstrate that the development can be make safe for its lifetime without increase flood risk elsewhere and , where possible , will reduce flood risk overall . I appreciate that the wording of Lords amendment 80 be not suitable give its likely scope , but flooding be a big issue in my constituency . it have affect a number of building site , the Linden Grove development be just one example . can the Minister assure I that the wide panoply of power available to the Government , include the forthcoming planning policy framework , will create the infrastructure and apparatus necessary to ensure that a robust system will be in place to prevent flooding from affect future housing development ? I can , with pleasure , give that assurance to my hon . friend ' s constituent , and to those in other flood - risk area . we have consider this matter very carefully . we have strengthen plan policy and guidance , and put capacity into local authority to enable they to assess risk properly . we believe that the policy strike the right balance between allow house building where it be safe and , of course , protect home from flood in the future . we be grateful for the constructive discussion that have take place on the important topic of ancient woodland . we be content to accept the principle of Lords amendment 81 , which mean that within three month of Royal Assent we will amend the Town and Country Planning ( Consultation ) ( England ) Direction 2021 to require local planning authority to consult the Secretary of State if they want to grant planning permission for development affect ancient woodland . that clause will ensure that a Government commitment make during the passage of the Environment Act 2021 be enact to a specify timeframe . ancient woodland be already highly protect . will the Minister consider how this will interact with major infrastructure delivery in line with the commitment that she have give ? I be particularly mindful of the fact that in Dover we be seek an upgrade of the A2 , which have already be plan to take account of ancient woodland . I be keen for that to progress , take account of the exist environmental consideration . my hon . friend be an excellent champion of infrastructure and housing in her constituency and , of course , throughout the country . she have make an important point , and I should be pleased to meet she and , possibly , her local representative to talk about it in more detail . last month , in response to the concern of member of both Houses , the Government make change to the national planning policy framework in relation to onshore wind , which be design to make it easy and quick for local planning authority to consider and , where appropriate , approve onshore wind project when there be local support . we need to allow time for those change to take effect , so we will keep the policy under review , and will report in due course on the number of new onshore wind project progress from planning application through to consent . we also intend to update planning practice guidance to support the change far , and to publish our response to the local partnership consultation for onshore wind in England . the response will set out how , beyond the planning system , the Government intend to improve the type of community benefit that be on offer for community who choose to host onshore wind project , include local energy bill discount . conservative colleague and I , along with the Minister ' s Department , work together to end the de facto banning of onshore wind , and I be grateful for that . however , as the Minister have acknowledge , we need to see whether this policy be work , and a key determinant of that will be whether onshore wind really have meaningful community benefit . the consultation close three and a half month ago ; will the Minister tell we when we will see its conclusion ? I be not suggest that she should pre - empt those now , but could she also specify some of the likely monetary benefit that might flow to community , so that we could have an indication that the Government be move in the right direction ? I thank my right hon . friend for what he have say , and for all the vital work that he do in his previous role in take forward the country ' s reaction to climate change . this be a key plank of our policy . our commitment to renewable be beyond question , and we have do more to drive forward that agenda with the help of my right hon . friend and other . I have be discuss some of the question he have raise today with my colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , because I think people want to see what this mean in practice for their community . we have some exciting work plan , and I can assure he that , as I have say in response to early intervention , we will provide the response to the NPPF — which cover this and other matter — as soon as we can . the Government remain committed to repeal the antiquated Vagrancy Act 1824 as soon as replacement legislation can be introduce , and once that have happen there will be no need to publish a report . lord amendment 240 would require a Minister to publish , within 90 day of Royal Assent , an assessment of the impact of the enforcement section of the Vagrancy Act on level up and regeneration . give our commitment to the repeal and replacement of the Act , and because identify and gather the information would take significant time , we propose that a year should be provide rather than 90 day . to ensure that the leaseholder protection on remediation work as originally intend in the Building Safety Act 2022 , we have table an amendment to remedy a gap in the Act so that a qualifying lease retain its protection if extend , varied , or replace by an entirely new lease . we do not , however , agree that Lords amendment 242 , which would secure parity between non - qualify and qualifying leaseholder , and exclude share in a property of 50 % or less from be count as " own " for the purpose of calculate whether a lease qualifie for the protection , should be accept . there be a number of defect in the amendment ; in particular , it would remove the protection once remediation work be complete , which a number of stakeholder have describe to we as a potentially worrying change . the Government make amendment to the Bill — clause 239 and 240 — which will allow we to transfer the building safety regulator out of the Health and Safety Executive in the future . that will ensure that we be ready , and have the flexibility in place , to respond to the Grenfell Tower inquiry report when it be publish . when the regulator be move , the essential committee establish under section 9 to 11 of the Building Safety Act will need to be transfer . we be therefore unable to accept an amendment that prevent we from remove the reference to the Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 in relation to the committee . I should , however , make it clear that the Government have no intention of amend the make - up or role of those committee . the Government take the condition of school and hospital building very seriously , which be why we already have extensive , well - establish and transparent data collection arrangement for school and hospital . in addition to annual funding and central rebuilding programme , we provide targeted support for school and hospital with specific problem such as reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . the creation of a new register , collect new datum and follow up relatively minor issue easily manage locally , will take limited resource and focus away from the most serious issue which require additional support to keep our school and hospital safe , undermine overall safety . that would carry unavoidable significant financial implication for both the NHS and the school system . the Government have listen to the argument about local authority open their own childcare provision . while we do not feel that there be a legislative gap , we be willing to concede that point in full , and an amendment will be add to the Bill . you will be delighted to know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I be near the end of my remark , but I have no doubt that you will hear from the Opposition Front Bench a torrent of complaint and criticism of the Government ' s entire policy . before we hear from they , however , let I make a few thing clear . despite have listen to numerous speech from Opposition Front Benchers , I have no idea what their plan be for this vital policy area — apart from the rare instance in which they have simply repeat , and pass off as their own idea , what the Government be already do . they claim that they would magically make all these thing happen without any additional public spending . oh , I be sorry ; perhaps I have miss their saying where they will spend the vat charge on private school , for possibly the ninth or 10th time . we can all see that for the fantasy it be . let we look at the Opposition ' s record . just last month , the Leader of the opposition claim that Labour be the party of the builder , not the blocker , yet in the next breath he order his Labour Lords to stick to defective EU law , block 100 , 000 home and vote down Government plan to unblock nutrient neutrality and protect the environment , mean that desperately need affordable home , care home and brownfield regeneration project in town centre still languish unbuilt — [ interruption . ] from a sedentary position , the shadow Levelling up Secretary , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , ask why we do not accept their amendment . she never put forward any proposal . she do not put forward any amendment . Labour Members vote our down without a single plan of their own . no surprise there . will the Minister give way ? I be not give way . the Leader of the Opposition say that his be now the party of the yimby . we all want housing for our own child and grandchild — I be a mother of four ; my second grandchild , Henry , be bear just last night — so this Government stand squarely behind the aspiration of family across the country to buy a home of their own and get on the housing ladder . but what have we see from Labour ? at least 19 member of the shadow Cabinet have conspire to block house be build in their own constituency , include the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne and the Leader of the Opposition himself , who just two year ago vote to protect the right of community to object to individual planning application . that be what he vote for in this place , yet he now say that local community will be completely ignore . presumably what he mean be that what be okay for he be not okay for anyone else . he want to rip up the protection for precious green space , not just on the green belt but on the brownfield site . of course these be a vital aspect of our brownfield - first planning policy , but they often also form a vital green lung in heavily urbanised area — [ interruption . ] there be an awful lot of chuntering from Labour Front Benchers . they do not like what I be say , but I will not be shout down in stand up for house building across the country . I would like to refer to a quote : " green space be vital in our community to give child a safe place to play and to enhance community well - be . " not my word but the word of the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne , who go on to say : " I want resident to know they have my support in their bid to stop contractor enter the site to start build . " I hope that the Leader of the Opposition have explain his position clearly to the resident of Mid Bedfordshire and Tamworth , who I be sure will be interested to know exactly which site on their green belt , urban brownfield and rural farmland the Labour party would like to determine , at the stroke of a north London lawyer ' s pen , should be build over with zero regard to local community . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way . there be no credibility at all on the Labour Front Bench . you do not have to take my word for it ; just look at housing delivery in London and in Wales , where Labour have be in government , with all the power , funding and lever , for many year . it have an atrocious record on house building , housing delivery and affordable house building . it be hardly surprising , when house building fall to the low level since the 1920s the last time Labour be in government . that , along with everything else , be something that the Conservatives have to sort out when we take office . we be on track to deliver our manifesto pledge to build 1 million home during this Parliament , with housing delivery at near - record 30 - year high . we be not complacent , and we need to deliver more of the right home in the right place . that be why the Prime Minister and the Housing Secretary set out our long - term plan for housing in July — a plan base on the principle of build beautiful , with home build alongside GP surgery , school and transport link , where community be listen to and where we enhance the natural environment and protect our green space . it be a plan where we will build beautiful neighbourhood model on the street of Maida Vale , the crescent of Bath or the rural and suburban vernacular of Poundbury , not on soulless dormitory town . now I shall turn to the Liberal Democrats . even by their own standard , we have see the most extraordinary fiasco unfold within their party . I have to hand it to they : their balancing act be pretty impressive . they be take the high - rise tightrope walk art of hold two entirely different position at the same time to newly dizzying height . historically , the Lib Dems have be the BANANA party — build absolutely nothing anywhere near anyone — but amid incredible scene , their youth wing have throw out the yellow bendy fruit and force on the party a top - down whitehall - drive target of 380 , 000 house a year . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not give way . the hon . Lady can speak later . this policy have be describe by the Lib Dems ' own former leader — order . just a little reminder that we be on Lords amendment . I be sure the Minister will be refer her remark back to the relevant one . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . we do discuss the matter of housing target in the Lords debate . the Lib Dems ' policy to have 380 , 000 house a year — that be certainly this week ' s policy — have be describe by their own former leader as Thatcherite . so anyone contemplate vote Liberal Democrat need to know what this mean . I be afraid that they can no long sustain a position of object to every single house be build in their area , or avoid make local plan to give community a proper say over housing and the green belt . as we have see with so many liberal Democrat local authority , they have kick the can down the road and fail their resident . I shall finish by express my gratitude to all my colleague , both here and in the other place , for their continued and dedicated engagement with this complicated and complex Bill during its passage . we have listen carefully to the view of member on both side of the House , stakeholder and member of the public . the amendment we have make to the Bill as it have progress to the Lords have far enhance it and I commend it to the House . I call shadow Minister . well , what can one say about that last 20 minute , apart from that it must have feel far more persuasive when the Minister practise it in the mirror this morning , but I do congratulate she on the birth of her grandson . I will start by thank their lordship for the extensive and forensic scrutiny to which they have subject this complex and demanding piece of legislation . I put on record the appreciation feel on these Benches for the tireless work of our noble friend , Baroness Hayman of Ullock and Lady Taylor of Stevenage , ably assist as ever by Ben Wood and the whole Labour Lords team . this Bill have be with we for some time now . first publish in May 2022 , it have progress slowly against the backdrop of significant political and economic turbulence , the responsibility for which lie squarely with the Conservatives . it have survive an unprecedented degree of ministerial churn : three Prime Ministers ; four secretary of State , albeit one a retread ; four Housing and Planning Ministers ; and four levelling up Ministers . with so many mind on the Government Benches have grapple thoughtfully with the implication of each of the Bill ' s many provision , one might have hope that it would have be significantly improve and that its bad feature would have be substantially mitigate , if not remove altogether . sadly , despite the addition of score of new clause and a large number of new schedule to the extensive number it already contain , the Bill remain not only eclectic but deeply muddle . it be a rag - tag mix of measure — some sensible , but many more ill - consider or downright damaging — that attempt but fail to render coherent a Tory levelling up , devolution and planning agenda that be anything but . in the eight month that the Bill be consider in the other place , the Government be force to give way on a variety of front . I be glad that , in a range of area , the argument that my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) and I make in Committee last year have be partially accept . however , although the Government ' s concession have render the Bill slightly more palatable , they have not resolve the fact that it still contain a range of measure , from the new infrastructure levy to community land auction arrangement , that be rive with flaw . we regret the fact that Ministers do not reconsider their inclusion entirely . it will now fall to a future Labour Government to halt , review or rescind each of they . we do not have an opportunity today to attempt , again , to address many of the more problematic part of the Bill but , as a result of the prodigious effort of noble Lords in the other place , we have a chance to make a number of important change that would modestly improve the Bill and , in so do , enhance outcome for local community across the country . it be with that objective in mind that I turn to a selection of the unusually large number of amendment that the other place have send to we for consideration . lord amendment 1 and 10 relate to the levelling - up mission set out in part 1 of the Bill and the distinct , but relate , third round of the levelling - up fund . they seek respectively to ensure that the mission and the fund application process be properly integrate and that round 3 of the fund take place not only in a timely manner but on the basis of a reform application process . we support both . the Opposition ' s view on the Government ' s levelling - up mission be well know , but , if we be to give statutory force to a statement set such mission for a period of no less than five year , it be right not only that it come into effect soon after the Bill receive Royal Assent but that it be accompany by a statement detail the application process for round 3 of the levelling - up fund , include transparent criterion so that the two can be fully align . similarly , our criticism of the levelling - up funding process be a matter of public record , but , if the fund be to be the primary mean of deliver priority local infrastructure project for the foreseeable future , it be right that step be take prior to the opening of round 3 to simplify the application process and to reduce the onerous requirement and resource it presently involve . we recognise that , by table an amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 10 , the Government have seek to enshrine in the Bill an assurance in respect of round 3 of the levelling - up fund . however , not only be the content of the propose statement leave completely undefined , but the propose amendment in lieu fail to achieve one of the central objective seek by their noble Lords , namely that such a statement be publish within the same timescale as a statement on the levelling - up mission so that the two process , which be clearly connect , fully complement each other . for those reason , we can not support the Government amendment in lieu and we will support Lords amendment 10 , along with Lords amendment 1 . the question of whether the Government ' s propose levelling - up mission be comprehensive enough to reduce inequality between and within region have arise since the White Paper be first publish in February 2022 . lord amendment 2 and 4 seek to augment the 12 mission set out in that document by require the addition of separate mission relate to child poverty and health disparity . we welcome the Government ' s acceptance that address the impact of economic and social disparity warrant a great focus in respect of level - up mission and that they have table amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 2 and 4 to that end . however , in our view , the requirement that Ministers " must have regard " to these disparity in the preparation and review of all the mission fall some way short of the implication that establish dedicated new mission on child poverty and health disparity would have for life chance across the country . for that reason , we can not support the Government amendment in lieu and will support Lords amendment 2 and 4 . we also support Lords amendment 22 . we remain firmly of the view that there be circumstance in which virtual or hybrid meeting be necessary or useful , and that their use could help to reduce barrier to public engagement , particularly in relation to the planning process . as we argue in Committee last year , a number of organisation , include the Planning Inspectorate , already enjoy the freedom to offer such meeting as they deem necessary , and there be widespread support for put local authority remote meeting arrangement on a permanent footing , include from the Local Government Association , Lawyers in Local Government and the Association of Democratic Services officer . the Government have offer no compelling reason why this amendment should not be incorporate into the Bill , and we therefore urge the House to support it . as the Minister will know , the establishment of a new tier of national planning policy in the form of national development management policy , and their precise relationship and stand in respect of local development plan , have be a point of contention throughout the Bill ' s passage . the Opposition feel strongly that it can not be right that national policy that will have a far great impact on local community than any exist national policy statement and that have significant implication for the status and remit of local planning can be develop without an obligatory and define public consultation and parliamentary approval process . lord amendment 44 stipulate such a process , include minimum public consultation requirement and a mechanism for facilitate parliamentary scrutiny base on that which currently apply to designate a national policy statement . in table amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 44 , the Government have make it clear that consultation in respect of the designation and review of an ndmp must take place in all but a limited set of circumstance . we welcome that subtle shift in the Government ' s position . however , if the Government amendment in lieu be accept , the form of consultation would remain , as in the original drafting of the Bill , whatever the Secretary of State " think appropriate " . in short , the Government ' s amendment in lieu will replace a precise set of requirement , namely those set out in clause 38zb and 38zc , with an ambiguous and loosely word clause that will allow Ministers to determine the nature of the consultation to take place and give they the freedom not to consult in instance where they feel it be necessary , or expedient , to act urgently , however they choose to interpret that phrase . in our view , that be problematic . as such , while we welcome the willingness of Ministers to move on this issue , we do not feel they have go anywhere near far enough . for that reason , we will support Lords amendment 44 . the need to do more to ensure that there be genuine coherence between the planning system and our country ' s climate commitment have be a recur theme throughout consideration of the Bill . it be abundantly clear from the evidence , include from recent detailed research undertake by the Climate Change Committee , that the exist plethora of duty , requirement and power that set out how the planning system should help to achieve net zero be not produce the require result . not only be they insufficiently robust to produce consistency when it come to the decision take by local planning authority and the Planning Inspectorate , but the system regularly throw up decision that be incompatible with the need to make rapid progress towards net zero emission by mid - century or to deliver resilient and climate - proof place . the Government previously make vague commitment to revise the national planning policy framework to include a number of change design to respond to the climate crisis , but when they have the opportunity to act in the new version of the NPPF publish last month , they fail to include any reference to our net zero target . as for the more far - reach review of national policy that be promise , this will not take place until next year , if at all . it be simply not good enough . we urgently need clear and unambiguous national policy guidance in relation to climate change , a purposeful statutory framework to align every aspect of the planning system with net zero , and an overarching duty on the Secretary of State , local planning authority and those involve in neighbourhood plan make to achieve climate change mitigation and adaptation when prepare plan and policy or exercise their function in planning decision making . the latter be what Lords amendment 45 would achieve , and we support it . lord amendment 239 quite reasonably propose that , in addition to manage and shape the overall childcare market in their area , local authority should be allow to deliver their own childcare provision , if they wish to do so . the amendment would expand on exist power in the Childcare Act 2006 that allow local authority to establish their own provision in circumstance where they identify a childcare need that can not be meet by any other mean , or where they deem it more appropriate to provide that provision themselves . the Government resist this amendment in the other place on the basis that there be no appetite among local authority to deliver childcare directly , that it would not make a material difference to childcare availability across the country and that it might risk an actual or perceive conflict of interest for local authority as both market shaper and direct provider . those argument be utterly unconvincing . the huge gap that exist in the affordability and availability of childcare across the country be deny child opportunity , limit parental choice and hold back our local economy . local authority have a statutory responsibility to ensure that there be sufficient childcare place available to family within their local community . we believe that if they deem it necessary to directly deliver their own provision to meet that responsibility , they should have the freedom to do so . we be therefore pleased that the Government have accept our argument that local authority should not simply be a childcare provider of last resort but should be allow to deliver childcare directly if they believe it can help meet local need . we welcome the full concession make via an amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 239 . as the Minister will know , we take strong exception to the provision in the Bill , as first publish , that would have have the effect of disregard the full repeal of the Vagrancy Act 1824 that the House approve via amendment to the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . have resist our urging in Committee to voluntarily withdraw the relevant placeholder clause , the Government be force to do so in this place on Report . however , nearly a year on from that concession , and 20 month after the then Policing Minister , the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , make a commitment from the Dispatch Box that it would be repeal in full within a maximum of 18 month , it remain the case that the 1824 Act — an embarrassing remnant of Georgian England ' s approach to the poor and destitute — remain on the statute book . we welcome the concession the Government have make in essentially accept , albeit with a slight variation in respect of timing , Lords amendment 240 . in so do , the Government will at least be require to produce a statement detail the impact of enforce the most pernicious section of the Vagrancy Act that criminalise sleep rough and beg . but the Government really do now need to honour their word on this matter , bring forward the necessary replacement legislation and repeal the Vagrancy Act in full , as the House have clearly insist that they do . lord amendment 241 relate to public building that be in a state of disrepair — an issue that have gain prominence in light of the revelation in recent month about the risk pose by RAAC . the amendment would simply require the Government to keep a register of school and hospital that be in serious disrepair . the Government maintain that extensive datum on the condition of both school and hospital be already publicly available and that a requirement to maintain such a register , and update it regularly , would place an unnecessary burden on school and NHS trust in a way that would detract from their ability to address the most serious building safety issue . we note and appreciate those concern . however , there be clearly a need for great transparency and more accessible reporting on public building that be in a state of disrepair . I stand to be correct , but it be my understanding that there be no statutory requirement to release all the datum in question . to the extent that datum have make its way into the public sphere , it have emerge in an ad hoc and unplanned manner , and it be often present in format that be virtually inaccessible . give the strong case for measure to increase transparency and improve report in relation to this important issue , it be disappointing that the Government have not feel it necessary to provide any concession . we urge they to give far thought to whether some kind of compromise might be reach . lord amendment 242 seek to remedy a glaring defect within the Building Safety Act 2022 : that qualify leaseholder who have be require to extend or vary their lease subsequent to the Act ' s come into force in June last year have find themselves ineligible for the leaseholder protection it provide , because a lease extension be technically a new lease , not an extension of the same lease . the fact that this defect be allow to arise be a source of serious concern , particularly give that the Leasehold Reform ( Ground Rent ) Act 2022 , pass only a few month before the Building Safety Act , include provision design to ensure that the same problem could not arise under it . this be a salutary warning of the problem that arise when a government choose to legislate in haste on an issue and do not provide the House with adequate time to scrutinise a Bill . the Government , to their credit , have accept that this problem need to be remedie . the amendment in lieu that they have table to Lords amendment 242 achieve that end , and do so with retrospective effect . although many more issue relate to the building safety crisis require the Government to think again — not least the plight of non - qualify leaseholder the Government choose to exclude from protection under the Building Safety Act — we welcome the concession that have be make , albeit with one proviso : minister must take step to ensure that leaseholder who pay service charge over the past 15 month in the belief that they be not eligible for the leaseholder protection under the Act , because of the Government ' s mistake , be reimburse . those individual should not suffer financially as a result of a drafting error that should not have be allow to occur in the first place . if the Minister — I hope she be listen to this point — can provide we with some reassurance on that point , we will happily accept the Government ' s amendment in lieu . the issue of onshore wind have arise at several point during consideration of the Bill . in response to demand from a sizeable group of Conservative Back Benchers , the Government commit on Report in this House to make change to the NPPF to facilitate more onshore wind deployment , subject to local approval . although it be make clear that the precise method by which community consent would be determine would emerge from consultation , a clear deadline of April this year be give for change to be make . that deadline come and go without the NPPF be amend . as a result , a group of disgruntle Conservative Members threaten to amend the Energy Bill to ensure that the harmful effective moratorium impose on onshore wind since 2015 be finally end . to stave off a rebellion , the Government agree to update footnote 54 of the NPPF . however , the revise wording of that footnote still leave onshore wind project subject to a uniquely restrictive consent regime . it therefore remain easy to build an incinerator or a landfill site than an onshore wind farm in England . as renewableuk state in respond to the change : " we will still face a planning system stack against onshore wind that treat it differently to every other energy source or infrastructure project . . . there have be a slight softening at the edge but nothing more . " lord amendment 244 seek to remedy this anomaly once and for all and to ensure that onshore wind project be treat in the same way as any other form of infrastructure . it would reinstate onshore wind project of more than 50 MW as nationally significant infrastructure project , just like all other onshore form of electricity generation ; remove the obligation for pre - application consultation that currently exist only for onshore wind project of two or more turbine ; and require associated planning guidance to be bring back in line with that for other form of generation . we strongly support it and urge the House to finally resolve this matter by do the same . Lords amendment 273 concern mayoral control of police and crime commissioner function . the Government have seek to ensure that metro mayor be give the power to unilaterally take on those function themselves without the consent of the constituent authority of the relevant combine authority , and to do so from the point at which this Bill be give Royal Assent . do my hon . friend agree that people deserve to have their voice hear and to decide for themselves who they want to represent they as their police and crime commissioner ? my hon . friend be right . as I be about to say , we believe that this change be clearly drive by political expediency and be intend to facilitate the transfer of the PCC function in the west midland to its Mayor prior to the election that will take place in May 2024 . this be the late attempt to achieve that end — a provision enable the Mayor to expand the boundary of the West Midlands Combined Authority without the consent of the constituent authority , have be defeat in the other place on 13 July . Lords amendment 273 do not engage with the substantive issue of whether a transfer on this basis be appropriate . all it seek to do be to delay the point at which the measure contain in clause 59 come into force , so that this not insignificant change can be enact in a consider manner after the next set of election take place . the amendment have our support . finally , Lords amendment 329 , which be table by Lord Best , would require local plan to identify the scale and nature of local housing need and to make provision for sufficient social rent housing so that homelessness and the use of temporary accommodation can be end . the importance of this matter can not be overstate . as a result of the reduce supply of genuinely affordable home over the past 13 year , more than 1 . 2 million household languish on local authority waiting list ; million of family be trap in overcrowded or unsuitable property ; and , to our shame as a nation , the number of household in temporary accommodation , many of whom contain young child , surpass 100 , 000 for the first time this year . national planning policy be clear that local plan should , as a minimum , provide for objectively assess need for housing , but we know that the true extent of local housing need , and in particular the need for social rent housing , be not often reflect in they . we strongly support the principle that underpin Lords amendment 329 : that local planning authority should be require , rather than encourage , to properly identify local housing need and plan to meet it . we recognise that the Government have make an important concession with their propose amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 329 , which would ensure that local plan must take account of an assessment of local housing need , include affordable housing need . however , the Government amendment in lieu fall short , in fail to require local planning authority to plan to accommodate that identify need . for that reason , we be minded to support Lords amendment 329 today , with a view to encourage the Government to consider whether they can move a little far on this matter . have serve on the Bill Committee for six month , I have to say to the Minister that I find it really disrespectful that she would not take my intervention ; I be here to scrutinise the legislation . I say to my hon . friend — the future Housing Minister — that I welcome our adoption of these measure to ensure that we get the right tenure , not least because of the housing crisis that I see in my constituency . let I push he far by ask whether we will accept the principle of Lords amendment 46 on healthy home and the build environment , because we know that housing be about not just brick and mortar , but the environment in which people live . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention , and I thank she again , as I do at the time , for the many month of work that she do on the Bill Committee . she be right to raise the point about healthy home ; we fully support the principle of that campaign . we disagree with the Government ' s suggestion that the issue be already well address , and I gently encourage the Minister to continue the conversation that I believe the Government be have with Lord Crisp and the other proposer of that amendment in the other place . to conclude , while we welcome a small number of the concession that the Government have feel able to make to the Bill , we believe that most do not go far enough . this unwieldy and confused piece of legislation be flawed on many level . we have an opportunity today to make modest but important improvement to it . on that basis , we urge the House to support the many reasonable amendment that the other place have send to we . I call the Father of the House . I congratulate the Minister on the way she present the Government ' s approach to these over 100 amendment — on heaven know how many page , if one try to read through they . I also congratulate the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , on martialle the point and present they in a way that the House can understand . in particular , I join he in say to the government that Lord Crisp ' s proposal have much that should be incorporate . amendment 327 , which would be insert before schedule 7 , talk about house design " to provide year - round thermal comfort for inhabitant " ; to have reduce opportunity for the " risk of crime " ; to be free , as far as possible , " from adverse and intrusive noise and light pollution " ; and to ensure that " live area and bedroom … have access to natural light " . the amendment address a whole series of issue that do not get as much attention as they should have do . when developer be able to convert office block into home , some of those home be , frankly , substandard . I very much agree with the point that the Father of the House have just make . do he agree that healthy home should incorporate the idea of green space and more equitable access to good - quality green space within reach of those home , as set out in the Lords amendment ? we know about the improvement to physical and mental health that can come as a result of access to green space . the hon . Lady remind I that I mean to say that when Dr Christopher Addison become the first Minister for Health in 1919 , the first action he take be to help build social housing on a scale that would allow people ' s health to be improve by live in far well environment , inside and outside their home . yesterday , in levelling - up question , the Secretary of State very kindly speak clearly about the approach to the development at Lansdowne Nursery , on the a259 in my constituency , and the threat to Chatsmore Farm , in what be know locally as the Goring gap . it be important that the word that the Secretary of State speak yesterday should be pass on to planning inspector , include the one in Arundel today , who be consider the appeal against the properly justified refusal of plan permission to put home on the Lansdowne Nursery site . I invite Ministers from the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to come to my constituency — and to the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) — to see how every bit of grass be under threat from opportunist developer . those developer have rightly be turn down by local authority — borough and district . they should be support by planning inspector , not at risk of what I would call " a rogue decision " by someone from Bristol . turn to amendment 22 , after clause 70 , the Government be wrong to ban parish council from meet remotely if they want to . some parish council cover a large area and many elderly people kindly serve on they . if they want to have a valid meeting , why can they not tune in , if they be ill , remote or for some other reason ? it seem to I to be totally unnecessary for central Government to say to local council , especially parish council , " you can not do that . " I hope that the Government will think again , if not in this Bill then in another one . let people have autonomy and a degree of sovereignty . if their power be limited , then how they use they should be up to they , in my view . in amendment 242 and 243 , Lord Young of Cookham have help qualify and non - qualify residential leaseholder . I accept that the Government proposal be limit to residential leaseholder and do not cover commercial leaseholder . what the House should not accept , and where the Government should think again , be why there have to be a distinction between qualifying and non - qualify leaseholder . many non - qualify leaseholder have home on which they can not get a mortgage or sell , and on which they can not avoid pay high annual cost , as well as remediation cost . I repeat the question put by the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich , about what happen to people who have pay but who will now not qualify . will the Minister give clear advice when she wind up , or in a later statement , on what happen to leaseholder face claim for payment that they think they should not have to pay ? can people get out of this dilemma , which be cause by too many people in Government not understand the legal status of residential leaseholder ? I do not believe that Dame Judith Hackitt understand it when she put forward her fire safety proposal , and I do not think the Government understand in the early day . now that they do understand , will they please remove the distinction ? the idea that if people live in home below 11 metre they be not face an un - mortgageable and unsellable home be wrong . many people who have leasehold home under that level be frankly in a dilemma that Government ought to be able to resolve . I could go on for long , but many other member wish to speak . I congratulate those who have help to improve the Bill . there be many element that I support — the Government can take that for grant — but on issue where they be allow injustice or ineffective approach to continue , let we change that . let we be on the side of the 5 million to 6 million residential leaseholder whom we have ignore for too long , whose situation have be understand poorly . now that it be understand well , we ought to allow they to have well , healthy , happy and more financially secure life . I call the SNP spokesperson . this be my first scrutiny of Lords amendment as the SNP ' s levelling - up spokesperson , so I would like to start by thank my hon . friend the Members for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) and for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) for their work scrutinise the Bill so far . the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) be make her maiden speech today — I make mine just two year ago . with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , if I be to give she any advice , it would be this : watch out for the grey hair — you will get lot of they . work in a collegiate manner — the public think that we in this place all hate each other , but we really do not . and wear trainer where possible . I feel a tad leave out early , because when the Minister go on her bizarre monologue about Labour and the Liberal Democrats , she leave out the SNP . do that reflect the fact that she do not think Scotland matter ? that remain to be see . the intention behind the Bill — to help area across the four nation — be admirable . however , as per usual with this Tory Government , their aim be commendable but their journey towards that aim be terrible . the Bill be muddle , confused and not fit for purpose . the Tory track record on level up be weak at good and politically motivated cronyism at bad . on the SNP Benches , we have be clear from the start that the Bill be simply not good enough . but , because of the approach that the Government have adopt , it be now doom to fail , arguably like most of their policy . it push funding , which be so desperately need in struggle area across the four nation , to be allocate to boost support in politically beneficial region . take Scotland , for example . the second round of level - up funding in January 2023 see only £ 177 million distribute to a nation that be promise very much more . in Scotland we be continually tell that we be in a Union of equal , yet that figure be only 8 . 4 % of the possible £ 2 . 1 billion , mean many local authority , include North Lanarkshire in my Airdrie and Shotts constituency , have be leave behind and forget by this Government . the Conservative Government can not be trust to level up Scotland . they have neither the will nor the desire to do so . rise — I wish to make some progress , but I shall give way in a bit . it will shock no one that the UK Government have seek to reduce the measure that be design to increase scrutiny of level up . Lords amendment 1 would require the Government to produce a statement on their initial plan for level up within 30 day of the Bill become law . if level up be such a fundamental aim , then I do not quite understand why the Government be unable to produce such a statement to the House . the Minister ' s opposition to Lords amendment 1 be , to my eye , another example of this Government try to evade scrutiny . it should be note that the Bill aim to tackle issue of the UK Government ' s own creation . they say that they want to level up , but it be their policy that have result in year of austerity that have run infrastructure and service into the ground . there be little doubt that the situation have be make bad by the gross mismanagement of the economy by successive conservative government since 2010 . I be also not surprised that the Government have seek to change Lords amendment 2 , which would have ensure that reduce child poverty be a levelling - up mission . instead of see this as an opportunity to expand the impact of level up , the Minister seek to drop this amendment . the Lords amendment be narrow in scope , seek only to reduce the proportion of child live in poverty rather than see its complete eradication . tackle child poverty be desperately need . the Government ' s action in this area stand in stark contrast to the effort of the Scottish Government , for whom tackle child poverty and inequality more generally remain their main priority , with £ 4 billion be spend on target social security support . the Tory Government could look to copy the lead of the Scottish Government and prioritise tackle child poverty through level up , but they have make a conscious decision not to do so . politic be all about choice . the public should be aware that the Government have an opportunity , through Lords amendment 2 , to include a mission to reduce the proportion of child in poverty as part of their levelling - up agenda , but they choose not to do so . but be I surprised that the party of the two - child cap have choose to oppose measure to reduce child poverty ? no . yet this be an issue within the Westminster establishment , and the Conservatives be not alone in their belief on this . the Tory - lite Labour party be also supporter of the two - child cap . the provision in Lords amendment 3 and 4 would tackle geographical disparity in housing , education , private sector investment , public spending and health . all be aim that should be at the core of an effective levelling - up strategy . the UK Government should follow the Scottish Government ' s approach of attempt to tackle geographical disparity and look to emulate their investment of more than £ 831 million in affordable and energy - efficient housing . the amendment in lieu put forward by the Government be a cop - out and barely pay lip service to counter geographical disparity and inequality . lord amendment 10 seek to improve accountability and make it easy for council to apply for funding . additionally , it would put measure in place to prevent the Government from make politically motivated levelling - up decision . it seek to put in law that the Secretary of State set out the application process and criterion for round 3 of level up . I do not understand why the Government be oppose that . the amendment seek to set out measure in great clarity to ensure that local authority be in with a chance . over the last two round of level up , my constituency of Airdrie and Shotts have be unsuccessful , so ensure that there be a requirement on the Department to set out the process and criterion would help my local authority — it be a labour - run authority , but it would help they none the less — and , ultimately , my constituent in Airdrie and Shotts . if I be a cynic — I be not say that I be — I would say that the UK Government have treat public fund for level up as an election tool , prioritise taxpayer ' money for their own constituency — a tactic that the Prime Minister be not even try to hide when he be Chancellor , publicly brag about take money from deprive area and hand it to well - off area in England . that be , of course , during the Tory leadership election , so perhaps he be hope that no one be listen . the system and mechanism for allocate funding be break and Lords amendment 10 seek to fix that . Wales and Scotland be get less levelling - up funding per person than England . once again , we be see the Tories spend money that should be for Scotland on improve their own area . we know what the Tories think of spending in Scotland . those of we on the SNP Benches remember Boris Johnson , former Prime Minister and champion of level up , say that a pound spend in Croydon " be of far more value to the country than a pound spend in Strathclyde . " once again , the Government ' s propose change to the amendment show the contempt that they have for scrutiny and allow they to continue their political cronyism when it come to levelling - up funding . despite promise to put power back in the hand of local people , the amendment show that the Bill in its entirety be nothing but a thinly veil attempt by Westminster to roll back on the devolution settlement . the Bill adopt a top - down approach that cut out the democratically elect Scottish Parliament and its Ministers , in favour of decision make in Whitehall . in the last Budget , the Chancellor announce several direct funding programme in Scotland through the Government ' s levelling - up fund — project that total £ 172 million in spending . those project violate the devolution settlement , spend in area that be explicitly devolve and undermine money that should have come to Scotland in the form of Barnett consequential . it be not enough for the UK Government to seek support from the Scottish Government in the implementation of project select by Whitehall ; the Scottish Government must be consult at all stage , as be the case with EU funding . if the UK Government be serious about level up , they must respect devolution . rise — no , I will not take an intervention . if the right hon . Gentleman want to speak , I be sure that he can put in a card . it be not surprising , but incredibly concerning , that the Tories be attempt to water down issue that would quite literally improve the quality of people ' s life . the Lords amendment could strengthen the Bill , but , at the end of the day , the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill be underwhelme in its inception : it will not level up the area that need it the most ; it will not work towards eradicate child poverty ; and it will not increase the Government ' s accountability . however , it will be another unsurprising Tory policy that hand more power to this untrustworthy government and fail to deliver an ounce of what they promise . the reality for Scotland be that it be only through have the full power of independence that we will truly unlock our ability to decide what be good for our diverse community . it be a joy to have the opportunity to speak in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , because I can see the direct benefit that it will have for West Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly , which I be proud to represent . the ministerial team have be helpful in their dialogue with I on the need of level up rural area . I ought to say at this point that I chair the all - party group on rural service . I want to refer to Lords amendment 6 , which place a requirement on the Department to produce a rural - proof report detail way in which the levelling - up mission have regard to their impact on rural area and will address the need of rural community . as somebody who represent a large rural constituency of West Cornwall and Scilly , I can not stress enough the importance of policy and measure actively design to support the need of rural community . the House do not need I to remind it that the need to level up rural Britain be urgent and critical . wage be low , house price be often high , home be more expensive to heat , deliver public transport and other service , such as social care , be more challenging , and the list go on . as I have say , I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and the departmental team for their engagement with I . my right hon . friend assure I that , rather than accept the Lords amendment , the Government will give great force to the commitment to level up , and that they will be oblige to consider economic , social and other outcome in set up levelling - up mission , include the specific need of rural community . I welcome the acknowledgement that rural community have a specific case worthy of consideration . in his concluding remark , can the Minister explain in practice how the need of rural community will be address and not sideline in favour of more densely populate area , especially in relation to cornish people who need secure , affordable housing . in conclusion , I pay specific tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) , who , in her time in the Department , prove to be a good friend to Cornwall in our ambition to secure meaningful devolution and seek to address important gap in the spreading of level up funding . lord amendment 10 seek to address area that have be leave behind and those gap in level up and other regeneration funding . such area be look to the Government to set out their approach to the third round of the levelling up fund . one such area be Helston , an important town serve the Lizard peninsula and many other rural community . some 42 , 000 people live in and around Helston , which be famous for Flora Day and the Flora Dance , but be also know as one of the few town in Cornwall that have miss out on much - need levelling up and regeneration funding . a fantastic team , include Helston Town Council and many other important organisation in the town , have identify some critical project design to revive the town and make it a safe , healthy and wealthy area in which to live and work . I hope that the town will be successful in its future bid for level up funding , particularly in the very near future . we now come to a maiden speech and , as we know , there be no interruption . I welcome the new Member , Sarah Dyke , to make her maiden speech . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant I the opportunity to make my maiden speech today . I begin by pay tribute to my predecessor . the hon . Gentleman serve his constituent over his tenure in Parliament , and I thank he for his service . he also speak up for one of the major cultural export in our region , cider . write record of cider production in Somerset exist from as early as the 12th century . somerset have become synonymous with the cider industry and be proud to be its ancestral home . cider be so important to our region that until the passing of the Truck Act 1887 , which prohibit the practice , labourer be often pay in cider , with some of the top labourer often earn eight pint a day in payment . although prohibit , I understand that the practice be slow to dry up in Somerset and continue well into the 20th century . the industry today sustain thousand of job and hundred of farmer . our cider be renowned for its quality and I will champion the industry during my time here . Somerton and Frome be also a large agricultural base and be home to many of the country ' s fine farmer and rural business , all produce food for our table to high environmental and animal welfare standard . farmer be essential to the UK economy and our way of life . we must back our hard - work farmer and provide they with a fair deal to ensure that we have food security long into the future . I herald from a family that have be farm in the area for more than 250 year , so I will always stand up and fight for our farmer , who not only produce delicious and healthy food and drink , but protect our precious environment . the importance of improve the environment be critical to a rural area such as Somerton and Frome , because we face the effect of climate change first - hand and the damage it can cause will be devastating for our local community . I be committed to campaign on the issue and I call for the positive change that we need to see . it be an honour to be elect as the late Liberal to represent the area , and I be proud to follow in the footstep of Thomas Hughes and , more recently , David Heath , the last Liberal Democrat to represent the constituency . David be a true champion of this area who fight for 18 year for the people of Somerton and Frome . I thank he for all he have do in Somerset during his career . if I be able to achieve half of what he be able to do , I be confident I will have do a good job . lead woman be often overlook , and I would therefore like to recognise some of the pioneer woman from my area . I be the second woman to represent the town of Frome , follow on from Mavis Tate MP , who represent Frome from 1935 to 1945 and use Parliament to campaign for and champion woman ' s right . Alice Seeley Harris , a documentary photographer who help to expose human right abuse in the Congo Free State under Leopold II of Belgium , also live in Frome . finally , I would like to mention Emma Sheppard , another victorian pioneer who call for workhouse reform . from people to place : let we take a short tour of the seat that I be so proud to represent . we start in Somerton , the ancient capital of Somerset , from which the county gain its name . the old english name for Somerset mean " the people live at or dependent on Somerton " . the term Somerton and Somerset derive from " the land of the summer people " , as Somerset be marshy and wet during the winter month and only dry and useful in the summer — that is , until the Somerset level be drain by the monk to farm there during the middle age . we move on now to Langport , which be aptly name as it be a port town . langport be the natural crossing point on the River Parrett , and the Royalist soldier flee through the town while be pursue by Cromwell ' s force after the battle of Langport , hold on Pict ' s Hill nearby . it be also home to the Langport Mummers , who perform the Alfred play , base on King Alfred and his battle with Guthrum , the Viking . Alfred be know to have be base close to Langport before his battle with Guthrum ' s great heathen army around the eighth century . from the westernmost part of the constituency , we move to the south - eastern edge , to King Alfred ' s Tower , which be build by Henry Hoare on the county border with Wiltshire . the folly tower be site where King Alfred rally his troop before defeat Guthrum and , in so do , regain control of Wessex . we must not leave this part of the constituency without mention Wincanton , which be close by . in 2002 , Wincanton be twin with Ankh - Morpork from Terry Pratchett ' s " Discworld " series , make it perhaps the only place in the UK to be twin with a place that do not exist . just north of Wincanton be the ancient Selwood Forest , which reach north to Frome . unfortunately , Selwood Forest be something of a rarity in Somerset , as the county only possess 8 % tree canopy cover . that figure signify the urgent action need for our environment , as do the lack of tree cover across the country . at the last election , all political party pledge to increase tree cover across the country . I will be work hard throughout my time in Parliament to restore our natural environment , and I hope that progress continue to be make . we emerge from the Selwood Forest into Frome , the home of JW Singer & Sons art metal work , which represent the industrial legacy of the town . the foundry use to produce iconic monument such as Lady Justice on top of the Old Bailey . close to this place , in 1902 , the magnificent statue " Boudicca and her Daughters " be assemble on the Thames Embankment on the south - west end of Westminster Bridge , where it stand today — quite some feat , give that JW Singer cast his first brass candlestick in 1848 use turnip as mould . turn to the current debate , too often when we talk about level up we think of urban area in the north of England . there be no doubt that those area need support , but rural community such as mine be often forget , and without action they risk fall even far back . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) and for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , who have work hard to ensure that rural area be not forget in this Bill . they have table amendment to improve rural bus service , which be sadly neglect in Somerton and Frome and other rural constituency , and to introduce new planning class for second home and holiday let , so that local authority have more power to limit the impact on local housing supply . rural area such as Somerton and Frome be suffer deeply with the cost of living crisis . the cost of housing be often disproportionate to the level of wage available , and people have to use their car to travel far for work or to access service such as dentist , GPs , hospital or school . off - grid fuel have be significantly more expensive than gas in the heating of home . I will work to ensure that off - grid rural home never have to face this crisis again . that be why amendment 6 , on produce a rural proofing report , be so important . I need not say that the cost of deliver service in rural area be great than in urban area , so it be vital that the Bill take that into account , and I be delighted that my Liberal Democrat colleague in the other place have table that amendment . although I be disappointed that the Government have not go so far as to support the amendment entirely , their concession be welcome . finally , I would not be a liberal Democrat if I do not mention the importance of local government . we desperately need more power to be devolve to local government . however , I have deep concern about the way in which that be sometimes do . devolution should be implement with an understanding of what the local area need ; just because it work well in one place in a certain way do not mean it will work in the same way across rural Somerset . I strongly urge the Government to give more power to Somerset , but in consultation with the people of Somerset , so that we be give great decision - make power in our local area rather than just implement what Westminster think we need . I look forward to be a hard - work Member of this House and a great representative for Somerton and Frome . to all the people of Somerset : sumorste ealle . it be an absolute pleasure to follow the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) . we have all be through either the thrill or the ordeal of our maiden speech , and many of we will look back with different emotion — pride , affection or regret . Hers be certainly one to be proud of . I be sure that the whole House will recognise that we have in she a Member of great calibre when it come to speak in the House . she pay a very generous tribute to her immediate predecessor , which I be sure many of we would echo . she speak in staunch defence of the cider industry , which be perhaps one area in which I can genuinely offer my personal help for the profitability that she seek . she set out a wide range of rural matter that be extremely important to those of we who represent different part of Somerset . the hon . Lady , in place herself in context with a range of well - know predecessor from the part of the country that she represent , who be accomplish in different walk of life , demonstrate a lack of self - absorption that she will find somewhat rare in the House of Commons . I hope that she retain the refresh self - efface attitude that she bring to the House today . in the light of her top - to - bottom description of her constituency , if she be ever to leave this House , voluntarily or involuntarily , she be certainly likely to get a place on the Somerset tourist board . I thank all those who bring the Bill this far . during her speech , the Minister refer to local plan , which be extremely important for my constituency . she say that it be not just the assess housing need that matter but how much of that need can be accommodate in any one area . that matter hugely to a number of we . in North Somerset , for example , 40 % of land be green belt , 30 % be floodplain and 12 % be in an area of outstanding natural beauty . one reason we be so delighted that the Government be abolish the national housing target be that they can not be apply equally to area with a lot of land that can be build on and area where there be natural constraint . such constraint be impose by Government , who say , " you can not build on green belt and you can not build on floodplain . " it make a lot of sense to hand the power back to local area so that they can make decision for themselves . the removal of the five - year land bank be also an important increase in freedom for local authority . I be delighted that , throughout the passage of the Bill , include in the other place , the Government put the protection of the green belt at the centre of what they be do to stop urban sprawl — which , of course , we face in North Somerset as we be so close to Bristol — to protect our environment , as have be mention in relation to a number of issue , and to stop inappropriate development . that be likely to become an important election issue give that the Labour party have say that it will build on the green belt , and the Liberal Democrats have say that they will reintroduce national house building target number if they be able to do so . I echo what a number of my colleague say about encourage nature recovery strategy in the amendment , as well as about banking hub , which have be raise on a number of occasion . it be important in rural area and small town , particularly for the elderly , for those who be not necessarily computer - literate , and for those who find it difficult to travel , that we maintain some form of connection with traditional banking . I fully accept the Minister ' s argument that these be market decision to be take by individual bank , but we can not have banking desert when our constituent need access to banking service . we often think about rural community when discuss banking hub , but my right hon . friend ' s point about banking desert be equally important to constituency such as mine , which now have only one bank leave . some in the banking sector think it be fine for my constituent to have to drive into Walsall or Sutton — it be not . my right hon . friend make an important point . it be incumbent on we all to work with Government and the banking sector to ensure that our constituent have access . she make a good point : the lack of access be previously more pertinent to rural location , but then it apply to small village , then small town , and now even large town face the situation that she describe . I wish to make two point to the Minister , one of which I raise during an intervention when I ask , " when will we see the new NPPF ? " she indicate that we will see it as soon as the Bill receive Royal Assent . I hope that mean that we will have the new NPPF by the time we get to prorogation , which be not far off . I be sure that we will all hold the Minister to account for the very welcome timeline that she place on that today . I would like the Minister to consider one issue above all else , and to respond to it during the debate . there will be a hiatus between the passage of the legislation and its implementation date , but plan permission request for housing development will still be make . will the Minister make it clear that the Planning Inspectorate need to take into account this legislation , rather than the previous NPPF , when consider such planning application ? it would be quite wrong and profoundly undemocratic if both house produce legislation along the line that the Government have propose but plan inspector apply an old version of the NPPF , thereby allow planning application that be clearly against the express will of Parliament to be approve . we can not have unelecte inspector make decision against what this Parliament have clearly decide . I hope that the Minister will give an assurance in her wind - up that , for any planning application in that hiatus , instruction will be give to the planning inspectorate that it be expect to follow what the Government have set out in the legislation . first , I associate myself with the remark of the Father of the House , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) . I agree with almost all his point , include on have the right measure in place to stop opportunistic developer , on support virtual meeting of local government , and especially on leaseholder . may I reiterate my support for some of the comment make by the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) , particularly his call for a timeline for the national planning policy framework update ? the Minister will be aware that I have table a number of write question ask she to clarify for the record the status of that consultation . she have very kindly confirm that it be just a consultation . there be a lot of confusion among my constituent , who believe that the NPPF have already be update when it have not . I therefore associate myself with the other Members across the House who want to see the NPFF update — in the Minister ' s word — " as soon as possible " . I rise to oppose the Government ' s motion to reject Lords amendment 82 , on planning application fee . minister will know that I originally table this amendment to the Bill 11 month ago , and in March I also table a presentation Bill that would have have the same effect . I have a number of meeting with the Minister to explain the reasoning behind this amendment . my amendment , ultimately , be very simple . at the moment , a government - impose cap on planning fee mean that local authority can not charge big developer the true cost of process their application , and the result of that be scandalous . in 2020 - 21 , council tax payer across England effectively subsidise big developer to the tune of almost £ 2 billion . in St Albans district alone , the figure be a shocking £ 3 . 2 million . that ' s right : during the big cost of live crisis in recent history , taxpayer in St Albans district be subside big developer to the tune of £ 3 million a year . the Government themselves have recognise this problem . they have run a consultation and agree to raise the cap on planning fee , but they still refuse to scrap it altogether . accord to a " dear colleague " letter that be circulate yesterday , the reason be twofold . the first be that the cost might become inconsistent between local authority . all I would say to that be that planning fee be less than 5 % of all professional fee , and that would not cause a huge problem . the second argument be that it would not provide any incentive to tackle inefficiency in planning department . I think it be fair to say that local authority be not awash with cash at the moment , so that be a pretty spurious argument . the fact be that plan service up and down the country be operate on a shoestring . funding cut mean that in many case , plan department can no long even meet their statutory time limit to determine planning application . developer and householder find their proposal delay , in some case for many month , as council lack the resource to process they . the Local Government Association say that the current Government cap be " result in significant capacity and skill challenge " and " undermine " council ' ability to deliver the quality housing and infrastructure that community desperately need . it also say that " council must have the ability to set planning fee at a level which cover the true cost of processing application " if they be to improve the system to the benefit of both community and developer . this amendment would allow local council to put an end to developer subsidy and take step to pass on the cost of planning application to those who submit they . let we look at one specific example . as it stand , a multibillion - pound developer with an incredibly complex development be not oblige to contribute any more than £ 116 to have each of its planning condition discharge . in 2014 , the Conservative Government decide that a freight terminal the size of 480 football pitch should be build in my constituency of St Albans . where the Government decide to build a big piece of infrastructure in a constituency , it be up to the developer to decide whether it want to enter into a voluntary planning performance agreement and to agree to pay non - statutory fee — effectively volunteer to pay additional fee — for the delivery of a large site . some developer do enter into such agreement , but some do not , and there be currently no obligation for they to do so . where they do not , there be considerable resource implication for local authority that be try to discharge planning condition impose by Whitehall . many constituent can face year of misery and chaos due to the construction of a large site and end up pay the developer ' planning cost . it be absurd , and it be unfair . this vast underfunding also leave effective planning enforcement activity a distant memory for most people in England . I be sure colleague across the House will recognise that portrait . what be more , as plan department across the country struggle with few qualified planning officer , developer and applicant say they be willing to pay what it cost to ensure they get a well service . in the light of big developer be prepared to pay this money , it be inconceivable that the Government would tie local authority ’ hand behind their back by reject the amendment . government ' s refusal to allow local council to pass on the true cost to developer be lumber local people with poor planning service and delay the delivery of sustainable housing , with unscrupulous developer not bring to account for breach planning condition in a timely way . all the while , local resident be subsidise big developer . there be no excuse for that to continue . I urge member across the House to support Lords amendment 82 and oppose the Government ' s attempt to vote it down . there be many amendment to consider this afternoon , but I assure you that I will keep my comment very brief and specific , Madam Deputy Speaker . I rise to speak about Lords amendment 44 , which be clearly design to address what some of we see as a deficit when it come to scrutiny . give that national development management policy be about how land be use in England and be a cornerstone of the planning reform in the Bill , it be really important that we look at they carefully . I , like many other in this place , have long be concern that ndmp run contrary to localism . they reduce transparency and , importantly , local participation in plan make . I fear that they will take priority over local plan , with no guarantee of public consultation . for I , that be what really matter . in a constituency such as mine , Aldridge - Brownhills , on the edge of Birmingham , local people need and expect to have their voice hear , particularly through parliamentary scrutiny . we see that only last year with the " Black Country Plan " . I see that there be another Member from the Black Country in the Chamber , my hon . friend the Member for Dudley South ( Mike Wood ) , and he will know exactly where I be come from . that plan be design to pull all the local authority together to look at housing need across the west midland . area such as mine be at serious risk of have swathe of house build on our precious green belt . thankfully , thank to scrutiny , transparency and the voice of local people and locally elect councillor and parliamentarian , the plan be drop , and our local council be now able to continue work on the local plan . on Lords amendment 44 , I be pleased that the Government have listen and table an amendment that will place consultation on a legislative footing , but I would like to press the Minister on this . government amendment ( b ) to Lords amendment 44 state : " the only case in which no consultation or participation need take place … be those where the Secretary of State think that none be appropriate " . I would like to understand exactly what we mean by that . it be vital that we get this right . we have one opportunity to get it right and , if we do not , I fear that area such as mine and the edge of the community that I represent will continue to be under threat . our much love green belt and our green space mean so much to we . we be not anti - housing , but we want house in the right place , and we want a mix of housing . as the Minister will be aware , we have lot of brownfield across the west midland . she speak about the brownfield - first approach . I think it be the West Midlands Mayor , Andy Street , who champion brownfield first . I , among other , have speak many time in the Chamber in favour of that . finally , I want to touch on the duty to co - operate , which be often at the heart of the problem that constituency such as mine face . I seek clarity from the Minister today , or in writing from the Secretary of State after the debate , as to what we mean when we refer to the alignment policy . I sincerely hope that this be not simply a relabelling of the duty to co - operate . I draw member ' attention to my role as a vice - president of the Local Government Association . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) on her excellent maiden speech ; I know she be go to join her liberal Democrat colleague in be an excellent champion for rural community . there be a lot to get through , so I be go to restrict my comment to a specific number of amendment that I think be particularly important . however , it be important to acknowledge that 418 amendment be make to this legislation in the Lords , which be testament to the fact that it be a confused piece of legislation and possibly poorly draft in the first place . as we have just hear , Lords amendment 44 require national development management policy to be review through public consultation and parliamentary scrutiny . ndmp offer a bold change to the planning system , and the Bill grant they primacy over local plan if they be in conflict . however , there be no provision in the initial Bill for ndmp to be scrutinise by Parliament or the public . the Government have table an amendment in lieu , but that amendment still allow the Secretary of State to avoid parliamentary and public scrutiny and block any community intervention in the implementation of policy . we on the liberal Democrat Benches strongly believe that Government should be scrutinise by Parliament , rather than just be able to dictate planning policy from the top , and that Lords amendment 44 be superior to the Government ' s amendment in lieu . I would also like to highlight Lords amendment 82 . early this year , the National Audit Office find that local authority planning service have be cut by £ 1 . 3 billion over the 10 - year period to 2020 . the Government have acknowledge the issue and agree to increase planning fee by 35 % for major application and 25 % for all other application , but there be an issue with that : those percentage increase do not account for regional difference in cost . who be leave to pick up the bill for all these costly planning application ? as we have just hear from my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , it be council tax payer . set a national percentage increase in planning fee be a pretty sloppy solution : it will not cover the cost of the application , but it will burden council tax payer who be already struggle with the cost of living crisis . as such , I urge the Government to consider adopt amendment 82 , which would allow local authority to set appropriate fee for planning application . on Lords amendment 241 , quality education and quality healthcare require quality facility . since the start of this academic year , 147 school across England have be force to close because their building have be find to include reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , or RAAC . that have impact well over 100 , 000 student , with many be force into e - learning at home . this be a generation whose education have already suffer during the pandemic ; it be not really good enough to keep they away from classroom now because the building they learn in be at risk of fall down . of course , it be not just school that have be find to be in a state of disrepair : multiple NHS trust have confirm that hospital be crumble around their staff and their patient . for that reason , the Liberal Democrats support Lords amendment 241 , which require the Government to keep a register of school and hospital that be in serious disrepair and update that register regularly , so that there be full transparency about the problem and Government can be hold to account for ensure its speedy rectification . I move on to the propose removal of subsection ( 5 ) of the new clause in Lords amendment 231 , which prevent regulation under that clause from amend provision in the Building Safety Act relate to build safety committee and building safety reporting . that be particularly relevant to the condition of electrical installation , stair and ramp , emergency egress for disabled people , and automatic water fire suppression system in relevant building . we do not need to be remind that the Building Safety Act be pass only last year . I be at a bit of a loss as to why the Government would want to start undermine its provision so soon , particularly since lot of building have not yet be make safe in the wake of the Grenfell disaster , despite that be so many year ago . I welcome the Minister ' s reassurance from the Dispatch Box that those provision would not be use in practice , but that beg the question : if they be not intend to be use , why be they include in the legislation ? again , I urge the Government to keep subsection ( 5 ) of the new clause in amendment 231 . I also want to talk a bit about Lords amendment 6 , which a number of member have already speak about . level up be mean to spark life across the whole country : not just the south - east or northern town , but rural part of Britain that sometimes conceal their deprivation behind a veil of beautiful greenness . other have already highlight this issue . I know as a rural MP that , while it be a privilege to live in a rural area , it do not come without drawback . some 13 % of my constituency of North Shropshire have hardly any mobile connection , and only 46 % of rural business have a decent 4 g broadband connection . there be only one bus on a Sunday , as member will have hear I say on multiple occasion , and poor connection throughout the week mean that young people be miss out on opportunity to access further education and , critically , business be miss out on the skilled labour they need to thrive and expand . as the hon . member for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) point out , the logistic of live in the countryside mean that council service cost more . council taxis be up to 20 % high than in urban area , while rural worker be pay 7 . 5 % less on average than their urban colleague and be face with house price that — if we exclude London — be often over eight time high . sadly , those difference be not recognise in the original drafting of the Bill . I support the concession the Government have make in relation to amendment 6 : they be take step in the right direction , and I think those concession have be enter into in good faith . while I support they , I would have prefer Lords amendment 6 to have be retain in its entirety . finally , I will speak to Lords amendment 329 , which deal with local housing . the amendment specify that " the local plan must identify the local nature and scale of housing need … and must make provision for sufficient social rent housing , to eliminate homelessness " and provide a home for the more than 1 million people who be currently on social housing waiting list . again , the Government ' s amendment in lieu be a positive step , but it do not go far enough in tackle the scourge of homelessness . I be sure the Minister be avidly watch Liberal Democrat conference at the beginning of conference season , but I be afraid she have slightly misunderstood Lib Dem policy , which offer to deliver 150 , 000 social home a year for people who be face homelessness and temporary accommodation . however , despite our very Lib Dem debate about whether we should set target from the bottom up or the top down , that policy also emphasise the importance of bring the local community with we — of build those need and requirement into the local plan and ensure that we build the right housing in the right place , with the right infrastructure and the consent of the local community . it be a shame that the Government be criticise we for provide a way for young people to aspire to home ownership and to get people out of the terrible situation of not have a safe and secure home to go to . amendment 329 need to be retain in full , and we will therefore be support the retention of the original Lords amendment . in conclusion , the Bill be so long and complex ; it have not be a masterpiece of legislation , and there be much confusion involve in it . I urge the Minister to take on board some of the comment that have be make today by colleague on both side of the House , who have make some excellent recommendation and suggestion , so that we can improve the Bill a bit before it go to its next stage . first , I wish to address the question of housing supply in the national planning policy framework , amendment 44 and other . I support the Government in reject the Lords amendment — in most case , those amendment make the Bill bad — but we need great clarity from the Government about how the national planning policy framework and the definition of need in any national intervention relate to what be do locally . the Minister have be a clear advocate of more devolved power , and the one power my local community would like be more power to decide how many house we can fit in and where they could be build . that be not clear yet , and I look forward to further clarification and further documentation . I be pleased that the five - year supply of land calculation have be amend , because that be cause considerable trouble . Wokingham Borough Council be more than hit the five - year target , but we be constantly tell by inspector that we be not , because they calculate the number in a different , and we think rather perverse , way . we never get any credit for greatly outperform the average that we be mean to be build under the local plan , with all the difficulty that be be create by people live on many building site in the local area . that bring I on to the amendment and the debate , and the commentary that we have be hear on the general issue of level up — the subject of the Bill — and how that relate to devolve government . I remind all party in the House who have a fit of enthusiasm for the proposition that more devolved government will naturally lead to level up to look at the experience so far . they should understand that there be many occasion on which devolve power be create or grant when level up do not occur or when thing even go backwards . I will not argue with the decision of the many local community who have vote fairly in a referendum to have various type of devolved government . I be a great supporter of referenda and a great respecter of their result . I be not urge change to the current complex structure of devolved government , but that should not stop we analyse whether it be work and whether it can be improve within its own term and in how it operate . the big example of devolved government be the devolved Government of Scotland . it be now a good time to review how well that have be work , because we be tell that devolution would boost the scottish growth rate and improve scottish public service relative to public service elsewhere . so far this century — the period in which we have experience devolve government with considerable power — Scotland have always have considerably more money per head for public service than England , yet the scottish growth rate have be low than the english growth rate . Scotland come into the House today to demand big levelling - up money , because clearly more than two decade of scottish independent government in many area have not level Scotland up yet . we need to ask why that have fail . what be wrong with the conduct of the SNP Government and , before that , be there defect in the Labour - lead Government in Scotland ? how could future government in Scotland use those power and the considerable sum of money grant to well effect ? what matter be which part of the country attract most of the private investment . for all the public investment that government have put in , it will always be greatly exceed by the total amount of private sector investment , because in our more free enterprise society , our private sector economy be still large than the public sector economy , unlike in true socialist or communist state . that private investment be often the driver of many of the well - pay job and levelling - up opportunity that can then be create . I be keen that we get a well balance in where new housing be build not so much because of the impact that I see of too much housing be put up in a hurry in my area , but because I think that more of that investment should go to place that want levelling - up money and that need a well balance of development . those place could do with a lot of the private investment that all too often come to part of the country that do not qualify for levelling - up money . every time I get a new housing estate in Wokingham , I have to go to a Minister and say , " we need a new primary school . " after we have have half a dozen new housing estate , as we regularly do , I have to go and say , " we need a new secondary school . " those be big ticket item , and that be big public sector investment that have to go to a part of the country that do not need to be level up . more difficult be try to get money for road , because we have this strange idea that we can put as many housing estate as we like into a place like Wokingham and magically our exist road network will take it when people buy those house and practically all of they have car ; well , it can not . we then need bypass , extra road capacity or extra train capacity . we need the utility to put in more water and electricity capacity , otherwise we have the embarrassment that we have lovely new house , but it be difficult to hitch they up to a grid that work . there be great pressure and huge amount of consequential investment from the new housing that come into a congested area of the country that do not qualify for level up . I urge all party to do a little more thinking about how we level up area and to ask why it be that so many people wish to visit huge amount of private sector housing investment in place that be level up , while starve the rest of the country of it , when it be often the motor of the levelling up that they seek . it be always a pleasure to follow my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) , who as ever speak with sense and clarity . I have be heavily involve with this Bill throughout its passage , not least when sit on the Bill Committee for six month . the Bill have be materially improve as we have go through the process . I be not say that it be all the way there yet , but it have be materially improve along the way . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for the time she have give I and right hon . and hon . friend over recent day and week to engage on the substance of the Bill . I start with Lords amendment 239 and the Government amendment in lieu that will remove the restriction that have perversely persist in the childcare system and local government for some time . I will not rehearse the argument that be well make in the House last night in a general debate lead by my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) about the supply and demand challenge in childcare , but I genuinely believe that the Government amendment in lieu will make a big difference to the provision of childcare , which present challenge in many of our community . I want briefly to add my voice to the debate about Lords amendment 22 on the challenging question of virtual meeting in local government . I have say before and I maintain my position that I hate virtual meeting . I can not stand they and would always much rather meet someone in person . however , the Bill talk much about local decision making , devolution and let people decide , and there be overwhelming demand — the evidence from the National Association of Local Councils show that some 90 % of town and parish council want the ability to hold virtual meeting in some way to expand the ability of people to participate — so it be beyond I why we can not in some way permit such local decision make to take place . the hon . Member be make a very good point , and I agree with he entirely . it be really important to expand the range of people who have access to become a local councillor . People be not pay to be a full - time councillor , so they need to be give lot of opportunity to get to meeting and participate fully . do he agree that this be a really important point about expand representation ? I do agree with the fundamental principle of expand accessibility and the ability for people to take part in local government , particularly those hero who be completely unpaid and unremunerate for the many hour they put in to town and parish council around the country . like the hon . Lady , I represent an entirely rural constituency , where parish be often quite big . to look back to my own local government day in my 20 , I be a councillor in a London borough that be small , at 6 . 1 square mile , than every parish in the 335 square mile I be lucky enough to represent today . we have to look at the distance , even within a parish , that some people have to endure to go to a planning meeting or to get their voice hear on the very local issue that their town or parish council be determine . I urge my hon . friend the Minister to reflect on whether there be a way the Government can meet local demand for allow , at least in part , some virtual access to local democracy . the bulk of the Bill be about plan reform , and the lion ' s share of the amendment we be consider relate to planning reform . it be a Bill that will affect every community across our entire United Kingdom , and the lens through which I look at a number of the amendment be to ask : do these amendment support , do nothing to , or hinder the so - call December compromise ? that be the compromise that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State agree with I and a number of right hon . and hon . friend last December , not least my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) and my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) . I shall start with Lords amendment 6 on the question of rural proofing . I absolutely and totally support lock into the Bill the concept of rural proofing , but there be a number of point I would ask the Minister to reflect on while make this particular commitment . of course , anybody can say that they be go to " have regard to " anything at all . when I find myself in the supermarket with my child , I could have regard to their demand to put only chocolate , crisp and ice cream into the trolley . it do not mean that I be necessarily go to follow through on that , in my view , unreasonable demand . much of the legislation we pass in this place can be judge upon , and under a legal challenge it be not unknown for the judiciary to look back at what be say at the Dispatch Box . I would therefore find it incredibly helpful if the Minister , in sum up , expand a little on how the Government see that rural proofing . what be the define principle of the rural proofing that the amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 6 talk about ? inextricably link to that have to be the content of the new national planning policy framework . it be a frustration that we be unable to see the final text of the NPPF until after the Bill achieve Royal Assent , not least because there be a lot of point that some of we fight hard for in the early stage of our consideration of the Bill that we be promise would be in the new NPPF and that will help to define this question of rural proofing . in particular , I be pleased to secure an amendment to the NPPF through the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) that explicitly change the old language around " good and most versatile agricultural land " to the very tightly define and binary question of land use in food production . that be because " good and most versatile " be always a lawyer ’ paradise — a subjective test that could be argue to the nth degree . change the wording to protection for land use in food production make it binary : it either be or be not . that will give clarity to planning authority up and down the land when consider application within our rural community . I fear that food security be play second fiddle to energy security when we see the vast swathe of solar application and , likewise , the level of commercial and housing planning application on agricultural land — on land use for food production . I include in that category 3b land , which be what most of my constituency be . it still manage to produce 10 - tonne - a - hectare wheat yield , to graze cattle and sheep , and to produce the food we all like to eat . the point I be get to be that it be incumbent on the Government to recognise within rural proofing that rural need to remain rural . without farming — without agriculture , without farmer — there be no rural , because it be the farmer who maintain the landscape : it be the farmer who cut the hedge and keep our countryside as beautiful as it be . if we do not have that , there will be knock - on consequence on everything else that happen in the countryside , not least on the backbone of many rural economy : tourism . if it be not beautiful and it have all become solar farm , housing or commercial warehouse , we will not have the tourism offer either . I therefore encourage the Minister , when sum up , to reassure the House that in respect of the amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 6 , rural proofing really do mean keep the rural rural . turn to Lords amendment 44 , I have considerable concern that when so much of the December compromise be about vest local decision in the hand of local authority — in the hand of local people , where I believe decision on planning matter absolutely should be take , whether on housing need , commercial development or development to do with energy security — the national development management policy be explicitly list in the Bill as have primacy over those local decision - make mechanism . I welcome the amendment in lieu that the Government have table to extend consultation to some degree ; my initial preference be that the full parliamentary scrutiny lock that the Lords suggest would have be the preferable measure . I ask the Minister and the wide Government to find a way of absolutely ensure that when we say that local decision making be paramount , we really mean it and that there be not those get - out clause that sometimes a statutory consultation simply can not answer . otherwise , we will set a dangerous precedent where people put in place their local plan and neighbourhood plan and believe that they be in control , but then a national monster — in whatever form it take — come along and walk all over that . the people of Buckinghamshire be all too aware of that with certain infrastructure project be build through the county right now — I never miss an opportunity to get that in , Mr Deputy Speaker . I associate myself with the comment make by my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) , although he have leave his place , about the Planning Inspectorate . I urge the Minister to consider his comment on that carefully . lastly , I turn to Lords amendment 80 , on flooding . across Buckinghamshire and my Buckingham constituency , there have be countless example of house in particular build in the floodplain . these be house that the local authority turn down but the Planning Inspectorate grant . then — surprise , surprise — when flooding issue have come along , the developer have raise the level of the house , in some case by in excess of a metre , so that , when the land do flood , it flood not the new home that it have sell for in excess of £ 1 million but the exist house that surround it . I think of one example in the village of Ickford in my constituency where that very thing happen — I even stand in my wellie in the flood water before the foundation be dig on the development . the house be then build with whopping great slope in the back garden lead to the exist home , and when the new owner move in and try to dig their garden to plant flower bed , do all the thing people love to do in their garden — surprise , surprise — they find that they quickly hit layer of rubble and stone where the developer have raise the land by that height . I urge my hon . friend the Minister to consider how we can look at Lords amendment 80 much more carefully and properly stop the perversity of house builder be allow to build in these floodplain , often hide behind expert evidence they pay for and control , which it be difficult for other to give proper scrutiny to and disprove , even though everyone in the neighbourhood — that village , town or wherever it might be — will tell they straight down the lens , " that land flood , and if you build house on it , those house will flood too . " the Bill be materially well than when we start with it last year . I repeat my thank to my hon . friend the Minister for the engagement she have give and urge she to push that little bit far in order to iron out those final gremlin and get it to be a Bill that community can be really confident will protect they . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) . I rise to give my general support to the Bill and to speak to that , as well as to reflect on some of the housing and planning issue , which be relevant to many of the amendment , include Lords amendment 44 on national development management policy , which several hon . member have refer to . but I will first say a quick word of welcome and support for additional protection for ancient woodland , which be much need for conserve valuable habitat . I also add my voice to those urge Ministers to consider in their discussion with the other place whether they could accept some flexibility in allow council to meet remotely in certain circumstance . during the covid emergency , we see how , in some way , the ability to meet virtually do have advantage . we see the Planning Inspectorate use virtual meeting very well — and it be not often that I say positive thing about the Planning Inspectorate . that be something for the Minister to reflect on in relation to Lords amendment 22 . turn to the general issue on housing delivery that be envisage by a number of amendment , excessive housing target have be make it hard and hard for council to turn down bad development proposal . that be lead to the loss of agricultural , greenfield and , in some case , green - belt land , and to increase pressure to urbanise the suburb . plan for block of flat , include some massive tower block , be appear all over my constituency and the surround area . to name just a few of the problematic proposal , there be the North London Business Park , Victoria Quarter , the Spires , Whalebones , High Barnet tube station , Cockfosters tube station , Barnet House and , last but not least , Edgware town centre , where the centrepiece be propose to be a 29 - storey apartment block . it be just relentless . where council refuse application , planning inspector can often overturn the decision on the basis that the development be need to meet the target . that be why , along with my hon . friend the Members for Buckingham and for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) , I table new clause 21 on Report , which obtain the backing of 60 member of the House . in response , the Secretary of State bring forward important concession to give community great control over what be build in their neighbourhood , in what have become know as the December compromise . but I be afraid that the battle be not over . we need to see the reform deliver . the extent to which the compromise fix current problem depend on how it be implement in the new national planning policy framework , which have yet to be publish . I join other in call for that to happen as quickly as possible , although I put on record my thank to the Secretary of State for today ' s briefing from official on what the new NPPF be likely to contain . the consultation on the NPPF promise that brownfield development would be prioritise over greenfield , but we need more detail , and certainty on how that " brownfield first " approach will be deliver in practice . even on brownfield site , it remain crucial to respect matter relate to local suburban character and density . Brownfield first do not mean a brownfield free - for - all . the Secretary of State crucially promise that if meet the top - down target involve build at density that be significantly out of character with the area , a low target can be set in the local plan . if the Bill be to deliver real change , we need to know that a substantial proportion of council be likely to be able to benefit from that new flexibility , and depart from the centrally determined top - down target . that be the only way to ensure that the centrally determined target will become , as the Secretary of State have promise , an advisory starting point rather than a mandatory end result . the Secretary of State also promise to clip the wing of the Planning Inspectorate . that mean firm and clear instruction need to be give to the inspectorate to accept local plan from council base on reasonable evidence . scrap the duty to co - operate be another promise but , accord to the consultation document , the NPPF envisage that it will be replace by an unspecified alignment policy . we do not yet know whether the duty to co - operate be be scrap or just re - label . we need to understand what that alignment policy will involve . turn to Lords amendment 44 on national development management policy , local development management policy provide a bulwark of defence against overdevelopment , for example by constrain height , prevent family home be replace by block of flat or provide extra protection for green space . what be propose in the Bill be central control over these policy by replace they with national development management policy . that be quite a radical change — probably one of the most radical planning change in the Bill . it undermine the long - stand principle that the local plan have primacy . minister say that be not intend , but ndmp could still be use , in theory , to re - write more or less the entire planning system , which would significantly restrict local decision making . I welcome the Government ' s amendment to ensure that ndmp be consult on , but I urge they to consider go far and accept that there must also be parliamentary scrutiny . ndmp , as the shadow Minister be correct to point out , will have a more widespread impact than national policy statement , which tend to be focus on a single sector or even a single project . it be therefore only reasonable to apply standard of scrutiny to ndmp that be equivalent to those apply to nps , and that be what amendment 44 would do . it would be useful for the Government to look far at that point . finally , I welcome the indication by Ministers that the flexibility contain in the December compromise will apply in London , but there be still an urgent need to curb the power of the Mayor to impose target on the borough . he have use the London plan to try to load additional housing delivery obligation on to the suburb , especially on borough , such as Barnet , that have already build thousand of new home . we be the party that promise to scrap regional target , but regional target be alive and kick in our capital city . crucial progress on rebalance the planning system have be make as a result of the engagement between Ministers and Back Benchers on new clause 21 on report and engagement throughout the parliamentary scrutiny process . if properly implement , the December compromise will give community a great say on what be build in their area , while also accelerate the delivery of new home , especially on the inner - city brownfield site refer to by the Secretary of State in his long - term plan for housing publish in July . but all that would be at risk if there be a Labour Government . they want to rip up the rule that have protect green - belt land for decade , leave we vulnerable to urban sprawl and jeopardise precious habitat . moreover , the Leader of the Opposition be clear that local voice will be " ignore " in the planning system if he ever get the key to Downing Street . that be a grave threat to the local environment in my constituency and it be one of many reason why I will be campaign so hard to return another Conservative Government and a fifth historic election victory next time around . I be really pleased to see the Bill finally back in this place — it have be a while . I remember say to a former Housing Minister a year or so ago — one of several former Housing Ministers — when the planning element be introduce to what be previously quite a tightly write regeneration and devolution Bill , that it might cause some challenge and delay that be perhaps not entirely necessary . but here we be . I will leave it to your judgment , Mr Deputy Speaker , whether I have be prove right or not . I do not want to talk about planning , actually . I want to talk about the key thing in the Bill for my part of the world , which be the element of level up , regeneration and devolution . there be a number of element and amendment I want to touch on . first , I want to mention something that be slightly aside from that , which be Lords amendment 22 . the Levelling up Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , will not be surprised — I have already have this conversation with he — that I agree with the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , who be no long in his place . when we have a Bill that seek to devolve power down to local government , it seem a little bit mad to be so prescriptive from Westminster on whether and how they hold their meeting , for example on whether they could do so in a hybrid way . a number of colleague on the Government Benches have express reservation about that , perhaps on the basis that local government leader might all go off and hold their annual budget meeting entirely on Teams , but I do not think that would happen . as the Father of the House say , it would give small rural parish council , which be man largely by volunteer , the flexibility to be more accessible . my deputy leader be currently unwell and can not drive , but he would still be able to attend hybrid meeting if that be allow . flexibility in a Bill that aim , overall , to pass more power down to local government would be a welcome and consistent thing . that say , many of the element of the Bill be really positive and important . the devolution element in particular and the creation of the county combine authority be the thing that unlock devolution and investment for the east midland , and for Nottinghamshire and derbyshire , for the first time . that be a really exciting prospect . we see in the Prime Minister ' s conference speech last week £ 1 . 5 billion of additional transport funding for my constituency , county and region in the next term of the combine authority , with election to be hold , subject to the passage of the Bill , in May 2024 . that £ 1 . 5 billion for two county the size of our over such a short period — it be a five - year settlement — be a huge amount of money and present a huge opportunity by bring into scope many of the road and rail project for which our area have be wait a very long time . as a result of all the local nuance , such as low land value , we have never manage to get those project to the top of the Treasury ' s Green Book list — we have never manage to make they into national priority — but they be local priority , and for the first time they will be deliverable at a local level , which be very exciting . my constituent will take heart from the fact that , for instance , the Robin Hood and Maid marian line , which we have be talk about for a decade , will now be in our gift , subject to the passage of the Bill . I entirely agree with the Government ' s stance in reject Lords amendment 13 and 14 . I be directly involve in the negotiation on the delivery of the structure and voting right of district council in our propose East Midlands combine county authority , and we have have a very constructive relationship . they have lobby I to vote in favour of Lords amendment 13 , and , because of the importance and value of that relationship , I want to explain my reasoning very clearly . I think the Government be do the right thing in reject the amendment because of the premise of create combined county authority . in previous iteration , we have not be able to secure the unanimity across 18 district and borough that would allow we to deliver devolution . if they have all agree to be full member of the combine authority we could have do that eight year ago , at the time when the West Midlands and Greater Manchester do it , but because we have not be able to find the necessary consensus we have miss out on more than £ 6 billion during that period , relative to Greater Manchester . for the last eight year we have look enviously over the border at the west midland — and at the Teesside constituency of the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) — at all the investment and support that they have have and that we could have have . the combined county authority principle give we the opportunity to deliver that , in a slightly different way with a slightly more flexible approach . prevent the inclusion of Lords amendment 13 do not mean exclude the voice of district and borough . in our combine authority , they will have vote right on issue that affect their power and their remit . it will be impossible not to include they in the decision - make process when they be the planning authority , and , indeed , the combine authority will be unable to deliver a great deal without their consent . it be important to emphasise that say that they can not be full constituent member do not mean they will not have a say , and those right and those power . in fact , if they could all agree to be full constituent member , even now , we could still deliver a consensual version under the current statute without the need for the Bill . as for Lords amendment 14 , which concern associate member , we have already decide and agree locally that there be not enough legitimacy in voting right for non - elect member of the combine authority who would not be ultimately accountable to the public through election . I be pleased that the Government agree with that principle . let I finally say something about locally lead urban development corporation . we in the east midland have have one of those , in an interim form , for some year . Covid delay its power , but it have do some fantastic master - planning in significant part of our region , seek to secure the maximum public good from private sector investment in , for example , our freeport and site such as Ratcliffe - on - Soar and Toton . the urban development corporation provide a great opportunity — particularly when work in conjunction with the combine authority — to take a long - term , strategic approach to planning and delivery , whether that mean business and commercial investment or housing , and to do so in a more long - term and join - up way . the planning power in the corporation mean that that can also be deliver more swiftly and easily . this be another exciting prospect , so I be pleased that after be an interim vehicle for a number of year , the east midland development corporation will finally acquire its full range of power and opportunity . I really welcome the Bill return . I be excited about the opportunity that it bring to Mansfield and to Nottinghamshire and derbyshire in the new county combine authority through significant new investment in our transport network , in our economic development and in major flagship project . I have use the example of STEP Fusion in Bassetlaw on a regular basis to describe the impact that this can have on our region . we have a £ 20 billion investment in clean energy and exciting new job in the nuclear industry in north Nottinghamshire , and a new combine authority that can wrap around that , work with provider of skill and training to ensure that my constituent can access those job . we can also wrap the transport infrastructure around that , whether that involve bus , road or rail , to ensure that they can get in and out to those job . we have never have the opportunity to deliver this at local level before , and those change will be really meaningful in the long term . child grow up on estate in Mansfield now will have job opportunity in 10 , 15 or 20 year ' time that they could never previously have dream of , so this be a huge opportunity . my one ask of the Government — in addition to what I have say in my short speech — be that this must be deliver in the next fortnight in order for we to have our regional election next year . this must be deliver before prorogation ; otherwise , we will run out of time and my constituent will have to wait for month or even a year for access to these power and fund , so I urge the Minister to ensure that we get this deliver in time . I begin by add my congratulation , in her temporary absence from the Chamber , to the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) on her maiden speech , which strongly impress the House with her environmental commitment and credential and which include generous tribute to some of her predecessor — not least to David Heath , whom many of we remember with affection and respect , and also to the late Mavis Tate , who may not be so well known to hon . member of the House . she be a Conservative Member of Parliament during the war year , and indeed before the war . unfortunately , she be a member of the team of 10 parliamentarian who go to visit the Buchenwald concentration camp , and what she see there so undermine her mental health that she take her own life two year later in 1947 . it be sad to reflect that , nearly 80 year later , comparable atrocity be still be carry out , for not dissimilar reason , in part of the middle east . as a leaseholder myself , I would like to associate myself with the comment of the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , on the vulnerability of leaseholder to abuse of power by freeholder . that be something on which he have campaign most effectively for a number of year . I also share the concern of my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) about build work that be allow to proceed in the face of accurate prediction of future flooding . I know of more than one case of that happen in my own constituency . my primary reason for make a brief contribution to the debate be to flag up the concern that I refer to early about the decision of the Government not to accept Lords amendment 13 . I be to a degree reassure by what I hear from the Front Bench , which be reiterate quite effectively by my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) a few moment ago — namely , the assurance that district council will in fact be able to make a contribution when decision be make that directly affect they . yet if there be an opportunity for further elaboration on that , I would like to hear it . I have probably hear enough to prevent I from rebel against the Government , but whether I feel I can go all the way and vote against what the New Forest District Council chairman Jill Cleary , a conservative chairman of a Conservative District Council , feel be so important be another matter . for the record , this be what those concern amount to . lord amendment 13 state that , for combine county authority : " a Minister of the Crown may by regulation establish a process for non - constituent member to become full member . " the district council feel this be a vital addition to the Bill , otherwise power will steal away from community and be concentrate at county level without sufficient active district involvement . indeed , the district council point to a survey of people in shire area early this year , which show high level of trust in and satisfaction with district council — high level than for other part of local and national Government . I conclude by quote directly from Jill Cleary ' s letter : " district council hold lever which be indispensable in create job , improve economic opportunity , address skill shortage , tackle inequality and revive local pride — precisely the outcome at the heart of level up agenda that the Bill seek to reinforce . district council be the housing and planning authority in two - tier area . we drive economic development in our place . we have strong link to local business , big and small , and a track record of attract inward investment . it simply make no sense that district should be exclude from these new devolution deal . " I appeal to the Minister , once again , to make it clear both to this House and to my concerned and esteemed local district council that it will not be sideline or exclude by the Government ' s refusal to accept Lords amendment 13 . I call Peter aldous to make the last Back - Bench contribution , so anybody who have contribute to the debate should start make their way to the Chamber . we be expect a large number of vote . I will speak to three amendment , to highlight some concern about why the Government be oppose change make in the other place that , at face value , appear to have some merit , and to seek further clarification as to what they be do to address those concern . a number of my hon . and right hon . friend have mention Lords amendment 22 , which relate to local authority hold virtual meeting . I be a vice - president of the Suffolk Association of Local Councils , and the feedback I have receive from all tier of local government in Suffolk be that they support the Lords amendment , which the Government oppose . I acknowledge the Government ' s view that a core principle of local democracy be that citizen should be able to attend local council meeting to interact in person with their local representative . however , instead of an absolute bar on virtual attendance , I would suggest that allow local discretion , pursue a common - sense approach , be more appropriate for the follow reason . first , 90 % to 95 % of council at all level , base on their own individual experience , support such an approach , which be endorse by the Local Government Association , the National Association of Local Councils and the Society of Local Council Clerks . secondly , many town and parish council have difficulty in retain a full slate of councillor . they regularly have to co - opt new member , and contest election be invariably the exception rather than the rule . allow some local discretion with regard to the holding of council meeting would remove barrier to become a councillor for such group as the disabled , parent , carer and full - time worker . these group all have a great deal to contribute to their local community , but many of they be put off by the straitjacket of be expect to attend all council meeting in person . thirdly , some local council , such as Suffolk County Council and the Broads Authority , which straddle Suffolk and Norfolk , cover large geographical area , and one have to ask whether it be appropriate to require councillor to drive up to an hour and a half for a meeting . I be think , for example , of a journey from Bungay in north Suffolk , in my constituency , to Ipswich , which be a three - hour round trip . we be seek to encourage less use of our car , as we strive towards net zero . attend these meeting on that basis be expensive , time - consume and inappropriate when we should be look to lessen our carbon footprint . do my hon . friend think there be an inconsistency here : company board meeting can be conduct virtually and during covid Parliament be attend virtually , yet parish council meeting can not be ? I agree entirely with my right hon . friend on that point . come out of covid , a lot of parish council have raise that issue with I . from their perspective , they have make well - reason case . they be not go to go daft . there be perhaps a nightmare scenario of local councillor never leave their home and , as a result , be abstract from the community they represent . but they will not do that . they will be very mindful of their responsibility and they would use this provision sensibly . at a time when we be talk about cascade down responsibility to local authority , it appear slightly perverse to be say , " no , you ' ve get to do it this way . " my next point relate to Lords amendment 46 and 327 , which would require the Secretary of State to promote healthy home and neighbourhood through a regulatory framework for planning and the build environment . as we have hear , the Government be seek to strike out those amendment , on the basis that they will cut across the action the Government be already take to improve the quality of new home , will create uncertainty and risk legal challenge and delay . I would readily accept that argument if the exist policy be work well , but it be not ; it be complex and focus only on risk reduction . we should bear it in mind that from a high - quality home a host of benefit ensue and cascade down : well health and less pressure on the NHS ; and an enhanced environment for learn , do homework and pass the exam and get the qualification that enable people to realise their life ambition , thereby ensure social mobility . that in turn lead to improvement in national economic productivity . if the Government be to strike out those amendment , they need to fast - track their review of the decent home standard and future home standard and to put they in a coherent , positive and ambitious framework . finally , Lords amendment 45 require the Secretary of State to have special regard to climate change mitigation and adaptation in prepare national policy , plan policy and advice relate to the development or use of land . as we have hear , the Government oppose the amendment on the basis that it could trigger a slew of litigation , which would hinder action need to safeguard the environment , and that it repeat exist policy and statutory requirement . they also say that the importance of the environment be already restate in the Bill . I take that on board , although I would highlight three concern . first , to achieve our net zero obligation , there be a need for an enormous amount of private sector investment . as the UK Green Building Council point out , pension fund , corporate investor and construction company require clarity , consistency and certainty in the policy framework . at present , that be missing and the business and investment community be confused . secondly , the exist system have create an inconsistency whereby local authority must take net zero into account in develop their local plan , but the Planning Inspectorate and the Secretary of State , as we hear on a number of occasion , do not have to give net zero the same level of consideration . if this Lords amendment do not stand , at the very least the Government need to remove that ambiguity as quickly as possible . finally , I be mindful that in Waveney , my own backyard , in Suffolk and across East Anglia , we be at the forefront of the challenge and opportunity arise from climate change . we have an exposed and vulnerable coast , we be low lying and prone to flooding , and we be the dry region in the UK . that say , we have great economic opportunity arise from the low - carbon economy , in the form of offshore wind , nuclear and hydrogen . local authority and local business in the eastern region have innovative plan to well address these threat and to maximise the benefit arise from these opportunity . however , as matter stand , they be constrain by the inconsistency I have outline . a great emphasis on climate change mitigation would provide some certainty and would help to attract the private sector investment I mention that , as we be see , be globally footloose . these be the concern I have . I acknowledge that the Bill should not be see as the panacea for all our ill and I have listen to the assurance that my hon . friend the Minister have provide . I hope that she might be able to allay some of the concern I have outline in she sum up . it be a pleasure to be able to respond to the point make by colleague across the House . this be a complex and important Bill , and it have be a thoughtful and well set out debate ; everyone have contribute . I thank colleague across the House for their remark . I can assure everyone that the Government have listen extremely carefully to those . because I have limit time , I may not be able to give as full an exposition on every single point , but I hope colleague will not be disappoint and my door be always open to colleague — as be the door of all my ministerial colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities — to listen to any specific problem that people will have . therefore , I want to thank the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) and my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) for their comment . I thank the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) for her maiden speech and congratulate she on how she deliver it and its content . I listen to it with great interest and particularly note her advocacy for and championing of the cider industry in her constituency , as well as she stand up for farmer . I be sure that be something that every single Member of the House can strongly agree with . I wish she all the good for her parliamentary career . I thank my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) , my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) , my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) and my hon . friend the Members for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) and for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) for their comment . I also thank colleague from the Opposition Front Benches for their constructive comment . we have definitely reach agreement on some point , although not all , which be not surprising give the range of issue we have be look at . I want to touch on a few theme that colleague have raise . I hope that we can go some way to address the specific question put to I by they . colleague have raise concern about how national development management policy will operate in practice ; people have say they be think ahead to how those could operate in practice . I want to be clear that , where a decision be make in accordance with the development plan , national development management policy and a specific local policy , and ndmp be relevant consideration but not in conflict , as part of a planning judgment , it will still be for the decision maker to decide how much weight be afford to those different policy base on their relevance to the propose development . the precedence clause set out only what should be do in the event of a conflict between policy and where they contradict one another . we do expect such conflict to be limit in future because of the more distinct role that national and local policy will have . in response to question ask by many hon . and right hon . member , I can assure the House that we will be consult far on how that will operate . my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ask : what do the provision mean when it say the Secretary of State can act urgently ? I reassure she that that refer to very limited circumstance such as the unprecedented situation that we see during the pandemic . it be envisage that that provision would be use only in those sort of urgent and emergency situation . there have be much debate about the role of district council in the future combine county authority . I have definitely hear the point that colleague have make . we do value the amazing work that be do by district council . I wish to thank my own district council — Redditch Borough Council — for the incredible work that it do . I know that member have thank their own local authority . I listen very carefully to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield . it be right that we want devolution to work and the voice of those district council be really important . the Under - Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , have be very clear in his discussion that we be encourage potential area to consider how good to involve district council — they make a unique contribution — in recognition of the role that they play , without hold up those important devolution arrangement . I have be strike by the number of colleague who have talk about remote meeting and challenge the Government ' s position on that . it be the Government ' s view that face - to - face democracy should remain in place and that physical attendance at meeting be important , not just to build strong working relationship , but to deliver good governance and democratic accountability . it be clearly right that councillor be regularly and routinely meet other councillor in person and that member of the public can ask question in person . some of these measure be bring in during the pandemic . now that the pandemic have pass , it be right to consider reverse those and get back to that face - to - face democracy . however , we be look at a call for evidence on this matter and we will publish the result of that as soon as possible . it seem to I that it would be a good idea to consult parish council in particular and to have a debate in the House of Commons when the Government have have their response . for the Government to say what their view be , be one thing . for Parliament , which give power to authority , to decide we do not want to tell they how to discuss use those power be another . those authority be limit by the power . in my view , they should not be limit in how they discuss they . I thank the Father of the House for those comment . I can assure he that the Government be carefully consider his point , and those make by other colleague . I turn to rural - proofing and the vital role of rural area — a point make by a number of colleague , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham . he ask how we will make sure that we abide by our commitment to rural - proofing in the Bill . I wish to be clear that we be fully behind the objective to make sure that rural area benefit from our levelling - up agenda . we want to make sure that the need of people and business in rural area be at the heart of policymake , include through rural - proofing . the report that we publish early last year demonstrate that we be make real progress on all sort of issue , include digital connectivity and action to tackle rural crime . my hon . Friend also ask about the use of agricultural land for food production — again , an issue close to the heart of many of we who represent rural area . the Government agree that we must seek to protect our food production and rural environment , and we will publish the consultation response on that issue very shortly . that bring I to a question that I think I have be ask by every single Member of the House who have speak , which be about the national planning policy framework response . People be anxious to see the detail of that , and I understand why . we have a huge number of response to this vital planning consultation , which represent a significant change to plan policy and something that the industry be clearly call for . we have see problem with our planning system , and we do need to make sure that it be fit for the modern day and can deliver the home that people need in community , build to the high standard . that be our objective and we need to get it right . I be pleased that we have be able to work with many colleague across the House , in particular my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) and my hon . friend the Members for Buckingham and for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) , on the specific concern they have raise . we will publish the response as soon as possible , or in any case shortly , and our position remain as set out in the Secretary of State ' s letter of December 2022 . turn to the vital issue of onshore wind , I recognise the contribution from my right hon . friend the Members for read West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) and for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) . we will respond shortly to the consultation on local partnership for onshore wind , include on improvement to the system of community benefit . I recognise the challenge to the Government by my right hon . friend the Member for read West to set out more clearly what the benefit will look like . I hope he can see that the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero be on the Front Bench and have be do considerable work on this matter . there be very successful scheme across the country already that deliver discount on energy bill of up to £ 300 a year , and we see great potential to go a lot far . we hope that colleague continue to support we in that vital work . I will touch on climate change , which have be raise by several right hon . and hon . member . I want to be clear that the Government take meet the challenge of respond to climate change through the planning policy system seriously . that be why there be already a climate change requirement in the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 . that be restate in schedule 8 to the Bill , which amend the 2004 Act by add propose new section 15c ( 9 ) , which set out that local planning authority must design their local plan " to secure that the use and development of land in the local planning authority ' s area contribute to the mitigation of , and adaption to , climate change . " as part of our programme of change to the planning system , we intend to complete a full review of the national planning policy framework to ensure that it contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation as fully as possible . I hate to take my hon . friend back to my early question , but she have not answer it . until we get a new NPPF , planning inspector will refer to the previous one , and that leave the option open to they to make decision that be not in line with the legislation . will the Minister give guidance to planning inspector now that in the interim , until the new NPPF be in place , they must take account of what be in legislation pass by the House , rather than refer to the previous NPPF ? otherwise , we will find ourselves in the perverse position where local authority can give permission to development that be against what the Government be propose on area such as the five - year land bank and housing target . we can not allow ourselves to be politically expose like that . this be a party that want to win a general election and that expect Ministers to give direction to the planning inspector . I assure my right hon . friend that I hear his remark and concern . until we have publish the response on the NPPF , it be not possible for we to give direction to the planning inspector in the way that he have ask . he will also know that the Planning Inspectorate have to work within the framework policy and the legislation of the time . it be important to set out that local area must get their local plan in place , and I hope that his local area be do so . that be the good way to ensure that it deliver house that command the consent of his constituent , for whom he be advocate superbly . the Bill address the entrench disparity that exist across the United Kingdom , back by billion of pound - worth of funding , include , I must add , for Scotland . the hon . member for Airdrie and Shotts ( Ms Qaisar ) , who speak for the Scottish National party , be a little ungenerous in her remark , so I want to land with she the significant investment that this Government be make in Scotland — I think the figure be £ 394 million — to boost community across the country . this Government set clear long - term objective for level up and be hold accountable for — rise — I be suppose to be wind up , but I will take one final intervention . I be grateful and will be brief . during an early intervention , I ask the Minister for clarity on the specific question of the duty to co - operate . can she give I that clarity before she wind up ? I can confirm for my right hon . friend that we will scrap the duty to co - operate for the reason that she mention . we will consult on how we expect local authority to work together . I urge she to work with we and to contribute to that consultation when we bring it forward in due course . the Bill devolve power to all area of England , modernise the planning system and strengthen environmental protection . we have , of course , hear hon . member ’ point , which we will consider carefully as the Bill complete its passage . the Government be on the side of the builder , community and homeowner — present and future — across our country . I commend it to the House . amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 117 . government amendment ( b ) to ( d ) make to Lords amendment 117 . lord amendment 117 , as amend , agree to . after clause 214 - power to replace Health and Safety Executive as build safety regulator Amendment ( a ) propose to Lords amendment 231 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Amanda Solloway Robert Largan Alistair Carmichael Daisy Cooper Edward Davey Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Stephen Farry Wera Hobhouse Caroline Lucas Layla Moran Helen Morgan Munira Wilson Wendy Chamberlain the House divide : Ayes 307 , Noes 10 . question accordingly agree to . Amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 231 . lord amendment 231 , as amend , agree to , with Commons financial privilege waive . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make to Lords amendment 237 . lord amendment 237 , as amend , agree to . government amendment ( a ) , ( c ) , ( b ) and ( d ) make to Lords amendment 369 . Lords amendment 369 , as amend , agree to . clause 1 - statement of level - up mission Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Amanda Solloway Robert Largan Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Geraint Davies Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patrick Grady Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 309 , Noes 190 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 1 disagree to . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Amanda Solloway Robert Largan Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patrick Grady Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 301 , Noes 195 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 2 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 4 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Scott Mann Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patrick Grady Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 298 , Noes 197 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 4 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 2 and 4 . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Scott Mann Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patrick Grady Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 300 , Noes 193 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 3 disagree to . lord amendment 6 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( d ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 6 . after clause 5 - levelling up Fund : round three Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 10 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Scott Mann Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patrick Grady Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 297 , Noes 193 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 10 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 10 . clause 9 - non - constituent member of a CCA Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 13 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob seely Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Julie Marson Andrew Stephenson Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 304 , Noes 159 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 13 disagree to . Lords amendment 14 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( p ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 14 . lord amendment 18 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 18 . after clause 70 - local authority to be allow to meet virtually Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 22 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Crispin Blunt Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Julie Marson Andrew Stephenson Debbie Abrahams Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Daniel Poulter Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 303 , Noes 157 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 22 disagree to . lord amendment 30 and 31 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( d ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 30 and 31 . clause 87 - National development management policy : mean Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 44 — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Andrew Stephenson Julie Marson Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Samantha Dixon the House divide : Ayes 302 , Noes 152 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 44 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 44 . after clause 87 - Duties in relation to mitigation of , and adaptation to , climate change in relation to plan Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 45 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Fay Jones Steve Double Debbie Abrahams Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Daniel Poulter Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Chris Skidmore Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Samantha Dixon the House divide : Ayes 303 , Noes 152 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 45 disagree to . Lords amendment 46 disagree to . Lords amendment 80 disagree to . after clause 123 - Developments affect ancient woodland Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 81 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Fay Jones Steve Double Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Hilary Benn Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 299 , Noes 148 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 81 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 81 . planning application fee Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 82 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Fay Jones Stephen Doughty Alistair Carmichael Daisy Cooper Edward Davey Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Wera Hobhouse Caroline Lucas Layla Moran Helen Morgan Jamie Stone Wendy Chamberlain Munira Wilson the House divide : Ayes 304 , Noes 12 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 82 disagree to . clause 138 Power to specify environmental outcome Lords amendment 90 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 90 . clause 143 - Requirements to consult devolve administration Lords amendment 102 disagree to . Lords amendment 103 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( d ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 102 and 103 . Lords amendment 133 disagree to . Lords amendment 134 disagree to . Lords amendment 137 disagree to . lord amendment 139 disagree to . lord amendment 142 disagree to . Lords amendment 156 disagree to . lord amendment 157 disagree to . Lords amendment 172 disagree to . lord amendment 180 disagree to . after Clause 197 - high street financial service Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 199 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Mike Wood Ruth Edwards Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Hilary Benn Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 295 , Noes 143 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 199 disagree to . Lords amendment 239 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 239 . Lords amendment 240 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 240 . after clause 214 - Regeneration of school and hospital : register of serious disrepair Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 241 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Ruth Edwards Mike Wood Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Hilary Benn Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Stephen Timms Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 291 , Noes 139 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 241 disagree to . lord amendment 242 , 243 and 288 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( d ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 242 , 243 and 288 . after clause 214 - Onshore wind development Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 244 — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Ruth Edwards Mike Wood Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Hilary Benn Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Chris Skidmore Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Craig Whittaker Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 289 , Noes 136 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 244 disagree to . Lords amendment 249 disagree to . clause 222 - commencement and transitional provision Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 273 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Andrew Stephenson Stuart Anderson Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Samantha Dixon the House divide : Ayes 285 , Noes 132 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 273 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 273 . lord amendment 280 disagree to . Lords amendment 285 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 285 . lord amendment 327 disagree to . schedule 7 - plan make Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 329 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Jo Churchill Stuart Anderson Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 286 , Noes 131 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 329 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 329 . lord amendment 5 , 7 to 9 , 11 , 12 , 15 to 17 , 19 to 21 , 23 to 29 , 32 to 43 , 47 to 79 , 83 to 89 , 91 to 101 , 104 to 116 , 118 to 132 , 135 , 136 , 138 , 140 , 141 , 143 to 155 , 158 to 171 , 173 to 179 , 181 to 198 , 200 to 230 , 232 to 236 , 238 , 245 to 248 , 250 to 272 , 274 to 279 , 281 to 284 , 286 , 287 , 289 to 326 , 328 , 330 to 368 and 370 to 418 agree to , with Commons financial privilege waive in respect of Lords amendment 73 to 75 , 78 , 301 to 326 and 349 to 367 . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 1 , 3 , 13 , 22 , 45 , 46 , 80 , 82 , 133 , 134 , 137 , 139 , 142 , 156 , 157 , 172 , 180 , 199 , 241 , 244 , 249 , 280 and 327 ; that Rachel Maclean , Mr Gagan Mohindra , Paul Holmes , Sara Britcliffe , Matthew Pennycook , Mary Glindon and Ms Anum Qaisar be member of the Committee ; that Rachel Maclean be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Senior Courts of England and Wales that the draft Courts ( Prescribed Recordings ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 17 July , be approve . question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 ( Revocation and Sunset Disapplication ) Regulations 2023 which be lay before this House on 4 September , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . Petitions Petition - Hinckley National Rail Freight Interchange I rise to present a petition that urge the Government to oppose grant development consent for the Hinckley national rail freight interchange , a propose 440 - acre logistic hub in South Leicestershire . in an area with more than its fair share of warehouse , logistic park and new housing , my constituent , as well as many represent by my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , have overwhelmingly speak out against the propose development , include Conservative - lead Blaby District Council , with its excellent councillor , who have do so much to listen to my constituent . I present the petition on behalf of the local resident who have sign it , and the additional 1 , 549 constituent who express support for it in a recent survey . the petition of resident of the constituency of South Leicestershire , declare that the construction of the Hinckley National Rail Freight Interchange go against wish of some constituent in South Leicestershire , far note the potential detrimental impact it may have on the local environment , infrastructure , and surround community . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that the Hinckley National Rail Freight Interchange be not build . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002843 ] petition - park vehicle and emergency I rise to present a petition that I have work on with the pupil and child of Ellel St John ' s Primary School in Galgate regard park vehicle and emergency follow a , frankly , false fire alarm at their school . a fire engine be unable to access the school due to park vehicle . the child have organise this petition with I and collect many signature . the petition state : the petitioner therefore urge the House of Commons to urge the Department to raise this issue with Lancashire County Council in order to prevent this incident from happen again . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Galgate , declare that recently a fire alarm go off at Ellel St John ' s Primary school ; far declare that during the fire alarm , fire service be unable to access Chapel Lane as vehicle be park in a way which do not allow access ; note that on this occasion it be a false alarm but in a real emergency this blockage could have prevent fire service from reach the school in time . the petitioner therefore urge the House of Commons to urge the Department to raise this issue with Lancashire County Council in order to prevent this incident from happen again . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002861 ] Childhood Cancer Outcomes Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) thank you , Sir Roger , for grant I this important Adjournment debate follow September ' s Childhood Cancer Awareness Month . I know that many of we have experience the suffering of a love one with cancer , but there be very few of we who have have to endure the unimaginable pain of see your child suffer with cancer and , bad , lose a child to cancer . yet cancer remain the lead cause of death by disease in child and young people , with 490 cancer death in the UK each year . that be 490 life lose and family forever change . the lack of a bespoke , stand - alone child ' s cancer strategy leave those child with aggressive cancer even more vulnerable . in the short time I have this evening , I want to focus my comment on a little boy , a " tough cookie " from South Shields call Ethan Adams . Ethan attend the dentist with toothache in November 2020 . the dentist treat he for a tooth infection , but Ethan be still not right , so he and his family return to the dentist and Ethan be give some antibiotic . a week later , he develop a lump on the roof of his mouth . the dentist think that this be an abscess because of infection and remove his tooth , but Ethan continue to be unwell . he be refer to an oral specialist at Sunderland Royal Hospital and , after an emergency mri , the family be tell that it be a benign tumour and to expect a follow - up call in a few week from the Royal Victoria Infirmary in Newcastle . the very next day , the family receive an urgent call ask they to head to the accident and emergency department as soon as possible . that be when the world of his mam and dad , Tracey and Mark , crash . they be tell that Ethan have an aggressive cancer and that it be eat up through his skull and press against his brain . Ethan be diagnose with rhabdomyosarcoma , often refer to as RMS . a large tumour be present in his face , push through on to his brain . a large tumour be also find attach to his spine and trace be visible in his lung and bone marrow . his family be give a glimmer of hope when they be tell that Ethan ' s diagnosis be embryonal RMS , the lesser of two evil , and that the medic could shrink the tumour , but they be not sure that they could stop it come back due to the aggressive nature of the cancer . little Ethan have 32 day solid of chemotherapy and radiotherapy . he do not complain once . after go through so much , the family feel hopeful for a good result , but after an MRI they receive the heart - break news that the cancer be bury in layer of his brain and it be terminal . the family make sure that Ethan spend his final day carry out his bucket list of all the place that he want to see and all the thing that he want to do . this very determined independent little boy , even at his weak and when lose his sight , would insist on climb the stair at home instead of be carry . on 5 August 2021 , just a week after his ninth birthday , Ethan pass away at home , with his mam Tracey , his dad Mark , his sister Ellie and his brother Evan . Ethan love Yoda , Sunderland football club and the colour gold . he love entertaining people and be a mischievous and funny kid with a big heart . even when unwell in hospital , he be find share his toy and help another little boy . he be all about friend and family , and talk about be a daddy himself one day . his school , Harton Primary , have name a sport hall after he and have buddy bench in each yard . his grave , which his brother call his forever home , have on it " Ethan , a friend to all " . Ethan leave a hole not just in his family ' s and friend ' life , but in our community . South Shields will never forget he . Ethan ' s family , in an effort to ensure that no one else ever have to go through what Ethan do , have become part of the charity Alice ' s Arc , found in memory of Alice Wakeling , who lose her life to RMS aged seven . the charity have create a community of family through Arcs . Alice ' s Arc , Ethan ' s Arc and all the other Arcs represent child who have have or be fight RMS . the Arcs exist to find a cure , to find kind treatment for RMS and to raise awareness . however , I gently say to the Minister that they should not need to exist ; such charity exist because the state have fail they , and it continue at time to fail these child . as Mark say , it should not be leave to charity to fund research . the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) hold the first ever debate on childhood cancer in this Chamber back in April 2022 . I pay tribute to she and all hon . friend and member who take part in that debate . it be a rare moment of this House come together , regardless of politic , in unanimous agreement that there need to be a child ' s cancer strategy combine early diagnosis , research funding and increase training for GPs and healthcare professional . rise — rise — I will give way to my right hon . friend first . I be a parent who be tell the devastating news that my son have leukaemia , and he subsequently have to have a stem cell transplant . it be devastating news . fortunately , we be lucky , but something I have campaign strongly on be the fact that we address the physical side of the illness , but not the psychological support that those child need , and that they might need in late life as well . we need a more rounded approach . People should not have to go out there and seek that support as something extra ; it should be part of the overall treatment path . I thank my right hon . friend . I know he have speak movingly before in this Chamber about his son Max . he be right that , for those who be lucky enough to recover from cancer , there be always an after - effect ; it remain with they for life and there should be more support . I give way to my other hon . friend . I commend the hon . Lady on bring this debate forward . her constituent should be very proud of their MP and how she have illustrate and put forward the case on behalf of one of her constituent . she have refer to other have big heart , but I think she have a heart the size of an elephant , if that be possible . estimate suggest that around 75 % of child diagnose with cancer survive . however , that statistic have not see an increase in many year . do the hon . Lady agree that the 25 % who do not survive must never be accept as a statistic , but must be fight for with more funding and great research resource , exactly as the right hon . member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) have say , and that those must be put in place as a matter of form and not just grant for one or two year ? I know that the Minister will respond in a positive fashion , and I commend the hon . Lady on what she be do . I thank the hon . gentleman for that very kind intervention . he have pre - empte what I will talk about later in my speech . the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , in respond to the debate last year , say that GPs have access to training and that National Institute for Health and Care Excellence " guideline be try to support GPs " . — [ Official Report , 26 April 2022 ; Vol . 712 , c . 656 . ] however , have access to training be not the same as mandate training , and nice guideline be for all cancer . it be widely know that many sign and symptom of childhood cancer be the same as those for many common childhood illness , and that the type of cancer diagnose in child be different from those see in adult . in short , those guideline be not enough . the Under - Secretary of State also say that , despite some progress in treatment for childhood cancer , for " condition , such as rhabdomyosarcoma , that be not yet the case . research be crucial to how we deal with it in the long term . " — [ Official Report , 26 April 2022 ; Vol . 712 , c . 658 . ] yet no breakdown be available for how much funding be directly link to childhood cancer research , let alone RMS . what we do know be that fund for research of all cancer have drop from £ 132 million in 2018 - 19 to £ 101 million in 2021 - 22 , and that Great Ormond Street hospital have find that , on average , only 2p of every £ 1 spend each year on cancer research go towards dedicated research project for childhood cancer . so here we be , over a year later , and it appear that nothing have improve . the Government ' s change in approach to their cancer plan have not be welcome either . in February 2022 , the Government launch their call for evidence for a standalone 10 - year cancer plan for England , which be intend to be a new vision for how we will lead the world in cancer care . yet in January this year , they announce that cancer would be incorporate into a new major condition strategy , effectively scrap the dedicated 10 - year cancer plan . as Cancer Research UK say : " by bundle in cancer alongside other condition via a short - term strategy , minister will fail to give cancer the due care and attention it require … cancer isn ' t a single disease … in medicine it ' s one of the hard problem to solve and scientific discovery take time … ultimately , beat cancer require a long - term approach . " the Children ' s Cancer and Leukaemia Group and Young live vs Cancer rightly note that this strategy will not give sufficient attention to child with cancer , and be ask the Government to commit to a child and young people ' s 10 - year cancer plan address diagnosis , treatment , patient experience , research , psychosocial support and live beyond cancer . the Royal College of Radiologists , which represent specialist paediatric radiologist and clinical oncologist , have say that after year of under - investment , the workforce be stretch and shortage be cause backlog and delay . access to paediatric radiologist already depend on postcode . in the north - east , there be 0 . 2 consultant per 100 , 000 people , compare with 0 . 7 per 100 , 000 in London . it take seven year to train in this specialty , and as a percentage of specialist be due to retire , I be not sure that the Government ' s workforce plan will sufficiently address the shortfall in those paediatric specialty . international comparison show that the country with the big improvement in cancer survival be those with long - term , adequately fund cancer plan . every single parent who have live in this painful cancer bubble know what work , too : proper training , early diagnosis , research and access to treatment . I commend the hon . Lady for her speech . Ethan really sound like an amazing little boy whose memory will live on , as we have hear tonight . he remind I of a little boy call Adam in my constituency , who will also be forever in our memory after lose his battle to childhood cancer . his mum and dad , Sara and David , be fight not only for what the hon . Lady be fight for , but for financial support for family in the initial week after diagnosis — currently , child have to wait three month to receive disability living allowance . do she not think that the Government should introduce immediate payment for family whose child ' s care need start immediately ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention . my heart go out to her constituent , and I could not agree more with what she suggest . this remarkable little boy have his future take from he , and without a robust and long - term plan from the Government , other child ' s life will be lose to this terrible disease . I know that the Minister be a decent man and that he do care and will want to give some word of comfort to my constituent , but we would like to know from he what progress , if any , have be make since last year ' s debate and how , against the backdrop of decrease funding for research , a dwindle workforce and limited training , he believe cancer outcome for child will improve . as Ethan ' s parent say , " we shouldn ' t be put child through this … child deserve to be invest in , they deserve a future " . I be sure we can all agree that little Ethan definitely do deserve a future . I thank the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) for secure this important debate . I begin by send my sincere support and sympathy to Ethan ' s family and every family involve in the work of Alice ' s Arc . their mission to find a cure and kind treatment for rhabdomyosarcoma be one that I be sure the whole House can support . as the hon . Lady rightly mention , September be Childhood Cancer Awareness Month , and I think I speak for the whole House when I say that our thought be with every family touch by childhood cancer , particularly those who have feel the bitter grief of lose a child . I commend the effort of so many to bring light to the dark of situation and support family in need , include the hon . Lady , who make such a powerful and emotive speech . I also join she in pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) for her tireless effort to improve childhood cancer care . I want to assure the House and all family affect that cancer service for child be an absolute priority for this Government . work alongside the NHS , we have three priority to improve childhood cancer outcome : improve early diagnosis , deliver more research and drive progress in genomic medicine . let I take each one in turn . first , improve early diagnosis will give more child the good chance of beat cancer . the NHS be work to deliver the ambition it set in its long - term plan to diagnose 75 % of cancer at stage 1 and 2 by 2028 . achieve that will mean 55 , 000 more people survive cancer for five year or more . that be why the Government be invest more than £ 2 . 3 billion to transform diagnostic service . thank to that investment , we have open 123 new community diagnostic centre , give million of patient the chance to access quick , more convenient check outside of hospital , and we be on track to open 160 cdc by March 2025 . in this year ' s operational planning guidance , NHS England announce £ 390 million of funding to cancer alliance in each of the next two year to support the operational priority for cancer treatment capacity . that include commission key service in early diagnosis and support system to develop local cancer plan . we be now expand direct access to diagnostic scan across all GP practice , help GPs to recognise cancer symptom , cut waiting time and speed up diagnosis . secondly , as the hon . member for South Shields rightly point out , deliver more research be key to understand the cause of cancer and increase survival rate far . over the past five year , the National Institute for Health and Care Research have invest almost £ 14 million in 38 research project into childhood cancer . alongside Cancer Research UK , health Departments across the UK be jointly fund a network of 18 experimental cancer medicine centre , collectively invest more than £ 35 million between 2017 and 2022 . our world - lead scientist and clinician be drive the discovery , development and testing of new treatment . that include the paediatric network that the National Institute for Health and Care Research co - fund with the Little Princess Trust , which be dedicate to early - phase research on childhood cancer . nhs child ' s cancer service be provide by highly specialist principal treatment centre that manage care through multidisciplinary team across diagnosis , treatment and research , make research breakthrough available to every child . turn to our work to drive progress in genomic medicine , the UK be a world leader in that sector , and cut - edge research already benefit child with cancer . however , the Government be commit to go far : our priority be ensure that all child with cancer get access to genomic medicine . the NHS now offer all child with cancer whole - genome sequencing to enable comprehensive and precise diagnosis , along with personalised treatment . in July this year , the Government announce a multi - year partnership agreement with the pharmaceutical giant BioNTech , which will accelerate that company ' s clinical trial here in the UK and could provide up to 10 , 000 patient with personalised cancer immunotherapy by 2030 . it will work with NHS England ' s new cancer vaccine launchpad to improve access to treatment and trial . this government will continue to support groundbreake genomic medicine to give child with cancer the high - quality personalise treatment they deserve . child with cancer also deserve a supportive experience in hospital , as do their family . that be why I be pleased that NHS England be work with the Starlight Children ' s Foundation charity to review and improve play facility and guidance to hospital trust , and we will learn from the first under - 16 cancer patient experience survey . More than three quarter of child with cancer say they be look after very well by healthcare staff , and almost 90 % of parent or carer rate the care their child receive as eight or more out of 10 . that show what our brilliant cancer workforce do so well , and also where we have more work to do . once again , I thank the hon . member for South Shields for table this vitally important debate . I sense that the Minister be come to the end of his comment . I have listen carefully to he , but he have largely refer to funding and research into cancer overall . he know full well that childhood cancer be distinct from adult cancer , so could he offer we any clarity on how much money go into childhood cancer research , and what the workforce plan be for those specialist work in paediatric cancer ? I be very happy to take both those question . first , in relation to childhood cancer research specifically , my official in the Department be work really closely with the National Institute for Health and Care Research to set up an expert roundtable on childhood cancer research . many trial will be applicable to both adult and child , but by their nature , some will need to be childhood cancer - specific . I welcome that important initiative , which be design to encourage more research into cancer affect child . the Government do not , in effect , commission research directly . bid be make to NIHR ; around £ 1 billion a year be spend directly on research through NIHR , but it be reliant on those bid . that be why it be so important that we get more bid for research into childhood cancer come forward . I thank the Minister for his response and also for his clear understanding of the issue . we appreciate his word . on Saturday past , we have our party conference . there be a number of stall , include for a cancer charity . it have a charter , and at the top of that be a target that 70 % of those who have cancer will survive and heal . can the Minister indicate whether he and his Department have the same ambition to secure 70 % of people with cancer surviving and be cure , especially child ? where I very much agree with my hon . friend be that research be so much at the heart of this matter . the hon . member for South Shields ask specifically how much funding be go directly into childhood cancer research , and my understanding be that over the past five year , the National Institute for Health and Care Research specifically have fund 38 project relate to childhood cancer and have spend just under £ 14 million on research specifically into childhood cancer . she be absolutely right that child ' s cancer risk factor be not very well understand , as this group of cancer be rare and diverse — I think it make up around 1 % of all cancer . that be why the expert roundtable on childhood cancer research be so important , and I will continue to consider with colleague across the House what more we can do on this important matter to get more bid for funding specifically for research into childhood cancer to come forward . a handful of month ago , the Government publish the NHS long - term workforce plan . although it do not go into specific detail on speciality or cancer service , we be work closely with cancer charity and other to determine what the requirement would be go forward . to ensure that we get it right , I would be happy to meet the hon . Lady and any other with an interest in this area to feed into the team look at implementation of the NHS long - term workforce plan . I again thank the hon . Lady for table this vital debate , and I thank all member who have contribute today . family who have be affect by childhood cancer have a right to know that the Government and everyone across this House stand with they . I assure the House that improve childhood cancer outcome be a top priority for this Government and for I personally . I will continue to work with the NHS to ensure fast diagnosis , further and broad research and great access to groundbreake treatment . I assure you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and the House that we will leave no stone unturned in our mission to beat cancer . question put and agree to . House adjourn .