today , the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee have publish a special report on the response time of the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to the Committee ' s report . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for kindly grant time to our Committee for a statement on the special report , and I thank the Committee staff for their support to assist we in produce it . the House have appoint our Committee to scrutinise the Department . the issue that our Committee consider affect the day - to - day life of constituent up and down the country . during this session , we have publish report on topic such as adult social care , housing supply and funding for level up . we have also investigate damp and mould , and reform to the private rented sector — two issue that be raise on a daily basis in correspondence to the Committee and in our mailbag as constituency mp . we have hear evidence from hundred of witness , who have give up their time to share their experience — in some case , harrowing and deeply personal experience — to inform the Committee ' s work . they do so in the expectation that our report and recommendation will influence Government policy and improve people ' s experience of public service . for our scrutiny of Government policy to be fully effective , the Government must consider and respond to our conclusion and recommendation . sometimes the Government will accept our recommendation and sometimes they will not . what be important be that we receive a response from the Government . their response demonstrate that they have consider the view of the Committee and allow the public to see what the Government be do in response to our inquiry . it be a well - establish convention that the Government should respond to all Select Committee report within two month of publication . we understand that that will not always be possible , perhaps during a parliamentary recess or where recommendation be direct to more than one Department . however , delay should be the exception not the rule , and we expect open and proactive communication from Ministers and official on the rare occasion when they expect a Government response to be delay . the experience of our Committee be that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have historically and consistently fail to respond to our Committee report within a reasonable time . during this session , we have publish seven report and not one of the Government ' s response have be publish within the two - month deadline . on average , Government response to our report have be almost six month late . the response to our report on funding for Levelling up , on the Electoral Commission ' s strategy and on exempt accommodation be all late . the response to our report on adult social care be eight month late ; the response to our report on social housing be 10 month late . the response to our report on permit development right be one year and eight month late . we be still wait on overdue response to our report on reform to national planning policy and on reform the private rent sector . our Committee staff spend a disproportionate amount of their time , resource and energy attempt to engage with Ministers and official , through formal and informal channel , to get response . over the year , as Chair of the Committee , I have see response be late , but thing have get progressively bad . in March 2022 , the Chair of the Liaison Committee write to the then Leader of the House to highlight case of " egregiously overdue " Government response . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be identify as a repeat offender when it come to late response , and be responsible for five of the 13 example in that letter . in January this year , we ask the permanent secretary about his Department ' s failure to respond . he say : " we need to make sure that it be an important responsibility of the Department that we respond on time . " we have see little evidence that the Department have take this responsibility more seriously . indeed , in the case of our report on reform in the private rented sector , publish in February , the lack of response have be deeply disappointing . the two - month deadline pass on 9 April . on 3 May , the Secretary of State write to the Committee to explain that the delay response will be publish " alongside the introduction of the Renters Reform Bill " . the Bill be introduce on 2 May , but we have still not receive a response to the report . instead , we have hear that a response will be publish " as soon as possible " . we have make seven separate formal request for the response , as well as many informal request , but we be still wait for the Government ' s response . it be now more than five month overdue . the Committee broadly support the legislation on private rental reform and have make suggestion for its improvement . we now need to hear whether the Government plan to accept these recommendation , and if not , why not . we expect a response in April ; we be promise one in May ; we be now in September and still wait . we be also wait for the second reading of the Bill . we hope to receive the response before Second Reading , although that appear to have be somewhat delay as well . it be imperative that the Government fully consider the Committee ' s conclusion and recommendation in the report , and publish a full response imminently . our special report call for a Government response on the private rent sector in the next two week , along with an explanation as to what have cause the delay . we have request an assessment from the Cabinet Secretary about these matter . finally , we have ask the Liaison Committee to consider a formal review of Government response time , include our experience with this Department . in reality , a Select Committee ' s power and effectiveness be significantly undermine when the Government do not fulfil their responsibility towards it . minister must be accountable to this House . we , as a Committee , treat our responsibility to scrutinise the Department and its Ministers with the utmost seriousness . it be time that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities take its responsibility to our Committee and the House equally seriously . the first step in do so must be to respond to our principal output — our report — in a professional and timely manner . I normally take great pleasure in come to the House to report on the Committee ' s inquiry and finding . it give I no pleasure at all to have to make this statement today . I hope I do not have to make a similar statement in the future .