Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — violence against Women and girl what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . the Government have set out an unprecedented mission to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade , and we have already set out a number of transformative measure to overhaul the police response to these terrible crime . this include announce a £ 13 million investment in the new national centre for violence against woman and girl and public protection , and we will publish the new violence against woman and girl strategy before the summer recess . recent figure show that sexual offence record by Greater Manchester police have quadruple since 2010 , with the Wigan borough see the most domestic abuse call - out . although the domestic abuse protection order trial in Wigan be welcome , more must be do to ensure that woman and girl be safe . do the Minister agree that broad societal action be need , and can she outline how the Government will work across Departments , public service and local authority to address this crisis ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . the Victims Minister and I chair the violence against woman and girl cross - government board , which meet very regularly . it have lead to our violence against woman and girl strategy , which sit within that . it be an expert group that help we on policy . it include local government , the voluntary sector , the police and other member of civil society . she be absolutely right to say that this policy will involve everybody . in November , a report by the child safeguard practice review panel find that a focus on child sexual abuse in the home have be lose in the past 20 year . its key finding be : that there be systematic failing across the board in identify and respond to sign of child sexual abuse ; that there be an over - reliance on the criminal justice system ; and , crucially , that child ' s voice be not be hear . how will the Minister ensure that a focus on in - home child sexual abuse be build into the Government ' s violence against woman and girl strategy , and that it will have child ' s voice at its heart ? we be work with Cabinet Office colleague and other across Government on the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . it be vital to ensure that any strategy include therapeutic and other support for child victim , so that they can take action , and we can ensure justice . will the Minister please give consideration to woman ' s safety in and around railway station ? will she focus on unmanned railway station ? I have many in my constituency . woman travel alone at night should not feel afraid , yet many do . we be commit to the safe street mission , and to halve violence against woman and girl in the next decade . we will continue to work closely with the rail industry , include the British Transport Police , to do that . work be do include a review of the secure station scheme , which ensure that train operator meet a set of standard for security at station ; and we be take measure that support personal safety . my constituent Keith Levell be sexually abuse at school , and be refer to as a number , not a name , during the investigation . he have be hold out for the redress scheme for victim of child sexual abuse , and for a write apology for the life - change experience to which he be subject . on behalf of Keith and many other in his situation , why have the Government reportedly scrap the conservative plan for a redress scheme in England and Wales ? I pay tribute to the hon . Lady ' s constituent , and to the many other who come forward during the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , but what I would like to tell he be that when I come to office , there be absolutely no plan on this issue , other than a sentence to say that something would be do around the redress scheme . I have update the House fully on the iicsa recommendation , and can tell the hon . Lady that the plan be still in train . will the Minister meet I to discuss the issue face by woman with no recourse to public fund who be flee domestic violence ? as they may not be eligible for support with housing , they may struggle to find refuge place . I would appreciate a meeting to discuss this issue . I will absolutely meet the hon . Lady to discuss those issue . the migrant victim of domestic abuse concession apply to all migrant victim , regardless of the type of visa that they be on , and it should be provide that support , but I be more than happy to meet she . the Minister be do sterling work on this issue . she will know that my passion be for Northern Ireland to be utterly in step with the rest of the UK when it come to protect woman and girl against violence . do she agree that Northern Ireland , its authority , organisation and employer should implement the recent Supreme Court ruling , and will she join I in call on the Irish Football Association to be in step with the English and Scottish Football Associations when it come to the protection of woman , on and off the pitch ? I thank the hon . Lady , and absolutely pay tribute to her work on this issue , which I have see directly in Northern Ireland . what I would say , as I be sure anyone would at this Dispatch Box , be that I would always encourage everybody to follow the law in our country in step . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . three year after Baroness Kennedy ' s groundbreake review on tackle misogyny in law , late on Friday , the SNP say that it would scrap its plan Bill to tackle widespread misogyny and hatred against woman . plan to tackle misogynistic harassment , the stir up of hatred , and send threaten or abusive communication to woman , and an aggravated offence of misogyny — all scrap in favour of a water - down amendment to the Hate Crime and Public Order ( Scotland ) Act 2021 . woman across the United Kingdom need action , and reassurance that politician will root out the attitude that lead to hatred against woman in public life . if the SNP will not do it , will this Government act to give woman the support that they need ? the hon . Lady make an impassioned point . it will be a fundamental part of the violence against woman and girl strategy to get to the exact reason why we have end up with an epidemic of violence against woman and girl in all the nation of the United Kingdom , and to root it out . for too long , we have seek to put ever - big plaster on the problem , rather than find the reason for it and prevent it from happen . Government Mission on opportunity : equality what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to promote equality as part of the Government mission entitle " break down barrier to opportunity . " this Government be clear that equality and opportunity be at the heart of our programme of national renewal and economic growth . the opportunity mission be all about create a fairer Britain , give every child the good start in life through our plan for change , building skill for the future and ultimately drive up household income . just last month , we roll out the first 750 new free breakfast club , to give child the good start to their school day and family more choice at work . under the previous Government , there be an increase in inequality and in the attainment gap , and low performance in core subject such as math and science . dyslexic student and student with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in my constituency of Broxtowe have be far disadvantage by delay and misdiagnosis . what step be the Minister take to support young people with dyslexia and ADHD to ensure that they succeed ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that important issue , which I know will be of concern to member across the House . the Government know that all too often , child with special educational need and disability do not have the good educational outcome that we would all want for they . it be really important that we do more to support neurodivergent child and young people , include those with dyslexia and ADHD . that be why we have establish a neuro - divergence taskforce — an expert group that will support we to deliver well mainstream inclusion , while ensure that we have more specialist provision for child who need it . in order to strengthen the evidence base , we have commission work from University College London on the most effective tool and strategy to support child with a wide range of need . my constituent repeatedly raise with I the lack of affordable childcare as a key factor drive the gender pay gap . to give family real choice in those crucial early month , will the Government consider increase paternity pay to 90 % of earning , with a cap for high earner ? the hon . Lady will recognise that this Government have expand worker ’ right , and be make sure that new mum and dad can spend more precious time with their young family . as she say , it be important that high - quality early year education and childcare be available for parent , so that they have good work choice . that be why we have expand childcare provision and more than double the early year pupil premium . we be also roll out new primary - base nursery in school across the country . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . we all want to break down barrier to opportunity . however , it seem that one sizable part of our workforce be be ignore , and that be woman . woman miss work due to endometriosis , ovarian cyst and other complication cost the economy £ 11 billion a year . fix this would save more than double the amount that be to be spend on the unpalatable propose welfare cut for disabled people . do the Minister agree that improve woman ' s health will break down a huge barrier to work , and if so , how be she work with other Departments to fix this ? I agree with my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee , and I pay tribute to she for all her campaign work in the important area of woman ' s health . the Government recognise the terrible impact that these condition can have on woman ' s ability to work and live their life as they should . that be why we be commit to implement a woman ' s health strategy as part of the 10 - year plan , and I know that the Health Secretary be determined to bring down waiting list , which have all too often affected woman , include those with condition such as endometriosis . we be make progress , but there be much more to do . East Sussex Hearing be a charity in Eastbourne that support people with hear disability to break barrier to opportunity through provision of life - change hearing equipment and support . it be keen to work with the local hospital trust and integrate care board to take its service to more people . will the Minister back its effort to engage with the trust and ICB to help bring its charitable service to more people with hear disability in Eastbourne and beyond ? that sound like a sensible and constructive suggestion . I will ensure that the view of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent be share with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care , so that they can provide further advice on how that might well be take forward . Grooming Gangs what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help protect girl from sex - base violence by groom gang . the Government be take unprecedented action to improve the response to these heinous crime , so that we get more perpetrator behind bar and get justice for victim and survivor . we be increase investment in the taskforce , and every police force have be ask to review case that be close with no further action take . arrest be increase . we be expand victim ' right to review . crucially , we be introduce the new , long - overdue mandatory reporting duty , and the new statutory aggravating factor for groom offence . in previous Parliaments , the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee hold inquiry on Rochdale , Rotherham and other town where sex grooming be take place . we now know that this be a nationwide problem . we hear from Baroness Casey — then Dame Louise Casey — that there be a problem with pakistani man and their culture , and that the victim be predominantly white girl in council care . we have evidence that council staff , councillor , social worker and possibly the police have be complicit , or have at least turn a blind eye to the issue , so local inquiry will not be good enough . will the Minister call for a national , judge - lead inquiry , in which witness be require to give evidence under oath , so that those who turn a blind eye can be bring to justice ? to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , to be clear , national statutory inquiry do not send anyone to prison . he rightly mention Baroness Casey and her work in Rotherham , and other ' work in Rochdale . the reason why we know about some of the terrible behaviour be because of the brilliant local inquiry undertake in those town . Louise Casey be undertake a national audit that will report shortly . I call the shadow Minister . despite what the Prime Minister say , speak out for rape victim be not jump on a far - right bandwagon . yesterday , it be report that no . 10 ' s interim spokesperson say it be " obviously disappointing " to see people " weaponise " rape gang for " political point scoring " . how do that square with the harrowing personal testimony from Jade , Chantelle , Scarlett , Erin and Steph in Anna Hall ' s Channel 4 documentary air last week , where concern question continue to arise about council , police , school , social worker and child ' s home ? it be report that in up to 50 community , vulnerable girl who be under age — exploit child — be unbelievably label as promiscuous or child prostitute . the hon . Lady point out the terrible thing that have go on historically , and that continue to be a concern across our country . that be exactly why the Government be invest in the taskforce , which be work across the country with police force to ensure that people can be arrest and girl can be keep safe . arrest have go up . absolutely everybody think this issue be terrible . I remind the hon . Lady that she gladly serve as Women and Equalities Minister under a Prime Minister who say that look into these historical case be " spaffe money up the wall . " as a child , Jade get a criminal record during her abuse and exploitation , and now she can not attend her child ' s school trip . Chantelle rightly say , " we be not the problem . the man be the problem . " although there be plenty of good woman on the Front Bench , I have to ask : be this Government simply more interested in protect their own than stay true to their manifesto pledge ? that pledge say , " we will use every … tool to target perpetrator " . yet Labour be turn its back on that once again ; you can hear it . the Leader of the House call this " dog whistle " politic on national radio . why will the Minister and her Front - Bench colleague not commit to deliver a proper , national , statutory public inquiry , and finally put victim first ? I will absolutely protect my own in this . my own be the woman in our country , who , for the last 14 year , have see no effort make . People say terrible thing , and the Leader of the House be right to apologise . I wonder how many of those on the Opposition Front Bench ask the former Prime Minister to apologise for say that look into the life of the girl we be talk about , through a statutory inquiry that have already happen , be spaffe money up the wall . where be the outrage ? access to Venture Capital : woman what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on access to venture capital for woman . a £ 250 billion boost could be add to the UK economy if woman be give the same opportunity as man to start and scale their business . that be why it be a priority for this Government to increase access to capital for woman - lead business , and to continue to work , as the Chancellor have also outline , with the Women ' s Business Council and the invest in woman taskforce , and on support the FTSE Women Leaders programme . we have back the invest in woman taskforce , which launch an initial £ 255 million fund , and there be a £ 50 million commitment from the British Business Bank to investment via female investor in woman - lead business . for every £ 1 of equity funding , only 2p go to fully female - fund business — a figure that have barely shift in recent year . close that gap could unlock up to £ 250 billion for the UK economy . will the Minister outline what far step the Department will take in collaboration with the Treasury and the Department for Business and Trade to address that persistent inequality and support female entrepreneur in scale their business ? my hon . friend be right ; for too long , innovative woman - lead start - up have be hold back due to a lack of finance , with the proportion of equity capital investment go to all female - found firm stick at around 2 % in the UK for the last decade . alongside the invest in woman taskforce , the Department for Business and Trade be lead on the investing in woman code , and work with finance provider to increase access to finance , resource and network for woman - lead business . I want to see we use the talent of all business leader to support female entrepreneur , which be right not just for woman but for the whole economy . in my constituency of Strangford , many woman have start their own business , but there have be a problem in get access to the finance to make that happen . Venture capital will make that happen . to ensure that lady and woman have the same opportunity as man — just because they be a different sex , do not mean that they be any less able to do the job — will the Minister ensure that venture capital will be available in Northern Ireland , for lady and woman in Strangford and in Northern Ireland ? the funding will be available to woman - lead business in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . it be right that we continue to support the work of the Women ' s Business Council and other , and look at all we can do to support woman in business , and those who be come forward to start their own enterprise . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . the Government be take decisive action to deliver our plan to make work pay , put more money back into people ' s pocket . the Office for Equality and Opportunity recently launch a public consultation on mandatory ethnicity and disability pay gap reporting , and a call for evidence on other measure to improve security at work for everyone and tackle unequal pay . we will work in partnership with business to deliver this Government ' s plan for change . many constituent have write to I to express their concern on the recent UK Supreme Court ruling relate to the legal definition of a woman . it have leave the already vulnerable member of the trans community feel uncertain about how they will be able to go about their day - to - day life . what step be the Minister take to work with her colleague in other Departments to provide further guidance and clarity on what the judgment mean in practice ? you will know , Mr Speaker , that I make a statement to the House set out the Government ' s position where we welcome the clarity of the Supreme Court ruling . I should also stress that , of course , everyone within our country deserve to be treat with dignity , respect and compassion , and tran people continue to enjoy protection from harassment and discrimination under the law . we be work with the Equality and Human Rights Commission on its code of practice , which it will set out in due course follow consultation . my right hon . friend will know of the grow concern around social medium algorithm increasingly promote misogynistic and harmful content to child , particularly use the hook of dangerous online influencer . what step be she take work with Cabinet colleague to protect young people from such destructive influence ? my hon . friend raise a concern share by many across the House , and it be crucial that we root out misogyny , whether it be online or offline . I be work with colleague across Government to tackle those dangerous attitude . for example , through the Department for Education , we be look at bring forward update relationship , health and sex education guidance to ensure that it prevent and tackle misogyny . alongside that , I know the Science , Innovation and Technology Secretary be determined to go far and fast to ensure that child be protect online . I call the shadow Minister . I be a great believer in Britain be one of the great meritocracy in the world , where — at least in our party — people can rise to the very top , irrespective of race , religion or gender . the Government ' s consultation on reform equality law be a litany of activist demand and bureaucratic burden , with no proof that any of the measure would reduce inequality . why be the Government so determine to put people into box on the basis of race , instead of promote equality of opportunity for all ? this Labour Government be determined to break the link between background and success , so that where someone be from do not determine what they can go on to achieve and so everyone have the chance to get as far as their hard work and talent will take they . it be important that we tackle the unacceptable gap we see around access to employment and pay for people from minority ethnic community and disabled people , too . that be why we be consult on this , work with business , and we want to get this right . the Tories shamefully leave the gender pay gap persistently high . do the Secretary of State agree that Labour ' s childcare expansion , free breakfast club and new nursery will drive up woman ' s income and work choice , who be disproportionately more affected by care responsibility ? I agree with my hon . friend . this Labour Government be determined to ensure that all woman have choice when it come to balance work and family life . that be why we be expand access to childcare through new free breakfast club and new primary - base nursery , and I be delighted that my hon . friend ' s constituent will benefit from one of those new free breakfast club . perpetrator hang around school , malicious contact with customer , and rat poison be send to my constituent ’ home be all frightening experience face by victim of domestic abuse , but police response be inconsistent , even when perpetrator be on bail . what be the Secretary of State do to work with other Departments to ensure that everyone in the system , from call handler to Crown Prosecution Service worker , have training on form of non - violent abuse to ensure that child and woman be protect ? the hon . Lady raise some incredibly important point and shine a light on the experience of victim in her constituency . this Government be determined to halve violence against woman and girl . that be why , as my hon . friend the Minister for Safeguarding and violence against Women and girl set out early , we be take a range of action right across Government . we be of course always happy to consider further area where action be need , so that all woman and girl be able to live free from abuse and intimidation within our society . this week we celebrate the International Day of Midwives . midwife be an essential part of end inequity in maternal health , deliver lifesave community - base care . will the Minister please commit to work with the Minister for Health to ensure that our 10 - year health strategy and the NHS workforce plan put adequate resource into the overstretch maternity unit in many , often deprive , part of our country ? yes , I be happy to give my hon . friend that commitment . I know how seriously the Health Secretary take this issue , because he know , as I do , that too many woman have be fail by poor maternal care and during traumatic experience , and that all woman deserve safe , compassionate care in those often quite difficult time that they can experience . that be why we be commit to training thousand more midwife and , through our NHS 10 - year plan , we will ensure that there be equitable access right across the country for all woman as they experience pregnancy and childbirth . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 7 May . rise tension between India and Pakistan will be of serious concern for many across Britain . we be engage urgently with both country as well as other international partner , encourage dialogue , de - escalation and the protection of civilian . Britain will fall silent tomorrow to mark the anniversary of VE Day . it be a day to remember our great generation , whose courage and selflessness win a victory over tyranny and evil . past and present , the service of our armed force defend our freedom , protect the value that we stand for , and make this country so proud . the landmark deal we have secure with India be a huge win for work people in this country . after year of negotiation , this Government have deliver in month , slash tariff , boost wage and unleash opportunity for UK business . it be the big trade deal the UK have deliver since we leave the EU . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . in 2018 my constituent , Richard Wellington , be diagnose with a glioblastoma and give just 12 month to live . against the odd , he be still with we today . he know his time be limited , however , and be determined to leave a legacy by improve brain cancer treatment for other . his courage be inspiring and he show extraordinary resilience , but patient with brain tumour fall through the crack in our healthcare system under the Conservatives , and this must end . will the Prime Minister set out how Labour will speed up cancer diagnosis and improve treatment time for brain tumour patient such as Richard as we go far with our plan for change ? I send my good wish and , I be sure , those of the House to Richard and to every family live with cancer for their courage and fortitude . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for her work to raise awareness of the devastating impact of brain cancer . I be really proud that our plan for change have already deliver fast diagnosis for more than 80 , 000 cancer patient . we be roll out Cancer 360 , which have groundbreake new technology that will slash treatment delay across the NHS , as well as invest in more scanner , surgical hub and radiotherapy machine . it be important work that be only happen because of our decision to make a record investment in the NHS , oppose by every other party . I call the Leader of the Opposition . can I echo the Prime Minister ' s comment ? it be an honour to meet veteran at the VE Day parade on Monday and to commemorate the sacrifice of that generation . I look forward to mark VE day at Westminster Abbey tomorrow . do the Prime Minister now admit that he be wrong to remove the winter fuel payment from million of pensioner ? the no . 1 job of this Government be to put our finance back in order after the last Government lose control and to deal with the £ 22 billion black hole that they leave . because of our action , we have stabilise the economy , invest record amount in the NHS , make a payment out to the 3 million lowest pay , and of course we be commit to the triple lock , which improve pension by £ 470 last year . because of the work that we have do , we be a country that country such as India want to do deal with , because of the message and the work that we have do . the only black hole be the one the Prime Minister be dig . this issue affect some of the poor and most vulnerable pensioner . his Mayor in Doncaster say it be wrong ; his First Minister in Wales say it be wrong ; even his own mps be say it be wrong . he have refuse to listen to I on this , so will he at least listen to his own party and change course ? let I spell this out . all the opposition party would take this country back to where it be a few year ago : break public finance , interest rate through the roof , and NHS waiting list at an all - time high . no other party in this House be prepared to say how they would put the finance straight ; no other party be say how they would invest in our NHS and public service ; no other party be focus on the long - term prosperity of Britain . no one on the Labour Benches be deny how big be the challenge that we face , but no one on the opposition Benches be even prepared to take those challenge on . we would not balance it on the back of pensioner . pensioner be poor and cold because of his decision . all the while , energy have get more expensive for everyone . why have the Prime Minister break his promise to cut energy bill by £ 300 ? the way to bring energy bill down for good be to deliver cheap , clean , home - grow energy . in the meantime , we have extend the warm home discount to 6 million household — one in five family — and that be £ 150 off their bill next winter . what will not bring energy bill down be the Leader of the Opposition ' s policy , leave we hooked on fossil fuel and at the mercy of dictator like Putin . I will tell you what else will not bring bill down : the Conservatives block every piece of infrastructure that be need in their own backyard . they balance the book and crash the economy on the back of million of work people in this country — that be why those people deliver the verdict that they do at the last general election . the Prime Minister talk about clean energy . we have the second high amount of renewable on the grid in Europe , and yet we still have the high energy bill . this be not about clean energy . the Prime Minister have break another promise . he will not admit it , but be the truth not that he can not cut energy bill because of his net zero policy ? energy bill base on fossil fuel have fluctuate massively in the last three year because we be expose to the international market . the only way to get bill down be to go to renewable energy , which be something that the Leader of the opposition use to believe in . in the word of the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) , the shift to net zero " must now happen as a matter of urgency . it be no long simply an environmental issue — energy independence should be view as part of our national security . " he must have our line , Mr Speaker . what about the Leader of the opposition herself ? this be what she say : " we believe that green trade and investment will be the future - proof force that will help we create a well tomorrow " . she go on to say " it ' s long - term investment in nuclear and renewable that will reduce our dependence on fossil fuel and keep down consumer cost . " she have a reputation , apparently , for straight talk : she be right then , wasn ' t she ? this approach to net zero be " irrational " ; it be " doom to fail " . those aren ' t my word ; they be Tony Blair ' s . if the Prime Minister want to throw word about , he should speak to he . the truth be that the Prime Minister be on another planet . his net zero plan mean ever more expensive energy . across this country , job be disappear . last week , a ceramics factory in Stoke close because of energy cost . this morning , 250 more job loss have be announce in the North sea , and yet the amount of gas the UK be import be double , so why be he shut down the North sea rather than get our oil and gas out of the ground and make energy cheap ? as I have say many time , oil and gas will be part of the mix for many decade to come , but net zero be an opportunity to be seize . we have have over £ 43 billion invest in clean energy since July of last year , which be good for the economy , for business , for job , for apprentice and for growth . the global race be on for the job of the future , and I believe Britain can win that race . I do not think that the Leader of the opposition be yet a climate denier , but she be a climate defeatist : she do not believe in Britain ' s ability to win the race for our economy , business and job . they have never back Britain , and there be nothing patriotic about that . the Prime Minister have get no answer . he could not even bring himself to say something to the 250 people who find out this morning that they have lose their job . the fact be that pensioner be poor and people be be lay off . from winter fuel to net zero , his energy policy be a disaster , and everyone know it . we know it , the public know it , the union know it , his mp know it , and even Tony Blair know it . the Prime Minister ' s only answer be to go far and fast in the wrong direction . why should we all suffer because he will not admit he have get this wrong ? of course , nobody want to see job loss , but the Leader of the Opposition should address her comment to the ten of thousand of man and woman in this country who be work on renewable for the future of our country , and tell they that she do not want they . that be anti - growth , anti - job and anti - work people . every week , she come along to talk the country down and carp from the sideline ; she can not even bring herself to celebrate the deal we have do with India . the Conservatives spend eight year fiddle around and get absolutely nothing . we have deliver the good deal since we leave the EU — the most ambitious deal for India — which will be measure in billion of pound into our economy and thousand of job in this country . the Leader of the opposition should be welcome that . the UK automotive sector face major challenge , and trump ' s tariff be the late crisis to hit the industry . investment and job be now on the line , from Mini to McLaren , Aston Martin , Jaguar Land Rover and many other . will the Prime Minister continue to make those company ' case in his talk with the US regime and remain a champion for this vital sector , unlike the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who believe that Jaguar deserve to go bust ? my hon . friend make a very good point . we be back british car company such as JLR , and our India trade deal will see tariff slash for car sale , which be good for british job . the criticism of the double taxation be incoherent nonsense . it be a benefit to work people ; it be in the agreement that we already have with 50 other country . if the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) or the Leader of the opposition be seriously suggest that they be go to tear up agreement with 50 other country , create a massive hole in our economy , they should get up and say so . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . as we celebrate 80 year since Britain lead our ally to victory over fascism , I pay tribute on behalf of the Liberal Democrats to all those who struggle and sacrifice so much for our freedom today . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about the conflict in Kashmir and , with he , urge restraint and de - escalation on both side . among the message that voter send to Ministers last week , one stand out : bring back the winter fuel payment for million of struggle pensioner . People will therefore be disappoint that the Prime Minister fail to do so today . he say that he want to " go far and fast " to clean up the mess leave by the Conservatives , but on social care , which be so crucial for our NHS , he be go slow and slow . not only will the Casey commission take three year , we learn on Friday that the Government plan to take an extra seven year to implement it — it will not be implement until 2036 . will the Prime Minister rip up that timetable , make sure that he do not repeat the mess make by the Conservatives , and get on with fix social care this year ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , we be take this in two stage . we be already take measure to increase support for social care — quite right too — while do the long work to reform it and make sure we put a system in place . however , I say to the right hon . Gentleman once again that he come to the Chamber every week say that we should spend more money , while at the same time say that he do not want to pay for any of the measure to raise that money . that be nonsense . I be disappoint by that answer , and I will keep come back to hold the Prime Minister to account . People also want a Government who will stand up for our country against Donald Trump . first , he come for our steelworker and our car maker with his outrageous tariff . now , Donald Trump be come for our world - lead british film industry . will the Prime Minister work with our ally in Europe and the Commonwealth and make it clear to President Trump that if he pick a fight with James Bond , Bridget Jones and Paddington Bear , he will lose ? the right hon . Gentleman really should listen to the sector that he think he be champion . they do not want we to abandon the work we be do to try to get an agreement with America ; they want that agreement to reduce tariff . that be the sensible , pragmatic way to protect our national interest . it be not sensible or pragmatic to choose between the US and the EU , to abandon the work we be do on trade with the US and to leave the tariff exactly where they be . that be the most damaging thing that could possibly be do . I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . for young people in Ipswich , there be no shortage of ambition , just a need for great opportunity . that be why last autumn I be proud to sign an agreement with Sizewell C to guarantee 500 job for people in my town , alongside additional investment for Suffolk New college ' s course on welding , engineering and fabrication , so that kid in my town can access the well - pay , secure , skilled job on offer . may I therefore urge the Prime Minister to support a final investment decision for Sizewell C , not just for our country ' s energy security , but for the once - in - a - generation opportunity for young people in Ipswich and Suffolk ? it be good to see a local Labour MP fighting for job in his constituency and achieve excellent result . we will make our final investment decision at the spending review . it be something that the Conservatives fail to deliver in 14 year . we be unashamedly pro - nuclear , pro - growth and pro - job . that be why we be make it easy to build small modular reactor and scrap absurd rule that leave vital project tangle up in needless paperwork . we be do the work that they fail to do in 14 year . prior to the election , the Prime Minister promise that energy bill would come down ; they continue to rise . he promise that he would save the refinery at Grangemouth ; it be shut . he promise that he would unleash a generation of secure energy job in my city of Aberdeen . today , Harbour Energy — the large independent player in the North sea — have announce that it be about to shed 25 % of its workforce . that be 250 job in my constituency go in the blink of his eye . do you know who they blame , Mr Speaker ? they blame the policy of theLabour party . may I ask the Prime Minister — in fact , may I invite he to come to Aberdeen and explain to my constituent why he be willing to move heaven and earth to save job in Scunthorpe , while destroy job in Scotland ? nobody want to see job loss , but I remind the right hon . member that before we come into office 10 month ago , the Scottish National party Government in Holyrood , alongside the Conservative Government , do absolutely nothing for project such as Grangemouth . we have commit £ 200 million to secure the future of the site ; we have deliver a £ 100 million deal ; and we be help with the training guarantee that be need . like his First Minister , the right hon . Gentleman will raise anything to distract from the SNP ' s disastrous record , with almost one in six scot stick on an NHS waiting list , poor standard and violence in scottish school , and more than £ 1 billion cut from local government . we give the Scottish Government the big settlement since devolution . they have be in power for nearly two decade ; they have absolutely nowhere to hide their appalling record . I thank the Prime Minister for recently visit the now royal port of Barrow in my constituency to lay the keel for the new Dreadnought - class submarine . he will have see how proud we be to build our nuclear deterrent , which keep we safe . as we move forward with our plan for change , do he agree that Barrow and Furness could provide a blueprint for the whole country , with defence investment create job , growth and prosperity in community across the UK ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the royal port of Barrow provide a model for how defence can be a catalyst for skilled , well - pay job throughout the United Kingdom . I be proud and humble to be able to thank the crew of the Vanguard submarine that be return home after month away , with four of those on board return to their newborn child . that be the change that will come from our spending 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , for the first time since the last Labour Government . extra investment in Barrow have be make possible by my hon . friend and this government ; those in the conservative party make promise , but , as usual , they never , ever set the money aside . ahead of the 80th anniversary of VE Day , may I thank the Prime Minister for his Government ' s recognition of the highly dangerous and clandestine work of the 1 , 746 pilot and navigator who form the RAF ' s photographic reconnaissance squadron , and the 635 Buckinghamshire - base photographic interpreter — often forget — whose service will be mark with a national memorial near the Churchill war room ? they have a death rate of nearly 50 % and a life expectancy of only two and a half month , but they nevertheless capture 26 million image of enemy operation , provide daily , up - to - date intelligence , via the interpreter ' analysis , to the strategist in the Cabinet war room , for all our armed force . may I ask the Prime Minister to join I when that national memorial be unveil so that we can pay our respect to the like of the late Captain Wilfred Bruce Tilley DFC , of Axbridge in my constituency , and the other amazing young man and woman whose work be so critical to the safety of million of people in this country and elsewhere ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that very important issue . I be sure that member on both side of the House would support a memorial to the service and sacrifice of those veteran . the bravery and service of individual such as Captain Tilley , and other in the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit and the photographic interpretation unit , save the life of many serviceman and servicewoman and , of course , civilian , and — as the hon . Lady rightly point out — the cost be the many casualty in those unit . as we mark the 80th anniversary of VE Day , we will remember those who help to secure our great victory . the London borough of Hackney spend £ 54 million a year , and rise , on temporary accommodation . not only be that cost the taxpayer dear , but it be wrench family apart . community be be rent asunder , school be close , and family be live in hostel in overcrowded room or in far - fling area outside London . I welcome our pledge to build 1 . 5 million new home , but will the Prime Minister reassure my constituent that social housing be a priority for he ? my hon . friend be right : family be desperate for the security of their own home , and we be deliver the big boost to affordable and social housing in a generation , back by £ 2 billion of additional investment . that , and our reform , will fulfil our ambition to build 88 , 000 new home in area across London , include my hon . friend ' s constituency . at the same time , we be tackle the root cause of homelessness , and , of course , scrap section 21 eviction . under the Conservatives , inequality have surge . More than 14 million people — include 2 , 000 child in my constituency — now live in poverty , while the rich 1 % see their income soar . of the develop country , our be now the ninth most unequal . will the Prime Minister listen to the Liberal Democrats , the public and many of his own Back Benchers and commit himself to reverse change involve , for instance , the personal independence payment , the winter fuel allowance and the two - child benefit cap , and will he introduce clear poverty reduction target to ensure that any economic growth benefit those who need it most ? the hon . Lady be right to mention the appalling record of the last Government , which see 900 , 000 more child in poverty . we be already deliver 750 free breakfast club and boost the minimum wage for more than 3 million people — the lowest - pay worker in our country — and the child poverty taskforce be look at every lever that can be pull . I be proud of the last Labour Government ' s record on tackle poverty , and we will continue to do that in this government . last month ' s datum show that NHS waiting list in Wales fall for three month in a row . in England , the waiting list have fall for six month in a row . in Scotland , after nearly 20 year in charge , the SNP Government have leave our NHS on its knee . instead , remarkable act of charity from rock legend Rod Stewart be help people to get the care they need . do the Prime Minister agree that Scotland need a new direction so that my constituent in Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock do not rely on charity for their healthcare ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . the contrast , as she point out , be stark . in England and Wales , waiting list be fall , with over 3 million extra appointment already deliver . in Scotland , the SNP Government have just introduce their fifth NHS recovery plan in just four year . they have have the big Budget settlement since devolution and nearly two decade in power . they still have no idea how to fix the NHS , and they have run out of excuse . VE Day mark the end of horror in Europe . afterwards , our post - war expansion of welfare benefit be something truly principle from Labour . give the real fear feel by disabled people in Brighton Pavilion and across the nation , do the Prime Minister agree that now be the time to be principle again and restore their support , not make his mps vote to restrict it ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the record of the post - war Labour Government — a great reform government . the principle remain the same : those who need support and protection should have that support and protection , those who can be support and help into work should be help and support into work — something that be not happen under the system as it be — and those who can work should work . Crewe in my constituency have a proud rail heritage , with Crewe station boasting unrivalle 360 ° connectivity to all four corner of our country . when the Conservative Government take the decision to cancel the second leg of HS2 , it be a great betrayal of my constituent , take a sledgehammer to our town ' s prospect for regeneration and prosperity . will the Prime Minister look kindly upon proposal to extend high Speed rail north of Birmingham , which would utilise Crewe ' s unique strategic value to the rail network and bring opportunity and prosperity to the north of England ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of strong and more reliable rail connection in improve journey and drive economic growth . the conservative party utterly fail to grip delivery on HS2 . cost go through the roof , and timeline be shred . there be false promise and a total failure . we be review the position that we inherit , and we be commit to improve rail connectivity across the north . we have already announce £ 450 million extra for the key trans - Pennine route upgrade , which will slash journey time and deliver growth and more reliable modern service for passenger . this week , the israeli Government approve a plan to officially conquer Gaza . just yesterday , Minister Smotrich vow that Gaza will be " entirely destroy " and that the Palestinians will have to " leave in great number to third country . " this follow the extermination of over 50 , 000 palestinian man , woman and child , and the simultaneous expansion of illegal settlement in the west bank — something I witness with my own eye last week . will the Prime Minister now finally acknowledge that ethnic cleansing be under way and end all UK military co - operation with Israel , especially the illegal provision of F - 35 fighter jet part , or will he risk make Britain complicit in war crime and be the Prime Minister to see Britain answer at the Hague for its role in this atrocity ? Most of what the hon . Gentleman say be simply not right , but I want to address the position in Gaza and the west bank , because it be increasingly intolerable . I be deeply concerned , particularly with the lack of aid get in and the impact that that be have on hundred of thousand of individual . that concern be something I recently reaffirm to the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority , where I assert again that a two - state solution be the only viable approach for peace . our focus be on deliver peace for Palestinians and Israelis , return to the ceasefire , get the hostage out , and get in the humanitarian aid that be desperately need in great number and more quickly . as a result of a relationship breakdown , my constituent Martin and his three child end up homeless . they have go from live in a hotel to temporary accommodation . Martin feel abandon because Glasgow city council have not be in contact for month . the month of uncertainty have disrupt all their life , but Martin be especially worried about the impact on his child ' s education . like any father , he want stability for his family , but the lack of social housing mean they be stick in complete limbo . do the Prime Minister agree with I that every child , no matter where they live , deserve a safe home and access to a good education , and that in every part of the UK we need to build more social housing in order to end homelessness ? I be deeply sorry to hear about Martin ' s case , and I absolutely agree with my hon . friend ' s comment about every family deserve a safe and a secure home . in England , that be why we be invest an additional £ 2 billion to help deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation . but in Scotland it be , frankly , disgraceful that over 10 , 000 child have no fixed home to call their own after nearly 20 year of an SNP Government . that be the high level ever and show why Scotland desperately need a new direction . last week I be talk to Jason , a pub landlord , and he tell I that he have hear a rumour about the Prime Minister . [ " Ooh ! " ] not that one , not that one . he have hear that there be a reason why the Prime Minister hate Britain ' s pub . landlord such as Jason be be batter by Labour ' s job tax and the slashing of small business rate relief , mean that as many as half of Britain ' s pub could be close by 2030 . why do he hate Britain ' s pub , and if he do not , why be he tax they into extinction ? nobody like pub well than I , and we support they . this be the same old nonsense : the opposition say they do not want the rise in national insurance contribution , but they do not have the courage to say they would reverse it , because they know that if they do say that , they would be unable to say where the money be come from . that be how we get into the problem in the first place . few thing be more harrowing than a parent ' s desperate and repeat attempt to access the mental health support their child need . organisation such as Smile , a counselling service support young people in my constituency , be step into the breach while young people languish on waiting list without the help they need . over the past decade , Smile have be a lifeline for thousand . will the Prime Minister join I in wish Declan and the team at Smile a very happy 10th birthday , and thank they for their invaluable work in support our young people and family ? I join my hon . friend and commend all the staff at Smile for their vital work . far too many young people be leave without the support they need , and that be why we be recruit an additional 8 , 500 mental health worker , provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school and funding talk therapy across the country to bring down waiting time and get people the care they need . with the so - call EU - UK reset summit less than two week away , will the Prime Minister reassure the House that he will not hand over any british sovereign power , particularly the hard - win control over our UK fishing water , in backroom deal with Brussels ? as the hon . member know , we have commit to reset the relationship with the EU . we think there be a well deal that can be have . I be not go to provide a running commentary . what I can say be this : we will act only , as we always do , in the national interest . we have secure a very good deal with India , we be talk to the US and we be go for a reset with the EU to boost our economy . as you know , Mr Speaker , I be alarm by news that the Press Association , which assiduously cover our exchange here , may cut back its dawn - to - dusk coverage through redundancy . hansard faithfully record our word , but it be reporter in the Press Gallery who bear witness to the human drama here , and no amount of AI will replace the human eye in the Press Gallery . will the Prime Minister join I and my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) in call on the newspaper and medium outlet that fund the Press Association to hold the front page and reconsider these rash move ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . we enjoy a free press and independent journalism in this country . across the world , journalist risk their life , and lose their life , do what they do good : independently pursue the truth . on many occasion I have be at award ceremony , usually on a yearly basis , where the name of those journalist who have lose either their life or their freedom be read out , and it be always a humbling reminder of the really important work that they do . as you know , Mr Speaker , Parliament have ban the charging of electric vehicle in its underground car park because of safety concern . yet local authority around the country often feel powerless to stop the construction of battery energy storage system near people ' s home and near our river and canal , despite three fire already this year . will the Prime Minister look again at his Planning and Infrastructure Bill to make it easy , rather than hard , for local community to have a meaningful say ? I be really proud that on planning and infrastructure we be take the action that have not be take for year to drive our economy , and I remind the hon . Gentleman that that be signal by the Office for Budget Responsibility as the single big driver of growth over the come year . United States Film Tariff 12 . 36 pm ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Minister if he will make a statement on the potential implication for the UK film industry of the United States ' s propose 100 % tariff on foreign - produce film . as the House will be aware , President Trump announce on Sunday that he have authorise the Department of Commerce to initiate tariff on all movie produce in foreign land . he have make other comment since . this be a very fluid situation and we will continue to take a calm and steady approach . I spend most of Monday talk to UK and US film maker and the general secretary of Bectu , among other , and I can tell the House that we be already in active discussion with the top of the US Administration on this subject . we be work hard to establish what might be propose , if anything , and to make sure our world - beat creative industry be protect . we be absolutely committed to ensure that the film industry can continue to thrive and create good job right across the UK . UK film and high - end television generate production spend of £ 5 . 6 billion in 2024 , and we want to work with our domestic industry and international partner to continue to build on that success . we be absolutely clear that the deep tie between the US and UK film industry provide mutual benefit to both country . production be , by their very nature , international partnership , which be often develop and create across different country and location . indeed , US movie be often multinational precisely because US movie earn far more overseas than they do domestically in the United States . the UK and the US both benefit when the like of " Star Wars " and " Mission Impossible " be film in the UK , just as we both benefit from the close work relationship between our producer , talent and crew . our country have a long history of work together to drive the growth and creative success of our film and television sector . from Cary Grant to Hugh Grant , and from Alfred Hitchcock to Christopher Nolan , british talent have often be at the forefront of the US sector , and I be absolutely sure this will continue in the year ahead . I be once tell by a film producer , " never judge a film by the first 10 minute . " I think we can say the same of this . I thank the Minister for his answer . as he rightly say , we learn over the weekend that the President ' s Administration intend to impose a 100 % tariff on all film produce outside the US . it be understand that he have direct the US Government to begin implement the policy immediately . I welcome the fact that the Minister recognise the film industry in this country as a jewel in our crown of world - lead creative industry . I also point out that the sector alone be worth £ 1 . 96 billion here , and support 195 , 000 job up and down the country . it show off our great british culture and value , the talent we have , and some of the most amazing setting for so many film of different genre . I be glad that the Government be work to ensure that all be do to give confidence to our director , actor , screenwriter and producer that they be think about they , because for both independent film maker and major studio this action could result in cancel project , lose investment and a significant decline in UK film export , which be especially hard give that they be still recover from the covid pandemic . but I have to say that it be disappoint the Government fail to start the negotiation with President Trump ' s team for five month after the election and fire Britain ' s top trade negotiator . it be difficult not to wonder whether a different approach could have lead to a different outcome . none the less , the priority be to protect our film industry , so what assessment have the Minister make of the potential impact on the UK film sector ? what immediate step be the Government take to engage with the US and ensure that the investment in UK facility by many US business , which would be affect , be highlight ? what contingency plan have he prepare in the event that no exemption can be secure ? finally , what assessment have the Government make of the potential drastic cut in BBC Studios ' profit from sale to the US market , and what impact could that have on the licence fee ? first , may I , on a co - operative note , say that one reason we have a very strong film and high - end television sector in the UK be the joint policy , adopt across several year by both Conservative and Labour Administrations , to ensure we have very competitive tax credit . I pay tribute to the work do by the previous Government , which we be able to enhance when we bring in two new tariff — I mean two new tax credit — in the Budget just before Christmas . no , we be not in favour of bring in tariff . I think I be right in say that in 1947 the Labour Government do bring in tariff on US film , because we think too many US film be be show in british cinema . that strategy do not go very well : the Americans simply ban the export of US film and we end up watch " Ben Hur " repeatedly in every cinema , as well as a film call " Hellzapoppin ' " which I do not think anybody have watch since . however , the successful bit of what we do in 1947 and 1948 be that we invest in the british film production system , which lead to film such as " Hamlet " and " Kind Hearts and Coronets " . that be the pattern we still want to adopt . let I be absolutely clear : we believe that there be mutual benefit to both of we if we continue on the path we have select . I be not sure precisely what be intend : I do not know what a tariff on a service would look like and I do not know whether the intention be for it to be on movie theatre . the danger be that the US already have two major problem with its film industry : one be distribution cost , so if the US go down that route , it could lead to heavy problem for the industry ; and the other be the very high cost of make movie in the US . Most film these day be an international collaboration of some kind , and we want to maintain that . even the british production of " Paddington " — I be look at the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) only because I suspect he be about to mention it ; and he have just give I a Paddington hard stare — be make by StudioCanal , which be , of course , part of Canal + . it have spanish actor as well as british actor . this be just a fact of modern film : they be multinational and that be one of their strength . incidentally , I do not think that Paddington ever go to Peru — I do not think they film any of it in Peru . I be also tell by my peruvian friend that there aren ' t any bear in Peru . I welcome the Minister ' s measured and thoughtful response to President Trump ' s late announcement and his full - throate support for the british film industry . he will be aware that my constituency be very much a film venue for both film and television . in his discussion with the United States , will he ensure that he be also champion high - end television , as I think he briefly mention , which be often film , produce and make in Hackney ? I also make a plea for all the creative industry in my constituency that feed into the film industry . can the Minister ensure there be good communication from the Government on these negotiation ? this be create a great a deal of uncertainty . I know Hackney very well ; as my hon . friend know , I use to be a councillor there . it be not just London that be a phenomenal place to make a movie , but the whole United Kingdom . we have some of the good scenery and some of the good building . it be not only Bath , which get use endlessly in lot of film — when I be there a couple of week ago , I hear about a long list of they . my hon . friend be also right about television . what be the difference between make " Bridgerton " and make a movie ? in fact , the pattern be very similar ; international collaboration be important because it deliver international audience , and we want to maintain that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . british film really be the marmalade sandwich in the lunchbox of our creative industry ; it have give we Bond , Paddington , Harry Potter and Monty Python . Donald Trump clearly think he be a god - like figure , but on the Lib Dem Benches , we be clear that he be not the messiah — he ' s a very naughty boy . if he have his way , we would be watch " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Alcatraz " , or perhaps " Harry Potter and the Executive Order of the Phoenix " . will the Minister confirm that all option will be on the table to protect our film industry , include work with ally such as Canada and Australia , which have show strength in recent week by vote anti - trump ? will he commit to immediately meet film industry leader in the UK to co - ordinate a response in this area , and will the Government back our world - lead creative by do the right thing on AI and copyright ? I could have predict half the hon . Gentleman ' s question , because I know Paddington would get in there . on a serious note , I be meet industry representative tomorrow afternoon , and I look forward to understand their precise concern , in addition to the obvious concern that we all share . I want to caution slightly against a word that have be use three time now , I think , with member say that President Trump have " announce " something . a clear policy have not be announce — I think we need to be careful about that . as I say early , it be difficult to see how a tariff would be impose on a service or on film in this way . I want to be careful and precise in the way we move forward on this . I have be ask what we be do : we have already have people in Washington DC talk with people in the Trump Administration at the high level , and we will progress that . of course , we want to do everything we can to preserve the strength of the industry . I declare an interest , as one of my little sister work in the UK film and tv industry ; I be immensely proud of she . I urge the Minister to look at how we bolster home - make film and tv as part of the soon - to - be publish creative industry sector plan , particularly in Northumbria , where we have some of the most wonderful landscape ; a couple of year ago we sadly lose Sycamore Gap , which provide a memorable backdrop , but we also have Hadrian ' s wall . we also have a fantastic workforce , but too often I see young people have to leave the north - east to get creative opportunity elsewhere in the UK . that be an extremely well - make point , and I would add to it something I say when I appear before the Select Committee — from whom I suppose we might hear in a moment — which be that I be very keen on have a mixed economy in the british film industry . sometimes we will be make film for other market ; sometimes we will be make film that tell predominantly british story about the way we be in this country and sell they around the world , but where the intellectual property remain with british production company . that be the mix that we need to achieve . the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) refer to our relationship with the US . I should also say that the Secretary of State be in India last week ; both she and I want to ensure that we also have a much strong relationship with India , which be one of the fast grow economy in the world . we think we can do a great deal more in that film production space as well . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . there be no doubt that this speculation will cause huge worry to those work in british film production , but , as the Minister say , it highlight once again the importance of bolster the british screen sector . we recommend step to deliver that in a recent Select Committee report , yet within day of publish it , his Department have already ask for an extension to the time in which it would respond . this weekend we hear rumour that the whole Department be up for the chop under his government — I be not sure if that be before or after he have sacrifice our creative industry on the altar of AI . the Minister be a brilliant communicator , and I know that deep in his heart he care passionately about this issue , but when will he show some grit and action on behalf of our world - lead creative industry , in particular our screen sector ? I hope the hon . Lady accept that there be area where I have take very deliberate action on the back of recommendation from her Committee , not least in relation to a levy on gig and arena ticket to fund support for small music venue — but I take her point . I be not aware that we have ask for an extension . we will get on with provide a response to she as fast as possible . it be an excellent report ; I have read it . it contain lot of good thing that I want to take forward , but we probably will not be able to do everything in it . it be really important that we focus on skill in the UK screen industry ; that have be raise repeatedly with I . I want every kid in the country to have a chance to work in the creative industry , include in film and high - end television . many would not even think that that be a possibility , so we need to transform the whole pathway into those industry skill ; I know that that be one of the thing that the hon . Lady ' s Committee have raise . whether it be because of the fantastic , state - of - the - art shinfield studio just up the road , access to fantastic filming location such as Swinley forest on the Crown Estate , or our incredible transport link , Bracknell Forest be increasingly become a go - to location for the film industry . as the Minister have already touch on , we need to see more emphasis place on home - grow skill , so that young people in Bracknell can access the fantastic opportunity that the film sector offer . will he say a bit more about what this Government will do to break down the barrier to opportunity in the film industry ? we have already invest significant amount of money in the skill sector , and more come as a result of the Budget . my hon . friend be quite right that his patch be a go - to area for film production . one reason that US company — and , for that matter , company from many place around the world — come to the UK to make film be for our skill ; we have some of the good cinematographer , technical expert and designer , as well as the act talent , which mean that it be possible to make a very convincing film in the UK more effectively and cheaply than in many other place . we be determined to ensure that the UK remain the good place in the world to make movie . film studio be a really important part of our economy in Hertfordshire and give opportunity , job , apprenticeship and work experience to people in my constituency . as the Minister have recognise , it be not remotely clear yet how the tariff will operate , and many have say that they be unworkable , but if America go ahead and we have to take action in this country to ensure that our film industry be competitive , I urge he to look at the business rate regime with the Treasury . Sky Studios Elstree near my constituency have see its business rate go up by more than 600 % — they now account for 30 % of its operating cost . I encourage the Minister to look at tackle that regime , as one measure to ensure that we protect our creative industry and the film sector here in the UK . the hon . Lady make a good point , which have be raise with I by several other member . we make special provision in the Budget to ensure that the business rate for studio be protect until 2034 , and I think that be a good measure . I know that some of the very large studio be find it more difficult , and I be happy to continue look at the issue . let I read some statistic that may be helpful . accord to a report publish in January by the Motion Picture Association of the United States of America , in 2023 the US earn $ 22 . 6 billion in film and television export , and its service trade surplus be $ 15 . 3 billion , or 6 % of the total US trade surplus in service . it be mutually beneficial for the US and the UK to remain with the system we have , without tariff . as you will be aware , Mr Speaker , Harlow be the birthplace of Rupert Grint , Jo Joyner and Rik Mayall . I have to mention Leila Khan too , because I use to teach she and she be an up - and - come star . Harlow have also recently double as Paris in an episode of " the Crown " . do the Minister agree that Harlow , as well as the rest of the UK , have a huge amount of talent and that , far from rely on US film import , we produce some fantastic film in this country and our film industry be grow ? what can this Government do to support it to continue to grow and thrive ? my hon . friend be quite right about Harlow . I would argue that many different part of the UK that have never yet manage to get into film need to up their game . local authority can play a role in ensure that their area be consider as a potential place to make a film . it be often about whether other facility be available in the local area that can contribute to that . he make a fair point on behalf of Harlow , and if there be a film , he will be star in it . I may be able to help the Minister : Paddington Bear actually live in Borehamwood , because the movie " Paddington " be produce in my constituency at Elstree Studios , which sit alongside Sky Studios Elstree as a jewel in the crown of the british industry . it be no surprise that Donald Trump be jealous because , by many account , more film and television content be produce in Hertfordshire than in Hollywood . as the Minister rightly say , the current situation be of mutual benefit to our two nation . there be one thing that he could do right now , though , and for once I agree with the Minister — sorry , I mean to say the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) ; I will get my fact right in a moment . the key point be that business rate be prove to be crippling for many of our studio , include Elstree , so I urge the Minister to have another go at the Treasury . I remember a similar situation with the culture recovery fund ; the Treasury be resistant to begin with , but if he keep go , he will get some further movement . that would be a huge fillip to the industry and would help it to withstand whatever shock it may face . I be very confused about who be and be not a Minister these day . I accept the point : it be clearly an issue . I remember that when we be in opposition , I be regularly knock on the door of the now shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , try to get he to do something to persuade the Treasury to do something about business rate . I be fully on board , and I understand the problem . I look forward to the right hon . member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) assist I in more endeavour in the future . Hugh Bonneville tell I that he be slightly upset when he sign up to " Paddington in Peru " , because he think that he would be film in Peru , but he only get as far as Borehamwood . the economy be set to benefit from a £ 50 billion boost from the universal theme park in Bedfordshire , which will star Paddington Bear ; all member will welcome that . do the Minister agree that star like Paddington Bear have an enormous amount of soft power ? we have hear that in the Chamber today . what can the Minister do to reassure I that he will ensure that we protect and support the next generation of great british storyteller ? my hon . friend make a very good point . I be delighted that the theme park will happen ; it will be transformational for the british tourism industry , apart from anything else , and it will be the large theme park across the whole of Europe . I be very grateful to my colleague in the Treasury , who certainly deliver when it be necessary in relation to that . I emphasise how important not just our film industry , but our high - end television — and , for that matter , the very existence of the BBC and stuff produce by ITV and many other — be as part of our soft power , although I think Paddington probably count as hard power . shinfield Studios in Wokingham borough have bring hundred of job to my constituent and to many across Berkshire . it be a very important part of our local economy and a symbol of the UK ' s creative strength . we must not forget that Berkshire be the Hollywood of Britain , and it must be protect from Donald Trump ' s reckless tariff . will the Minister condemn these harmful tariff and work with the film industry to ensure that the UK remain the world ' s premier destination for film investment ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . we want to maintain the UK as the premier destination for international investment from not just the United States of America , but India , which I have already reference , and Nigeria ; I would like to see a lot more co - production between the UK and Nigeria . it be worth bear in mind that 51 % of our movie export go to the European Union , so this be a genuinely open market , and my belief be that free trade be well than tariff . the Minister will know that the UK have a world - lead film and tv workforce that fly the flag for collaboration , british talent and economic growth around the world . but he will also know that much of our film workforce be freelance and that they will be watch this news with anxiety , particularly as many of they be still recover from the impact of the recent US industrial action . I thank the Minister for his hard work . I be pleased that he have speak to Phillipa Childs , the head of Bectu . the union Bectu be a fearless champion for our industry in the UK . will he join I in reassure Bectu member and our film workforce that we be on their side and that , whatever happen , we will help protect film talent in the UK ? I shall make two point in reply to that question . first , there have be difficulty over the past couple of year in the UK film and high - end television industry because of what happen in the United States of America . that make the point about the mutuality between the US and the UK film industry all the strong . the truth be that I would like the US movie industry to be strong , because if it be strong , our industry will be strong as well . there be net benefit for both of we , and there be a win - win situation . the second point be about freelance work . I have often worry that so much of the creative industry rely on freelance worker . in many case , that be great , because people want that kind of career , but they also need some degree of security if they be to be able to take out a mortgage and plan their economic future . that be definitely one of the thing that we will look at in relation to the industrial strategy , which we hope to be publish soon . the film industry be enormously important to the Buckinghamshire economy . Pinewood Studios be in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , but many of my constituent be support in job not just at the studio themselves , but in the many supply - chain business that feed into they . Pinewood go over and above most other business I know in provide opportunity for young people through its Futures Festival , which showcase every single career that can be have in the film industry . much of that success be actually achieve on american money , because company such as Disney and Amazon use Pinewood out of choice . therefore , on top of what the Minister have say about work with the Trump Administration to try to avoid these tariff , can he assure we that he be work with company such as Disney and Amazon to ensure that those american brand be speak up to say why they be choose Pinewood and other UK studio ? I think the first text message that I receive early on Monday morning be from Pinewood . so , yes , I be on that case as well , but it be not just about Amazon and Disney ; it be also about the streamer and a whole series of other such organisation make their product here in the United Kingdom . of course , Pinewood be the home of Bond , which also make the point , because historically the distribution right for Bond be , I think , with an american company , but the production right be with Barbara Broccoli and her relative . all of that be now with the US , but let I put it this way : I be very hopeful that Bond will still always be british . I be glad that the Minister mention the phrase " win - win " , because in international trade in the film industry and the creative industry , it have to be about win - win rather than zero sum . when I discuss this industry with Fabien Riggall , the founder of Secret Cinema , it become absolutely clear that we have such incredible innovator in our creative industry , and in the film sector specifically . for they to flourish , we need to retain that sense that it be a win - win situation internationally and for the UK , not zero sum . my hon . friend make an extremely good point . I will , if I might , just leap off the word cinema to make the point that film be not just about production , but about find audience . one of my concern in the UK be about how we make sure that cinema — or movie theatre as they be know in the US — can flourish as well . they can be a really important part of dignity in a town . a town that have a cinema be likely to be a place that have respect for itself , and I would like to ensure that that continue into the future . Scotland be now one of the most seek after film destination in the world , and US film company regularly base their operation in Scotland . we have feature in everything from Batman to Indiana Jones to " World War z " . all of that , as well as develop the film sector in Scotland , will be put at risk if there be any concept of tariff at all . will the Minister work closely with the Scottish Government in his response to the US ? will he state quite clearly that such a move would be mutually self - destructive , and that all party be set to lose if the US proceed with anything approach tariff ? I have already make the point that we think there be a win - win situation . a strong US movie industry will benefit a strong UK movie industry . I believe in fair trade and free trade . in fact , over recent year , it have be worry that more and more country have want to put up protectionist measure around a whole series of industry . it have tend not to happen in service , and to be more about good , which be one of the other issue . the hon . member be right about Scotland . I be very keen on work with all the devolve administration to make sure that we remain the good place in which to make film and high - end television . I do not know whether anybody have watch " Havoc " — [ interruption . ] sorry , I be not refer to the conservative party . return to my point , " Havoc " be all film in Wales , but it look as if it be an american dystopian city . Warner Brothers Studios Leavesden be in my constituency and a genuinely world - class film and tv production centre . it provide thousand of job , generate significant wealth for the UK economy , and earn South West Hertfordshire the reputation of Hollywood in Hertfordshire . major international blockbuster , include " Barbie " , " mission : impossible " , " Paddington " and the Harry Potter franchise have be film there , and the recently confirm HBO Harry Potter tv series be set to be film there this summer . leave aside the decision that the Chancellor have make and the impact that they have have on the economy , can the Minister reassure we that he will continue to update the House and the industry more widely about how the Government will mitigate these tariff if they come to fruition ? we be work on make sure that we have a proper trade deal that would not just mitigate the tariff , but mean that we would not end up in the situation that the hon . Gentleman have just describe . I know Leavesden well , and , for that matter , Warner be in touch very quickly — actually I think I be in touch with it very quickly on Monday morning . I be very hopeful that it will be part of our discussion when I gather the industry together tomorrow afternoon , but the hon . Gentleman make a good point none the less . unlike many other in the House , I can not say that my area — Totnes — have film studio , or that a major movie have be make in my constituency , but we do have a lot of creative live in our community , from writer to musician and producer . we also have a costume maker , who happen to be my daughter . I be very proud of she and she be enter this industry — an industry that we should all be proud of . if these tariff materialise , they will deal another blow to the UK film industry follow the strike that we have already see . will the Minister assure we that he be ready to protect and insulate the UK film industry and all the job that it sustain , particularly freelance job , by push for either tax credit or business rate adjustment ? I find it difficult to believe that there have not ever be a film make in Devon , but if that be the case , one of my major aim must be to make sure that in the next few year a film be make in Devon . perhaps we will be able to get the hon . member a bit part . I will , if I may , just refer back to Cheltenham . one of the film make in Cheltenham many , many year ago be " if " , which be wonderful and be direct by Lindsay Anderson . the word " if " be a very important one at the moment , because we be talk about if these tariff be to be impose . on Sunday , the President of the United States say : " we want movie make in AMERICA , again ! " do the Minister agree that the key to make great movie be to ensure artistic freedom and expression and to grow the necessary skill ? with that in mind , would he visit Tech Trowbridge in my constituency , which be do a good job in upskille young people in multimedia ? yes . as a one - time producer of a British - make film , I be proud that North Norfolk have be the backdrop for many great film , include " Alan Partridge : Alpha Papa " . it be no wonder that President Trump would want to dissuade such a film from come to America , as Steve Coogan himself have say that " the only person on Earth who ' s more Alan Partridge than Alan Partridge be Donald Trump . " can the Minister assure the blossom creative sector in North Norfolk that he value its contribution to our economy , and can he give reassurance that the Government will do everything they can to protect the sector from another Trump trade tantrum ? the hon . member refer to some thing I have already speak about , but why do he not make his film in Devon ? he have obviously not get the message from his party colleague . there be lot of great british film that will be watch in american cinema over the week to come , and I be certain that no President would want to say , " Don ' t watch british film " . one of the film I enjoy most over the last few month be " Conclave " , which be a phenomenal success and remarkably timely . the film industry be important in Northern Ireland ; the Executive have pour a considerable amount of money into Northern Ireland Screen , and the internationally successful " Game of Thrones " be film in Northern Ireland , much of it in my constituency . we can see the benefit of that , as ten of million of pound have be pour in for building set , for costume and for catering , and even now thousand of tourist come every year to see where the filming be , so there be a long legacy . I welcome the way in which the Minister be deal with this situation . tariff be speculation at the moment , but before they become policy it be important that we get the message over to the Administration . will he ensure that in construct his argument he consult with the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure that Northern Ireland ' s voice be hear in these discussion ? a rather " Lawrence of Arabia " question . the right hon . Gentleman make a good point . I have already have discussion on other matter relate to the creative industry with member of the Executive in Northern Ireland , and I think I have another call next week , so I will of course make sure they be consult . he make a very good point about tourism . an awful lot of tourist who come to the UK want to see the place where some of their favourite movie and television series be make . that be one of the thing that VisitBritain be capitalise on at the moment with its " star GREAT Britain " campaign . I very much enjoy discuss the british film industry , because member across the House stand up and say that they have the Hollywood of Hertfordshire or Bedfordshire and everywhere else . I be bless in Spelthorne to have Europe ' s big film studio and the second big in the world in Shepperton — interestingly , it be second not to Hollywood but to China . there be a certain amount of nervousness in Spelthorne as a result of the posting on Truth Social that the Minister have come here to talk about . I agree with he that it be incredibly difficult logistically and technically to unpick the US - UK intellectual property in a film , and I think it will prove to be so . I therefore commend he for his consider run at this ; I think it be the right thing to do . a couple of week ago I visit Cineco , one of our many british film support company , which make set and prop . one point it make on skill be that the apprenticeship model do not work terribly well for industry that have so many freelancer and such lumpy work schedule . as a sidebar to the Minister ' s meeting with industry leader tomorrow , would he please raise and discuss that with industry leader ? another " Lawrence of Arabia " question . interestingly , I be at the Bad Wolf studio in Cardiff last week , and one thing Jane Tranter raise with I be how important the security of know that they have a number of project in their studio have be to take on apprentice in the company . they have be make not just " Doctor who " but " his Dark Materials " , and " Industry " be be film there at the moment . there be a whole series of different project , and that enable the studio to take people on not just on a daily basis . we need to change the apprenticeship levy in the UK so that it work well for the film industry and so that the industry can make long - term commitment to people ' s future career . I appreciate the Minister ' s comment this afternoon . I be a member of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , and we have hear over and over again how important UK film tax credit be to the industry and about the tangible difference they make to film maker across the UK . can the Minister say whether the Government be consider increase or adjust they in any way to maintain competitiveness with US and other international market , give the context we be now work within ? I have always say that I support film tax credit . labour first introduce they under Gordon Brown . they be continue by the Conservative Government , and then we introduce two new one . incidentally , I think that the independent £ 15 million movie tax credit will make a significant difference to the UK , particularly at this point . I note that some document produce around the semi - announcement in the United States of America have praise the way that we have do thing in the UK , and other part of the world want to mirror it . I will take praise wherever I can get it . the uncertainty of President Trump ' s comment put an unsettledness in the industry , especially in Northern Ireland , where we have the titanic Studios and Northern Ireland Screen work away . titanic Studios be already work on " a Knight of the Seven Kingdoms " , which be a prequel to " Game of Thrones " , so there be a lot of activity go on in the industry . will the Minister consider include Northern Ireland Screen in his meeting tomorrow with the industry , rather than leave it another week to engage with it ? that be a very fair point ; I be happy to do that . I be deeply proud that St Margarets in my constituency have be home to Twickenham Film Studios for over 100 year . the studio have be involve in production and post - production work for big - name film include " the Italian Job " and " Ghandi " , and most recently they do the Oscar - win sound production for " Top Gun : Maverick " . however , they have be beset by financial challenge , from the US writer ' strike to the sky - rocket business rate mention by my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) . the tariff could deal a fatal blow to studio such as Twickenham . can I urge the Minister , as other have , to work with the Treasury and the Valuation Office Agency on bring down the rateable value of film studio ? can I also invite he to follow in the footstep of Tom Cruise and come to St Margarets to visit Twickenham Film Studios ? the thing be , Tom Cruise do all his own stunt , doesn ' t he ? I be a little bit nervous about be dangle off the back of a helicopter or dump in a vat of — I don ' t know . [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister say he will happily arrange it . well , then , I invite he to see the Rhondda tunnel ; we can dangle he down a hole as well . the hon . Lady be make a point that have be make several time . Tom Cruise be one of the big investor in the UK because of all the movie that have be make here , and we be very grateful to he . the British Film Institute will be honour he next week , and I think that be really good . as I say , we be the good place in the world to make movie , and we want to continue that . I feel very left out , not have a studio in my constituency , but we have produce some of the good actor in the world , include Sir Stanley Baker . I think one of his good film — you will know this , Mr Speaker — be " Sodom and Gomorrah " . I be think of a different film . what film be you — hang on , we be not mean to do this , be we ? order , order . as I be say , I be also very proud of the young actor Callum Scott Howells , who be do phenomenally well . for the final episode , I call Jim Shannon . never the final episode — still a wee bit to go yet . I thank the Minister very much for his answer , and for the energy he display on behalf of the sector . in a question in the Chamber yesterday to the Minister for Trade Policy and Economic Security , I highlight the £ 330 million income for the film industry in Northern Ireland since 2018 . the importance of USA film to that can not be overstate ; they include epic such as " Blade Runner " , to say nothing of " Game of Thrones " and " Star Wars " . so many film use our highly skilled studio and work , due to the cost - effectiveness of this option . the Trump tariff will negate much of this benefit . I be quite confident of the Minister ' s response , but how can he emphasise the need to give consideration to our film sector , which be an integral part of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I think the credit be already roll , and then up come the hon . Gentleman . it may be just that I be an optimistic person by nature , but I feel very optimistic about where all these negotiation will end up . I be hopeful that we will end up with some kind of deal . I also passionately believe that wherever that deal end up , the UK film industry will succeed , because we have always be a great nation at tell story that people want to watch all around the world . we have some of the great actor . we may be a small nation , but we manage to dominate on screen all around the world because we be just talented , and everybody will still want to keep on buy that talent , whatever the deal may be . India - Pakistan : escalation with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on India and Pakistan . the whole House will have be closely follow development in recent week follow the horrific terrorist attack in Pahalgam on 22 April , which leave 26 tourist dead . last night , soon after 21 . 00 british summer time , indian force launch missile strike against nine site in Pakistan and Pakistani - administer Kashmir . the Government of India have describe their action as " measure , non - escalatory , proportionate and responsible " , and deliberately target at terrorist infrastructure . follow India ' s action last night , a military spokesperson for Pakistan state that 26 Pakistanis have die and 46 be injure , include civilian and child . the Pakistani Government , at a meeting of their national security council early today , state that they reserve the right to respond in a manner of their choosing . this be an incredibly delicate moment in an evolve and fast - move situation . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister note just now , rise tension between India and Pakistan be a serious concern . the Government have be monitor the situation closely and stay in close contact with all the key partner . since the development overnight , my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have be in contact with both the Indian External Affairs Minister Jaishankar , and the Pakistani Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Dar . our high commissioner in Delhi and Islamabad have also be in close contact with their host . this morning , I meet the Pakistani Finance Minister Aurangzeb . the Foreign Secretary have also be co - ordinate closely with other partner , notably the United States and the Gulf . our consistent message to both India and Pakistan have be to show restraint . they need to engage in dialogue to find a swift , diplomatic path forward . the UK have a close and unique relationship with both country . it be heartbreaking to see civilian life be lose . if this escalate far , nobody win . we clearly condemn the horrific terrorist attack last month , which be the bad such attack in Indian - administer Kashmir for many year . now , we need all side to focus urgently on the step need to restore regional stability and ensure the protection of civilian . the UK will continue to work closely with our international partner in pursuit of short - term de - escalation and long - term stability . the Foreign Secretary will have a chance to discuss the situation with EU Foreign Ministers in Warsaw today . he and the whole Government will stay in close touch with the government of India and Pakistan , as well as with those with influence in the region . De - escalation be of the utmost importance , not least give the large number of british national in the region . the safety of british national will always be our priority . overnight , we issue factual update to our travel advice for both India and Pakistan , update british national on military activity and potential disruption to flight in the region . british national in both India and Pakistan should stay up to date with our travel advice and follow the advice of the local authority . I be acutely aware that for many community across the UK , and indeed member across the House , this be a personal and sensitive situation . the british - pakistani and british - indian community make a huge contribution to this country . we recognise that this will be a difficult time for many . we look to all community and faith leader to spread the message that now be a time for come together across religious and ethnic difference . we now need to see calm head . Britain will continue to play its full part for de - escalation and diplomacy . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . on 22 April , terrorist brutally kill 26 tourist in Pahalgam in a barbaric and savage act of violence . Most victim be kill at point blank range by gunshot to their head . my thought and prayer be with all those affect by that murderous , violent terrorism in Pahalgam . it be an act of terrorism , and we must reflect on the fact that Pahalgam have join Mumbai , New Delhi and other place in India in be forever scar by an act of terror . this be clearly a precarious moment . we want to see tension ease between India and Pakistan . we want to avoid state - on - state military escalation . we be also clear that India have the right to take reasonable and proportionate step to defend itself , and to dismantle the vile terrorist infrastructure that have cause death and continue to threaten it . terrorist base in Pakistan threaten India and western interest — it be the country that Osama bin Laden be hide in — and because of the long history of violence be inflict by terrorist on India , the UK have in place long - stand security co - operation agreement with India . in fact , last week in the House , I remind the Government of those agreement , why they exist , and why they should matter to we in the UK . give those link , the UK Government should be at the forefront in work with our friend and ally to tackle the terrorist threat that we face collectively . the Minister will not be able to speak about intelligence sharing between the UK and India , but will he at least confirm whether our intelligence and security service have be in contact with India about the incident that take place , and whether they be support its investigation ? have the Government provide any specific security assistance to India in the aftermath of the terrorist attack in Kashmir ? could Britain offer specific support that might help avert escalation ? do the Minister agree with India ' s assessment that the Resistance Front , which claim responsibility for the 22 April attack , be a front for the proscribe Pakistan - base terrorist group Lashkar - e - Taiba , which have a clear history of commit act of terror against India , and have report link to Hamas ? there be report that Hamas representative meet it early this year . will the Minister confirm whether the UK Government be aware of any co - operation and link between Lashkar - e - Taiba and Hamas ? I ask he that last week , and he do not respond , so I would welcome an answer on that important point today . do he know which terror group be currently operate in Pakistan , and their link to other terrorist group that threaten our interest ? last week , the Minister say : " we be play our role to try to ensure that tension do not escalate . " — [ Official Report , 29 April 2025 ; Vol . 766 , c . 176 . ] the british Government have a role to play , and need to leverage their influence to help ease tension . what direct discussion have be take place between the India and Pakistan Governments since those attack two week ago ? be the UK inform in advance of the action be undertake ? do the Minister have a plan to support ease those tension ? the Minister refer to the Foreign Secretary ' s call with counterpart and his engagement . will he give more evidence of those discussion ? have Ministers undertake an assessment of the terrorist infrastructure in Pakistan ? have he have discussion with the Pakistan Government on this matter ? can Ministers give assurance that there be sufficient measure in place to ensure that no british aid to Pakistan , either bilaterally or through multilateral source , end up in the wrong hand ? the diaspora community in the UK have strong link to both India and Pakistan , as the Minister say , so can he give an update on the action that will be take to prevent the escalation of tension affect community in our country ? can he give detail of extra consular capacity and support that the UK will give to the high commission in both country for british national in Pakistan and India ? finally , will the Minister now be more forthcoming with the House about the Government ' s assessment of who carry out the terror attack in Kashmir and whether they be work with any other malign actor ? be he work through the security implication for the UK ? the right hon . Lady ask important question . let I take this opportunity to reiterate our condemnation of terrorism in all its form . our thought be still with those affect by the despicable act of 22 April , their love one and the people of India . the Prime Minister speak with Prime Minister Modi on 24 April and the Foreign Secretary speak with his counterpart on 27 April . we be all , as the right hon . Lady would expect , in regular contact with our counterpart . as she may know , the Foreign Secretary be travel and I be not privy to his very late contact , but I know that they be ongoing . the right hon . Lady ask important question about community relation in this country . I be work closely with my Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government counterpart , who be talk to affected community across the country and recognise the sensitivity that she point to . I can confirm that I have have extend discussion with my pakistani counterpart about the terrorist threat within Pakistan and the effort that need to be make to address that . that be a terrorist threat that affect Pakistan herself , which , even in recent month , have suffer significant terrorist attack . the reality be that India ' s air strike in Pakistan and Azad Kashmir have see the killing and injury of dozen of civilian , include child , and lead to a massive escalation in the real threat of war between two nuclear power . that follow two week of bulldozer tactic and thousand of mass arrest in Kashmir , the unilateral withdrawal from the Indus treaty effectively threaten collective punishment on million of Pakistanis and now this act of aggression , all in complete contradiction of international law . the Minister be right to say that the international community must now focus on de - escalation and stability , but that can not be achieve in full without address the central issue of Kashmir , an issue close to the heart of many hon . member . indeed , the plight of the Kashmiris have be raise by I in this Chamber over the last decade . do the Minister accept that the UK have a moral , historical and legal duty and responsibility to end this 80 - year period in which UN resolution on Kashmir have , frankly , sit gather dust ? will he act so that the son and daughter of Kashmir get their birthright of self - determination , promise to they decade ago ? it be well known to this House that there be , of course , a range of wide issue between India and Pakistan , and Kashmir be one of they . however , on this most delicate of day , it be important that the House remain focused on the importance of de - escalation . that be my key message from the Dispatch Box today . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the terrible terrorist attack last month bring death to 26 civilian and rightly shock and appal many . yesterday ' s military strike by India and the subsequent exchange of artillery fire in Kashmir mark a deeply concern escalation . the prospect of New Delhi and Islamabad engage in further tit - for - tat military action risk destabilise the entire region and lead to more civilian death . their status as nuclear power also generate severe global risk . it be vital , therefore , that both government work to de - escalate the current crisis . maintain open line of communication be key to prevent escalation and enable a diplomatic off ramp for both government . will the Minister therefore provide more detail on the conversation that he say have take place overnight with Government representative in New Delhi and Islamabad ? what step be the Government take to help maintain an open dialogue between both government ? will he also confirm whether additional resource be be provide to support british national in Pakistan and India to ensure their safety ? give our shared history , and now as a Commonwealth partner to India and Pakistan , the UK have a particular responsibility to support effort at mediation and to help prevent retaliatory action that could contribute to more death on both side . will the Minister describe what plan the Government have to engage international partner at the UN to support mediation effort ? yesterday ' s strike follow a series of escalatory measure take by India and Pakistan over the past week , in addition to the cessation of military activity . it be vital that these countermeasure be wind back . will the Minister confirm what , as part of mediation effort , the Government be do to press India to reinstate the Indus Waters treaty and Pakistan to reopen its airspace ? indian and pakistani community across the UK will be very worried by these new development , and it be vital that they be fully support . in addition to the remark the Minister have already make , will he provide more detail on what step the Government be take across all Departments to support community here in the UK ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , which I will try to take in turn . I can confirm that the Foreign Office be take action to ensure that the good possible consular service be available to british national in India and Pakistan . there have be a number of change in relation to airspace even over the course of the last 24 hour , so I encourage member of this House and anybody watch at home to keep Foreign Office travel advice as the central place for information . this be a fast - move situation and option for air travel may change — indeed , they have change over the last 24 hour — so please do keep update on that . I confirm that my Department be take step to try and ensure that our call centre be open , and those who be concerned should get in direct touch . as I say early , we be in direct touch with both government , and I be with the Pakistani Finance Minister shortly before come to this House . I will not comment in great detail about the substance of those discussion , other than to say that my key message in those engagement be the same message that I just repeat to my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , which be that now be a time for de - escalation . India ' s record on Kashmir be not something to be proud of : it have be ethnic cleansing Kashmiris for over 78 year . modi ' s record on human right — from an individual who once be bar from come to this country — be not forget . Kashmir have a history that span over 4 , 000 year . it have never be part of India and never will be , so that can remain a distant dream of Modi ' s . do the Minister agree that now be the time to de - escalate , but also to make sure that the promise of a plebiscite for the Kashmiri people be also deliver so that this issue can be resolve once and for all ? my hon . friend be right to focus on de - escalation . that be my focus this afternoon from the Dispatch Box . our position on Kashmir remain unchanged , but the focus for now must be on ensure that there be no further threat to regional stability . the Minister have rightly underline the fact that we face an incredibly dangerous moment , but that Britain have a uniquely deep , historical and influential relationship with both these great country , which we must now deploy with great energy and skill . do he agree that the Government of Pakistan must take more action against the terrorist organisation that operate from their soil ? do he also understand the outrage that indian people , include the diaspora in Royal Sutton Coldfield , feel at these dreadful event ? I recognise the right hon . Gentleman ' s long - stand attention to these issue . as Secretary of State for the Department for International Development , he send a young DFID official to Pakistan in 2010 , and I remember his commitment then . he be right that Pakistan have be plague by terrorist threat within its own border . it be a plague that have be of concern to its neighbour , but also most acutely to many Pakistanis , as we have see devastatingly in recent month . they must do more to seek to tackle that threat and I have discuss that with Pakistani Ministers through the course of my ministerial duty . India be , of course , right to feel outrage at the terrible attack of 22 April . there be now civilian casualty on both side , and it be vital that we focus on de - escalation and try to restore calm and regional stability . I thank the Minister for come to the House so soon . could he confirm when he or his Department last meet the ambassador of India and Pakistan , and will he ensure that the dialogue continue with they ? I can confirm to my hon . friend that the dialogue will continue . of course , the Prime Minister be in touch with Prime Minister Modi just yesterday , and I be with the Pakistani Finance Minister and , indeed , the pakistani high commissioner in London just an hour or two ago . follow the terrible terrorist atrocity on 22 April , as the Minister have outline , India take diplomatic action and further action to penalise Pakistan . Pakistan then retaliate . but it be make clear at the time by India that either Pakistan remove the terrorist space along the line of control , or India would remove they . last night , nine site be hit . those be terrorist basis where terrorist be be train to commit further atrocity in India . [ interruption . ] will the Minister call on Pakistan to ensure that those terrorist basis be remove once and for all ? the situation remain incredibly delicate and fast - move , and we have see rival account through the course of the morning about event . we will of course track these event very carefully . I respond to the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) on the question of the terrorist group in Pakistan , which pose a threat to Pakistan as well as other . we will of course continue to monitor event very closely . there be still much that be dispute , but it be absolutely obvious that for regional stability to be restore , we need to have direct , urgent contact between India and Pakistan and calm head prevail . rise — order . member need to temper their language and not use statement such as " mislead the House " . twenty six people lose their life in the Pahalgam terrorist attack , and now 26 people lose their life in yesterday ' s attack . the truth remain that no evidence have be present to anybody — any national or international partner — to say that Pakistan be , indeed , responsible for the attack on Pahalgam . I thank the Minister for come so soon to the House and for all his effort in try to de - escalate . but to actually get de - escalation , and if India be so certain , do he agree that India should share that evidence with the world to justify this barbaric attack kill 26 people and attack mosque in the middle of the night ? as I say in the previous answer , there be clearly a considerable amount of debate about the fact of what have happen just in the last few hour . I do not wish to focus , and it would indeed be inappropriate for the UK to speculate , on those exact fact . we need to focus from this House on de - escalate the risk to regional stability that we see today . there be enormous distrust between both nation , which stem from the dispute over Kashmir . immediately after those terrorist event in India last month , India be quick off the mark to blame Pakistan . in response , Pakistan make it plain that it have nothing to do with it . Pakistan ' s position be , how can armed terrorist travel 230 km over devastating terrain by foot , assassinate people and then return by foot into Pakistan in an area that be the most militarise zone on this planet ? it be somewhat incredulous that blame be put on Pakistan virtually within an hour of this atrocity . will the Minister commit to leverage our diplomatic influence to encourage an environment that be conducive to open dialogue ? do he agree that there be an ever - grow imperative to normalise relation and address underlying issue , from territorial dispute to act of violence , to have peaceful negotiation and mutual understanding ? the hon . member be right to finish his remark focus on the importance of direct dialogue , which I of course support . I will not seek to adjudicate from this Dispatch Box on the compete claim about the fact . after the recent terrorist attack , as tension on the subcontinent sadly escalate and video of the destruction circulate , many of my Slough constituent of indian and pakistani heritage be extremely worried about the safety of their love one as bullet fly and bomb drop . that be especially the case for those of Punjabi and Kashmiri heritage because they already have be , and will be , impact the most by the death and injury of their family and love one . while send condolence to all affected and recognise the UK ' s historical tie and responsibility , will the Minister assure Parliament that our Government will be at the forefront of effort to de - escalate tension between the two nuclear armed nation and that we will ensure that negotiation be enable to chart a path to peace and prosperity ? I can assure my hon . friend that we be very much involve in the effort to try to encourage de - escalation . I encourage member with constituent and their family who be concern by development to point they towards our travel advice , which we will keep update as and when the situation require . the barbaric terrorist attack in Kashmir on innocent Indian and Nepali tourist cause deep distress in my constituency , which be home to many indian national and those of nepali nationality . I welcome the Minister ' s tone about de - escalation — he be get the tone just about right — but may I also urge he to ensure that none of the escalation of tension in that part of the world happen here in the UK , and that Hindu temple in particular be offer the same funding and security give to mosque around the country ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his measured and reasonable question . I will take away the issue he raise . I have be in regular contact with the Minister for Faith , Communities and Resettlement in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . we be discuss these issue closely , recognise the sensitivity in constituency like the hon . Gentleman ' s and many other that have be mention . the Minister will know that our british constituent with strong link to Kashmir be both horrify by the terrorist attack and terrify by the escalation of violence that we have see overnight , as well as by the online hatred be foment . two week ago , I ask the Minister about the possibility of missile be use in escalation . we have now hear from the indian Foreign Secretary that they believe there be further terrorist act plan , and the pakistani Prime Minister have call last night ' s event an " act of war " . the Minister will be aware of the UN Security Council meeting plan for Monday . what word of comfort can he offer our constituent who be horrified about what might happen in the next couple of day that this Government will push not just for de - escalation but a long - term solution that guarantee the peace and security of everybody in Kashmir ? I thank my hon . friend for convey the concern of her constituent so effectively . regional stability be in the interest of India and Pakistan , and indeed the UK , and it will be to those end that our diplomacy will be focus . as she acknowledge , my focus this afternoon be on de - escalation , but of course we will engage with both government on the full range of the interest engage . I thank the Minister for his statement . we also condemn the abhorrent terror act and abhor any loss of civilian life . we do have two nuclear armed state , though , who be set up with one another . there have be a diminishing of the international rule - base system . in his approach , can he assure I that he will be stress the importance of that rule - base system when it come to mediating between the two party ? I can assure the hon . member that the UK remain committed in all our interaction to emphasise the pre - eminent importance of international humanitarian law and the rule - base international order . the murder of 26 civilian in Pahalgam be truly horrific , but India ' s airstrike have result in the death of 26 civilian in Pakistan and Azad Kashmir . this can not be a bizarre , macabre game of tit - for - tat where the only people who suffer be civilian on both side . can the Minister reassure my rochdale constituent , many of whom be concerned about family member , that the Government be do everything they can through their consular access and also at diplomatic level to de - escalate the situation and to make it crystal clear to India that water can not be use as a weapon of war against the wide people of Pakistan and Kashmir ? my hon . friend be right , of course . civilian must be protect . for british national concern by development , I would encourage they to refer to our travel advice , as I say early . this be obviously a fast - move situation and we will not always be in a position to update our late advice from this Dispatch Box , so constituent should please look there first and foremost for advice from the British Government about how to ensure their safety . my hon . friend refer to some of the wide issue that we discuss last week , include the Indus water treaty , which I understand be in abeyance rather than be repeal . some of these long - term issue will of course need to be discuss , but the first priority must be de - escalation . what role do the Minister envisage the Commonwealth playing as an honest broker in discussion between India and Pakistan ? will he also assure the House that , give the fact that the trade deal with India be sign just yesterday , there will be a clear demarcation of Government response and the Government will not feel in any way fetter , as a result of that trade deal , in act as an honest broker between the two country ? this be an important matter and I hope that he can assure the House on it . our priority be to ensure direct contact between India and Pakistan and to ensure that those tension be directly de - escalate . we be of course very proud that we be Commonwealth member with both India and Pakistan , and that Commonwealth membership reflect a deep and unique history between the UK and India and the UK and Pakistan . we welcome the free trade agreement that be announce yesterday , and of course these be close , deep friendship between both the country involve . we will , in all our effort , seek to restore regional stability and we will do that with both our friend . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your advice on temper our language in here , because word have consequence . I thank the Minister for his statement and the Foreign Secretary for all the work that they be do in the background . yesterday in this House , we celebrate the end of world war two and I commend the role of the british indian troop — now know as India and Pakistan — who fight shoulder to shoulder , with their shoulder to the wheel , to ensure that we , the allied troop , win and world war two be end . as someone with indian heritage , bear in India and whose parent be bear in Pakistan , I know only too well that neither nation will take a backward step , so what can the Minister do to assure I and my resident in Ilford South that we will do everything possible to bring both the superpower to the negotiating table to restore peace to this volatile part of the world ? I thank my hon . friend for the sensitive and personal tone that he bring to his remark . I , too , have see the Commonwealth war grave in Pakistan and India , which be a tribute to the service of many from the british indian force that fight in world war two . I can assure he and his constituent that we will do everything we can to play our full diplomatic role . give the significance and frightening ramification of further tension and instability between these two nuclear - armed neighbour , I agree with the Minister that de - escalation and diplomacy be the absolute priority . can he tell the House whether he have seek assurance that UK - manufacture weapon and military equipment have not be use in attack against civilian ? can I ask he now to explicitly rule out supply any UK - make weaponry to either side , in a bid to increase the pressure on all party to engage in much - need dialogue ? we have some of the tough arm export rule in the world , and they will be fully adhere to in this case . I do not intend to make further announcement from the Dispatch Box about that regime now , but I be sure that in due course I can return to the House to provide a further update . ten day ago , this House stand unite in condemn the attack on civilian on both side of the conflict , yet since then , the violence have tragically escalate , with more innocent life lose overnight as a result of an indian attack on civilian in Pakistan and Azad Kashmir . while we all want to see an immediate de - escalation of military action to prevent further loss of life , do the Minister agree that last peace in the region can not be achieve until the core issue of Kashmir be resolve and the Kashmiri people ' s right to self - determination under the UN resolution be recognise and uphold ? I recognise my hon . friend ' s long advocacy on these question . today we be call for de - escalation , and our position on Kashmir remain unchanged . I be sure I will return to this House to discuss the long - term issue between India and Pakistan in the fullness of time . may I welcome the Minister ' s statement ? of course terrorism , wherever it occur , should be condemn . on behalf of my constituent , many of whom be of pakistani heritage and indian heritage , may I join the Minister in call for de - escalation and for dialogue between India and Pakistan ? ahead of the meeting in New York next week , what more can the UK do , as a permanent member of the UN Security Council , to ensure that the United States be fully engage in that process ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his tone and for his question . I can confirm that the Foreign Secretary and other member of the Government be in direct touch with other permanent member of the Security Council , include the United States . this be a delicate moment , and it be in no one ' s interest to see further escalation , so of course I condemn the loss of civilian life , both in the terror attack and in the ongoing military strike . I join the right hon . member for the Wrekin ( Mark Pritchard ) in say that it be really important that we work with our international ally and partner to try to de - escalate the situation . I be contact by a constituent in the region who be concerned about himself and his family , so may I ask what role the fcdo be play with british national in the region ? my hon . friend be a doughty champion for her constituent . we have be update the travel advice and I can confirm that my Department have take step to be able to respond as fully as possible to the concern of our collective constituent who be in the region . Foreign Office travel advice will be the first and good place for constituent across the country to be look . I thank the Minister for his statement , and I associate myself with all member of the House in the condemnation of the terror attack in Pahalgam . I want to express my concern at the military escalation between nuclear - armed neighbour , which have already result in the killing of 26 innocent people . I have thousand of Kashmiri and indian constituent — I myself be of indian heritage — and they be absolutely terrified by what they see last night . they have be glue to their screen worry about their love one . the Minister have already explain what diplomatic step the UK be take to de - escalate the situation , but will he reassure my constituent that those step will be neutral and impartial , will not favour one country over the other , and will prioritise peace and stability in the region ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and for his acknowledgment of the importance of de - escalation . I confirm that we will prioritise regional stability , the reasonable interest of both country and , indeed , the UK ' s interest in the region , which include stability between two great friend of this country . I wholeheartedly support the Minister in his call for de - escalation . I reiterate my condolence to the family who have lose love one in the attack last month and overnight . about 20 % of my constituent have Pakistani - Kashmiri heritage but , for our common humanity , we should extend our condolence to anyone of any religion or origin , from either side of the line of control , who have lose a love one . will the Minister confirm which international ally he have be work with to de - escalate tension ? have the Minister be in contact with the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan , which be establish back in 1951 and have extensive intelligence in the region ? if so , what have be say ? as well as the direct contact with India , Pakistan and the variety of other nation that I have mention , I can confirm that we will continue to be in wide touch , include with colleague in the Gulf , and I be due to speak shortly to my saudi arabian counterpart . as the House would expect , we will be in regular and intense dialogue with all those with an interest in the region , and we will be share with they our call for de - escalation . do the Minister agree that whether it be the Nile , the Indus or anywhere else , weaponise water be wrong and particularly affect the world ' s poor ? do he share my disappointment at the suspension of the 1960 Indus water treaty ? do he far share my concern that be India tempt to exploit that suspension , China might decide to interfere with the headwater of the Brahmaputra ? the Indus river system be of enormous importance to both India and Pakistan , and it will be vital that all actor and international partner work towards its long - term sustainability . I thank the Minister for his statement on this deeply concern matter . give that he have already highlight the friendship that this country enjoy with both Pakistan and India , will he provide reassurance that it be in that manner that ongoing conversation with both country will be conduct ? will he detail which conversation have already happen or be plan with our international ally to de - escalate the situation ? I can confirm that it will be in that spirit that we conduct our diplomatic effort . many hon . member have allude to their own family connection with India or Pakistan . as I say early , I live in Pakistan during my first lengthy overseas post . I know that many hon . member from across the House feel our friendship with both India and Pakistan very deeply , and it be in that spirit that we will conduct our work . my heart go out to the family of the 26 tourist who be kill last month , but my heart also go out to the 26 civilian and child who be kill in Pakistan last night . I urge the Government to do all they can to de - escalate the situation . will the Minister confirm when our Prime Minister will speak to the indian and pakistani Governments , in particular Prime Minister Modi ? the Prime Minister speak to Prime Minister Modi yesterday , before these event . we have be in touch overnight and throughout the day with the Indian Government , and I have be in touch throughout the course of the day with the Pakistani Government as well . everyone in this House know that India have suffer a number of terrorist attack over the year , include one on the Indian Parliament . just last month , 26 innocent life be lose follow a devastating act of terrorism in Pahalgam . although India have a right to defend itself and its people , do the Minister agree that war be not good for both side , and that it be time for de - escalation and for Pakistan to work with India to eradicate terrorism from the region ? I agree with my hon . friend that de - escalation be vital , and it be to that end that our effort be dedicate . I commend the Minister and the Foreign Secretary for their effort to maintain dialogue with both country and , in conjunction with international ally , to de - escalate the situation . give the urgency for de - escalation , be there a reason why this matter can not be take to the UN Security Council for a more urgent discussion than be currently plan ? the agenda of the UN Security Council be agree in New York , and when we be in a position to update the House on what that agenda look like , we will of course do so . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Pakistan . my constituency be home to people of indian , pakistani and Kashmiri heritage . they be all absolutely gutte when they hear about the incident that take place two week ago and about what happen last night , and my condolence go to the family of all those who have die . India ' s decision to launch strike without provide clear evidence of Pakistan ' s involvement in recent attack be reckless and deeply irresponsible . Pakistan , despite routinely be blame , have actually suffer more from terrorism in the past 10 to 15 year than any country in the world . there be a terrorist attack there as recently as March . Pakistan have respond very carefully to what be happen . will the Minister urge India to stop escalate tension and to press for credible evidence and dialogue , instead of aggression ? our focus from the Dispatch Box be on de - escalation and regional stability . my hon . friend , who have a long - stand commitment to these issue , be right to focus on the damage that the scourge of terrorism have cause Pakistanis , as well as other , and that have be the subject of many discussion between I and my pakistani equivalent . Pakistan herself would most benefit from the eradication of the scourge of terrorism within her border . every day we witness the collapse of international limit on force , diplomatic norm , humanitarian law and institution build by nation after two world war to secure a more peaceful world . now , with two nuclear power clash and an escalation that could easily trigger a third world war , I ask the Minister to confirm the UK ' s unwavering and unconditional commitment to international law , and to condemn the indian state ' s offensive against its sovereign neighbour , which have claim the life of 26 civilian , include child . I understand the view of member across the House , but I wish to emphasise the paramount importance and urgency of settle the long - stand issue of Kashmir through multilateral mean and under the mediation of international body , such as the UN , so that last peace can finally take root in the region . as I be sure will be clear to all member , I be focused on de - escalation and regional stability . the UK continue to stand by the importance of international humanitarian law and a rule - base international order . international humanitarian law govern the action of all state towards necessity and proportionality , and we expect all of our friend , and indeed every nation state , to abide by they . I represent a large pakistani and Kashmiri community in Burton who be watch in horror and fear at the risk of further military escalation . many have family and extended family in the region , and be understandably anxious about their safety and wellbeing . what assurance can the Minister offer to my constituent that the UK be actively engage with all international partner to support de - escalation , protect wide regional stability and protect civilian life ? I recognise the concern that will be feel in my hon . friend ' s constituency , as they be feel in Lincoln and elsewhere . I can assure he and the whole House that we will use our full diplomatic weight to try to ensure de - escalation in the region . I thank the Minister for his statement . like other member , all my heart be with the innocent life that have be lose , and my condolence go to all those who grieve today . it be a salient reminder of what the pastor tell we at my baptist church in Newtownards a few week ago : there be 67 war in the world , so this really be a world at war . with news report this morning that up to five indian air force plane may have be shoot down , the escalation of this situation be clear and incredibly worrying . do the Minister believe that we can successfully intervene and negotiate peace , and what assessment of nuclear capacity have be carry out to ensure global security ? the hon . Gentleman ask important question . the UK ' s goal be de - escalation to try to ensure that we return to regional stability . the other issue between India and Pakistan — which have long be discuss in this House — be important question to which we can return , but today the focus must be on de - escalation . I thank my hon . friend for his statement and the sympathy he have show to those affect by these tragic event . resident in my constituency , which have a large pakistani and Kashmiri community , be look for leadership from the Government . they have family and friendship network in the area attack last night that be deeply affected . we all recognise how sensitive and delicate the situation be , and the need for calm thinking and dialogue . will the Minister outline in a little more detail the action that the Government be take to help reduce tension and de - escalate the risk in this situation ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for the concern he show for his constituent in Watford . as I have say , we be in regular touch with all those state that have an interest and with the two party themselves , and we will continue to be so . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . this morning we learn that Labour ' s choice of football regulator , David Kogan , make personal donation to both the Prime Minister and the Culture Secretary . we believe that the Government ' s decision not to disclose that fact when Mr Kogan ' s appointment be announce constitute a potential breach of the governance code on public appointment , and represent a clear discourtesy to both this House and the Select Committee on Culture , Media and Sport . this appointment clearly put crony over club and favour over fan , and bring major risk to english football . can you please advise I on the good way to ensure that this House be able to scrutinise such appointment and ensure that all rule be follow by the Government ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his intention to make this point of order . the Chair be not responsible for public appointment or for the pre - appointment hearing process , but the hon . Member have put his point on the record . he might also like to raise it with the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , who chair the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and who be in the Chamber . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Financial Times report this morning that the Paymaster General have confirm that the UK be look to set up a youth mobility scheme with the EU . this directly contradict the answer he give in response to a question I ask in this Chamber just 13 day ago . on that occasion , he say : " a youth mobility scheme be not part of our plan . we have always say that we will listen to sensible EU proposal , but we will not go back to freedom of movement . " — [ Official Report , 24 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 1201 . ] that be only the most recent example , because he have previously tell I that there be no plan for a youth mobility scheme on 5 December , on 6 February , on 6 March in answer to oral question , on 21 January in response to a write question , and on 29 January in a Westminster Hall debate . the FT article state that the Paymaster General " have confirm publicly for the first time that Britain be look at set up a youth mobility scheme as part of a new ' strategic partnership ' with the EU " . he can be in no doubt about the keenness of member of this House to be keep up to date on the progress of this issue . as such , why have this announcement be make to the medium , rather than to member directly ? the hon . member will be aware that that be not a matter for the Chair — we be not responsible for the statement that Government Ministers make . however , she have put her point on the record , and no doubt those on the Treasury Front Benchers be listen and will pass on her concern . bill present Victims and Courts Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Shabana Mahmood , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Yvette Cooper , Secretary Angela Rayner , Secretary Liz Kendall , Secretary John Healey and Secretary Peter Kyle , present a Bill to make provision about the experience of victim within the criminal justice system ; about the function of the Commissioner for Victims and witness ; and about procedure and the administration of criminal justice . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 233 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 233 - en ) . immigration and Visas Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Philp , support by Matt Vickers , Katie Lam , Harriet Cross , Sarah Bool , Nick Timothy , Jack Rankin and SirAshley Fox , present a Bill to make provision about the disapplication of the Human Rights Act 1998 in relation to immigration law ; to make provision about certain immigration status ; to require the Secretary of State to set an annual limit on the number of people enter the United Kingdom through non - visitor visa route ; to make provision about the removal from the United Kingdom of certain person include foreign national offender ; to create exemption from the Data Protection Act 2018 provision relate to illegal migration ; to make provision about age assessment for immigration law purpose ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May , and to be print ( Bill 234 ) . asset of community Value ( Sports Facilities ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to amend the Localism Act 2011 to provide for automatic designation of sport facility as asset of community value ; and for connected purpose . whether for fun , fitness or friendship , sport play an important role for many of we . indeed , a visitor to many of the village and town across my constituency , or across the country , who ask a local what they be most proud of in their area will often be tell that it be a local sport team . it might be the football team we play for , that we coach , that a family member compete with , or that we follow on journey from heartbreak to victory . in other part of the country , it be the same set of extreme emotion , but for local rugby league , rugby union or cricket club . People will move to the other side of the world and still ferociously support their home team — it be part of our share identity . our local sporting facility , football pitch , swimming pool and leisure centre be vital for wellbee . whether it be the swimming bath where we teach our kid to swim or a green space that be clean and safe , people should have access to all of these thing in our community . they be not just physical infrastructure ; they help ensure that we stay healthy , both physically and mentally — but more than that , they be place to come together . they provide a sense of local pride and belong . the journey of even the good professional sportspeople start at home . take Alan Shearer , who play for local boy ' team Cramlington Juniors on his path to premier league and international stardom , become Newcastle United ' s record goal scorer along the way . Cramlington Juniors have hundred of child play at all standard who know that they be tread the path of a local legend . not to be outdo , New Hartley Juniors have see three of their alumnus go on to lift the league cup . of course , the most recent be big Dan Burn — a literal giant , who score the first goal in Newcastle ' s league cup final victory this year . the thing be , Madam Deputy Speaker , you ' ll never ever beat Dan Burn : he ' s from Blyth . he cut his tooth play locally before push trollie at Asda , work his way through the league to make his England international debut this year . while today ' s Bill be not to make Dan an asset of community value in his own right , I would support any amendment to do so . the contribution of local sport club go far beyond their role in produce international sport star — although , to be clear , they do . Cramlington Town football club have step in during school holiday to ensure that local kid get a day of activity , as well as a hot meal , and Killingworth Juniors provide a space for Gaelic football to be play by the local irish community . West Allotment provide value both on and off the pitch through their fan - own model , Bates Cottages cricket club do walk cricket for those over 50 , and Concordia leisure centre take on local child with special educational need through support internship . in countless way , sport facility be make our community well , day in and day out , but in far too many community , those vital facility have slowly disappear . across the country , hundred of swimming pool , leisure centre and sport club have shut their door . this do not just leave empty building or an abandon pitch ; it leave a gap in the life of local people , force they to travel mile from home to access sport in the next town over , or simply to do without . the disappearance of sporting facility can be devastating , often leave scar in place that do not heal . there be a well way . community ownership give people the opportunity to save the local asset that we value most by bring they into community hand and run they in the interest of local people . there be already many community - own sporting facility of all kind that be not just manage to survive , but truly thriving , because they be uniquely attuned to the need and want of local people . Labour have already commit to introduce a new community right to buy , which will give community a much well chance at ownership when these asset be available , give they first right of refusal . however , to be eligible for that right , asset need first to be list as asset of community value . that be an important process , but it be also complex , inconsistent and time - consume for group of volunteer . I believe that some asset be so important to local community that they should be able to bypass that process and instead automatically be designate as asset of community value . that be why , with the Co - operative party , I be campaign to do just that , ensure that sporting facility be automatically eligible for community ownership so that they can be safeguard not just now , but for generation to come . the Bill would not just make the process significantly more straightforward for community wish to own their local sporting facility , but would send a clear message from Government that these asset — asset that keep people healthy , provide opportunity and bring people together — matter and be worth protect . most fundamentally , community ownership be about ensure that the asset that people and place value can not just be take away , that community have all the thing they deserve and that make they unique . local place make up of local asset own by local people : this can be our vision that shape community that be well , strong and truly stand the test of time . question put and agree to . order , that Emma Foody , Michael Wheeler , Chris Vince , Sally Jameson , Anneliese Midgley , Dame Karen Bradley , Ellie Chowns , Joe Morris , Gareth Snell , Andrew Pakes and Alex Sobel present the Bill . Emma Foody accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May , and to be print ( Bill 232 ) . datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : correspondence between the Joint Committee on Human Rights , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology and the Minister of State for Data Protection and Telecoms , on the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] , report to the House on 30 April , 13 April and 26 February . ] New Clause 16 - economic impact assessment " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , before the end of the period of 12 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass — ( a ) prepare and publish an assessment of the economic impact in the United Kingdom of each of the four policy option describe in section b . 4 of the copyright and AI Consultation Paper , read with relevant part of section C of that Paper ( policy option about copyright law and the training of artificial intelligence model use copyright work ) , and ( b ) lie a document contain the assessment before Parliament . ( 2 ) the document may include an assessment of the economic impact in the United Kingdom of policy option which be alternative to the option describe in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) . ( 3 ) an assessment include in the document must , among other thing , include assessment of the economic impact of each option on — ( a ) copyright owner , and ( b ) person who develop or use AI system , include the impact on copyright owner , developer and user who be individual , micro business , small business or medium - sized business . ( 4 ) in this section — ' AI system ' mean a machine - base system that , from the input it receive , can infer how to — ( a ) generate prediction , digital content , recommendation , decision or other similar output , or ( b ) influence a physical or virtual environment , with a view to achieve an explicit or implicit objective ; ' the Copyright and AI Consultation Paper ' mean the command paper ' copyright and AI : consultation ' , number CP1205 , publish on 17 December 2024 ; ' copyright owner ' have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 ; ' develop ' an AI system mean carry on an activity involve in produce the system , such as ( for example ) designing , programming , training or test the system ( and related term be to be interpret accordingly ) ; ' digital content ' mean datum which be produce and supply in digital form ; ' medium - sized business ' mean a business with at least 50 but few than 250 staff ; ' micro business ' mean a business with few than 10 staff ; ' small business ' mean a business with at least 10 but few than 50 staff ; ' use ' an AI system mean instruct an AI system to generate output or to influence an environment ( and related term be to be interpret accordingly ) . " — ( Chris Bryant . ) this new clause require the Secretary of State to prepare , publish and lie before Parliament an assessment of the economic impact in the UK of the policy option describe in section b . 4 of the government ' s recent consultation paper on Copyright and Artificial Intelligence . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 17 — report on the use of copyright work in the development of AI system . new clause 1 — age of consent for social medium datum processing — " ( 1 ) the UK GDPR be as amend as follow . ( 2 ) in article 8 of the UK GDPR ( Conditions applicable to child ' s consent in relation to information society service ) after paragraph 1 insert — ' ( 1A ) reference to 13 year old in paragraph 1 shall be read as 16 year old in the case of social networking service process personal datum for the purpose of deliver personalise content , include target advertising and algorithmically curate recommendation . ( 1b ) for the purpose of paragraph 1a " social networking service " mean any online service that — ( a ) allow user to create profile and interact publicly or privately with other user , and ( b ) facilitate the sharing of user - generate content , include text , image , or video , with a wide audience . ( 1c ) Paragraph 1b do not apply to — ( a ) educational platform and learn management system provide in recognise educational setting , where personal datum processing be solely for educational purpose . ( b ) health and well - be service , include NHS digital service , mental health support application , and crisis helpline , where personal datum processing be necessary for the provision of care and support ' " . this new clause would raise the age for process personal datum in the case of social networking service from 13 to 16 . new clause 2 — compliance with UK copyright law by operator of web crawler and general - purpose AI model — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision ( include any such provision as might be make by Act of Parliament ) , require the operator of web crawler and general - purpose artificial intelligence ( AI ) model whose service have link with the United Kingdom within the meaning of section 4 ( 5 ) of the Online Safety Act 2023 to comply with United Kingdom copyright law , include the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 , regardless of the jurisdiction in which the copyright - relevant act relate to the pre - training , development and operation of those web crawler and general - purpose AI model take place . ( 2 ) provision make under subsection ( 1 ) must apply to the entire lifecycle of a general - purpose AI model , include but not limit to — ( a ) pre - training and training , ( b ) fine tuning , ( c ) grounding and retrieval - augment generation , and ( d ) the collection of datum for the say purpose . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a draft of the statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass and the regulation be subject to the affirmative procedure . " this new clause require web crawler and general - purpose AI model with UK link to comply with UK copyright law across all stage of AI development . new clause 3 — transparency of crawler identity , purpose and segmentation — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision require operator of web crawler and general - purpose artificial intelligence ( AI ) model whose service have link with the United Kingdom within the meaning of section 4 ( 5 ) of the Online Safety Act 2023 to disclose information regard the identity of crawler use by they or by third party on their behalf , include but not limit to — ( a ) the name of the crawler , ( b ) the legal entity responsible for the crawler , ( c ) the specific purpose for which each crawler be use , ( d ) the legal entity to which operator provide datum scrape by the crawler they operate , and ( e ) a single point of contact to enable copyright owner to communicate 35 with they and to lodge complaint about the use of their copyright work . ( 2 ) the information disclose under subsection ( 1 ) must be available on an easily accessible platform and update at the same time as any change . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision require operator of web crawler and general - purpose AI model to deploy distinct crawler for different purpose , include but not limit to — ( a ) web indexing for search engine result page , ( b ) general - purpose AI model pre - training , and ( c ) retrieval - augment generation . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision require operator of web crawler and general - purpose AI model to ensure that the exclusion of a crawler by a copyright owner do not negatively impact the findability of the copyright owner ' s content in a search engine . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a draft of the statutory instrument contain regulation under this section within six month of the day on which this Act be pass and the regulation be subject to the affirmative procedure . " this new clause require operator of web crawler and AI model to disclose their identity , purpose , data - share practice , and use separate crawler for different function . new clause 4 — transparency of copyright work scrape — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision require operator of web crawler and general - purpose artificial intelligence ( AI ) model whose service have link with the United Kingdom within the meaning of section 4 ( 5 ) of the Online Safety Act 2023 to disclose information regard text and datum use in the pre - training , training and fine - tuning of general purpose AI model , include but not limit to — ( a ) the url access by crawler deploy by they or by third party on their behalf or from whom they have obtain text or datum , ( b ) the text and datum use for the pre - training , training and fine - tuning , include the type and provenance of the text and datum and the mean by which it be obtain , and ( c ) information that can be use to identify individual work , and ( d ) the timeframe of data collection . ( 2 ) the disclosure of information under subsection ( 1 ) must be update on a monthly basis in such form as the regulation may prescribe and be publish in such manner as the regulation may prescribe so as to ensure that it be accessible to copyright owner upon request . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a draft of the statutory 35 instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass and the regulation be subject to the affirmative procedure . " this new clause mandate transparency about the source and type of datum use in AI training , require monthly update accessible to copyright owner . new clause 5 — enforcement — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision require the Information Commission ( under section 114 of the Data Protection Act 2018 ) ( ' the Commissioner ' ) to monitor and secure compliance with the duty by an operator of a web crawler or general - purpose artificial intelligence ( AI ) model whose service have link with the United Kingdom within the meaning of section 4 ( 5 ) of the Online Safety Act 2023 ( ' a relevant operator ' ) , include but not limit to the follow — ( a ) the regulation must provide for the Commissioner to have the power by write notice ( an ' information notice ' ) to require a relevant operator to provide the Commissioner with information that the Commissioner reasonably require for the purpose of investigate a suspect failure to comply with the duty ; ( b ) the regulation must provide for the Commissioner to have the power by write notice ( an ' assessment notice ' ) to require and to permit the Commissioner to carry out an assessment of whether a relevant operator have comply or be comply with the duty and to require a relevant operator to do any of the act set out in section 146 ( 2 ) of the Data Protection Act 2018 ; ( c ) the regulation must provide that where the Commissioner be satisfied 15 that a relevant operator have fail , or be fail to comply with the duty , the Commissioner may give the relevant operator a write notice ( an ' enforcement notice ' ) which require it — ( i ) to take step specify in the notice , or ( ii ) to refrain from take step specify in the notice ; ( d ) the regulation must provide that where the Commissioner be satisfied that a relevant operator have fail or be fail to comply with the duty or have fail to comply with an information notice , an assessment notice or an enforcement notice , the Commissioner may , by write notice ( a ' penalty notice ' ) , require the person to pay to the Commissioner an amount in sterling specify in the notice , the maximum amount of the penalty that may be impose by a penalty notice be the ' high maximum amount ' as define in section 157 of the Data Protection Act 2018 ; and ( e ) the regulation may provide for the procedure and right of appeal 30 in relation to the giving of an information notice , an assessment notice , an enforcement notice or a penalty notice . ( 2 ) the regulation must provide that any failure to comply with the duty by a relevant operator shall be directly actionable by any copyright owner who be adversely affect by such failure , and that such copyright owner will be entitle to recover damage for any loss suffer and to injunctive relief . ( 3 ) the regulation must provide that the power of the Commissioner and the right of a copyright owner will apply in relation to a relevant operator provide a service from outside the United Kingdom ( as well as such one provide from within the United Kingdom ) . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a draft of the statutory instrument contain the regulation under this section within six month of the day on which this Act be pass and the regulation be subject to the affirmative procedure . " this new clause grant the Information Commissioner enforcement power to ensure compliance with AI and web crawler transparency rule , include penalty for breach . new clause 6 — technical solution — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must conduct a review of the technical solution that may be adopt by copyright owner and by the operator of web crawler and general - purpose artificial intelligence ( AI ) model whose service have link with the United Kingdom within the meaning of section 4 ( 5 ) of the Online Safety Act 2023 to prevent and to identify the unauthorised scraping or other unauthorised use of copyright owner ' text and datum . ( 2 ) within 18 month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must report on such technical solution and must issue guidance as to the technical solution to be adopt and other recommendation for the protection of the interest of copyright owner . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to review and report on technical measure to prevent unauthorised datum scrape by web crawler and AI model . new clause 7 — right to use non - digital verification service — " ( 1 ) this section apply when an organisation — ( a ) require an individual to use a verification service ; and ( b ) use a digital verification service for that purpose . ( 2 ) where it be reasonably practicable for an organisation to offer a non - digital method of verification , the organisation must — ( a ) make a non - digital alternative method of verification available to any individual require to use a verification service ; and ( b ) provide information about digital and non - digital method of verification to those individual before verification be require . " this new clause would create a duty upon organisation to support digital inclusion by offer non - digital verification service where practicable . new clause 8 — Data Vision and Strategy — " within six month of Royal Assent of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish a ' Data Vision and Strategy ' which outline — ( a ) the Government ' s data transformation priority for the next five year ; and ( b ) step the Government will take to ensure the digitisation of Government service . " new clause 9 — Departmental Board Appointments — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass — ( a ) government department ; ( b ) NHS England ; and ( c ) nhs trust shall appoint to their departmental board or equivalent body at least one of the following — ( i ) Chief Information Officer ; ( ii ) Chief Technology Officer ; ( iii ) Chief Digital Information Officer ; ( iv ) Service Transformation Leader ; or ( v ) equivalent postholder . ( 2 ) the person or person appoint as under subsection ( 1 ) shall provide an annual report on the progress of the department or body towards the Government ' s Data Vision and Strategy . " this new clause would require digital leader to be represent at executive level within Government department and other body . new clause 10 — datum use in Public Service Delivery Review — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , every 12 month , lie before Parliament a ' data use in Public Service Delivery Review ' . ( 2 ) the Data use in Public Service Delivery Review shall include , but be not limit to assessment of the step be take to — ( a ) improve the Government ' s use of datum in public service delivery over the previous 12 month ; ( b ) expand the use of datum to support increase and improve digital service in public service delivery ; ( c ) improve expertise and digital talent within Government department to help expand the use of datum for public service delivery ; and ( d ) facilitate and regulate for well use of datum in the delivery of public service . " this new clause would require an annual assessment by the Secretary of State to examine the step be take to facilitate and regulate the use of datum in the delivery of public service use digital and online technology . new clause 11 — access to a deceased child ' s social medium datum — " ( 1 ) where a person under 18 year of age have decease , a parent or legal guardian ( the ' requestor ' ) may request from any internet service provider ( isp ) the child ' s user datum from up to 12 month prior to the date of death . ( 2 ) the isp must provide a copy of the request datum , or direct account access , upon verification of the requestor ' s identity and relationship to the deceased person , and no court order shall be require for such disclosure . ( 3 ) ' user datum ' include all content , communication , or metadata generate by or associate with the deceased person ' s online activity , include store message and post , except where the deceased person have explicitly direct otherwise prior to death . ( 4 ) the isp may refuse or redact specific datum only where — ( a ) disclosure would unduly infringe the privacy right of another individual , ( b ) the deceased person have explicitly opt out before death , ( c ) there be a conflict court order , or ( d ) a serious risk to public safety or national security would result . ( 5 ) in provide datum under this section , the isp must comply with data protection legislation . ( 6 ) this section constitute a lawful basis for disclosure under Article 6 of the UK GDPR . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation subject to the affirmative resolution procedure — ( a ) provide guidance on verify parent or guardian status , ( b ) clarify any additional ground for refusal , and ( c ) prescribe safeguard to protect third - party confidentiality . ( 8 ) for the purpose of this section — ' internet service provider ( isp ) ' include any provider of social medium , message , or other online platform ; and ' datum protection legislation ' have the meaning give in section 51 of this Act . " this new clause would allow parent of a deceased minor to obtain that child ' s social media datum without a court order , subject to privacy safeguard for third party . new clause 12 — raise the minimum age at which user can consent to processing of personal datum — " ( 1 ) the UK GDPR be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) of this section . ( 2 ) ( 2 ) after paragraph 1 of article 8 of the UK GDPR ( Conditions applicable to child ' s consent in relation to information society service ) insert — ' ( 1A ) reference to " 13 year old " and " age of 13 year " in paragraph 1 shall be read as " 16 year old " and " age of 16 year " in the case of processing of personal datum . ( 1b ) paragraph ( 1A ) do not apply to — ( a ) platform system and service operate where the primary purpose of processing of personal datum be for the advancement of a charitable purpose as define in the Charities Act 2011 ; ( b ) publicly own platform system and service operate for the primary purpose of law enforcement , child protection , education , or healthcare ; ( c ) case in which the Secretary of State determine it be in the good interest of the child for an operator to accept the child ' s own consent . ' " this new clause would raise the age for process personal datum from 13 to 16 year old with certain exception for charitable purpose and child safety . new clause 13 — Code of practice for the use of child ' s educational datum — " ( 1 ) within 6 month of the passage of this Act , the Information Commissioner must prepare a code of practice which contain such guidance as the Information Commissioner consider appropriate on the processing of child ' s datum in connection with the provision of education . ( 2 ) Guidance under subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) all aspect of the provision of education include learning , school management , and safeguard ; ( b ) all type of school and learn setting in the development of guidance ; ( c ) the use of AI system in the provision of education ; ( d ) the impact of profiling and automated decision - making on child ' s access to education opportunity ; ( e ) child ' s consent to the way their personal datum be generate , collect , process , store and share ; ( f ) parental consent to the way their child ' s personal data be be generate , collect , process , store and share ; ( g ) the security of child ' s data ; ( h ) the exchange of information for safeguard purpose . " this new clause require the Information Commissioner to produce a code of practice for access child ' s educational datum . new clause 14 — transparency of business and customer datum use in train Artificial Intelligence model — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision require operator of general - purpose AI model to disclose upon request information about business datum and customer datum process for the purpose of pre - training , training , fine - tuning , and retrieval - augment generation in an AI model , or any other datum input to an AI model . ( 2 ) business datum and customer datum must include , but be not limit to , the whole or any substantial part of a literary , dramatic , musical or artistic work , sound recording , film or broadcast include in any text , image and datum use for the purpose set out in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) information disclosable under subsection ( 1 ) must include but be not limit to : ( i ) Digital Object Identifiers and file name ; ( ii ) detail of how the work be identify , include metadata ; ( iii ) the source from which it be scrape or otherwise obtain ; and ( iv ) the url access by crawler deploy by operator , or by third party , to obtain the datum . ( 4 ) the owner of right in any individual work identifiable in information disclose under subsection ( 1 ) must be provide upon request to the relevant operator with information as to whether and how they have comply with the law of the United Kingdom in respect to that work . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a draft of the statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass and the regulation be subject to the affirmative procedure . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to set out transparency provision require generative AI developer to provide information to enable individual and creative business to determine whether their datum , work and other subject matter have be use in training dataset . new clause 15 — complaint procedure for vulnerable individual — " ( 1 ) the Data Protection Act 2018 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) after section 165 ( 3 ) insert — ' ( 3A ) for complaint under subsection ( 2 ) , the Information Commissioner must provide appropriate complaint - handle procedure for — ( a ) victim of modern slavery , ( b ) victim of domestic abuse , ( c ) victim of gender - base violence , or ( d ) data subject otherwise in a position of vulnerability . ( 3b ) procedure under subsection ( 3A ) must include — ( a ) appropriate support for vulnerable individual ; ( b ) provision of specialised officer for sensitive case ; ( c ) signpost to support service ; ( d ) provision of a helpline ; ( e ) de - escalation protocol . ' ( 3 ) after section 166 ( 1 ) ( c ) insert — ' ( d ) fail to investigate a complaint appropriately or take adequate action to remedy finding of inadequacy . ' ( 4 ) after section 166 ( 2 ) ( b ) , insert — ' ( c ) to use formal power as appropriate to investigate a complaint and to remedy any finding of inadequacy , unless the request from the data subject be manifestly unfounded or excessive . ' " this new clause would require the Information Commission to introduce a statutory complaint procedure for individual in a position of vulnerability and new ground of appeal to an Information Tribunal . new clause 18 — report on the introduction of a public interest test for allow access to NHS datum by third - party and company — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must within six month of the passing of this Act — ( a ) prepare and publish a report examine the need for a specific statutory public interest test to determine and safeguard access to NHS datum by third - party and company . ( b ) within 28 day of a report be lay under subsection ( 1 ) the Government must schedule a debate and votable motion on the finding of the report in each House . ( 2 ) the report must consider — ( a ) whether and in what situation it would be necessary , proportionate and lawful to share NHS datum with third - party and company when the interest and risk to both the individual and / or public be consider . ( b ) when it would be in the public interest and in the good interest of patient and the NHS to allow access by third - party and company to NHS datum in relation to the provision of health care service and for promotion of health . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to produce a report on the introduction of a public interest test for allow access to NHS datum by third - party and company and then to schedule a debate on it in each House . new clause 19 — Secretary of State ' s duty to review the age of consent for datum processing under the UK GDPR — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of Royal Assent of this Act , have conduct a review and publish a report into the operation of article 8 ( condition applicable to child ' s consent in relation to information society service ) of the UK GDPR in relation to the datum process by social medium platform of child under the age of 16 . ( 2 ) as part of this review , the Secretary of State must consider — ( a ) the desirability of increase the digital age of consent under the UK GDPR from 13 to 16 , take into account the available evidence in relation to the impact of social medium platform on the educational , social and emotional development of child ; and ( b ) the viability of increase the digital age of consent under Article 8 of the UK GDPR in relation to specific social medium platform which be show by the evidence to be unsuitable for use by child under the age of 16 . ( 3 ) within six month of the publication of the report under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must lay a plan before Parliament for raise the digital age of consent to 16 through amendment to article 8 GDPR , unless the review conclude that such change be unnecessary . " new clause 20 — duty of the Secretary of State in relation to the use by web - crawler and artificial intelligence model of creative content — " the Secretary of State must — ( a ) by 16 September 2025 , issue a statement , by way of a copyright notice issue by the Intellectual Property Office or otherwise , in relation to the application of the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 to activity conduct by web - crawler or artificial intelligence model which may infringe the copyright attach to creative work ; ( b ) by 16 September 2025 , lie before Parliament a report which include a plan to help ensure proportionate and effective measure for transparency in the use of copyright material in training , refining , tuning and generative activity in AI ; ( c ) by 16 September 2025 , lie before Parliament a report which include a plan to reduce barrier to market entry for start - up and small AI enterprise on use of and access to datum ; ( d ) by 1 July 2026 , publish a technological standard for a machine - readable digital watermark for the purpose of identify licensed content and relevant information associate with the licence . " new clause 21 — direction to public authority on recording of sex datum — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passage of this Act , issue regulation relate to the code of practice set out in section 49 of this Act which require public authority to — ( a ) collect , process and retain sex datum only where it be lawful to do so in accordance with data protection legislation ; ( b ) request and record sex datum accurately , in every circumstance where sex datum be collect , in accordance with follow category term and definition — ( i ) ' sex ' mean male or female only base on ' sex at birth ' , ' natal sex ' or ' biological sex ' ( these term carry the same meaning and capable of be use interchangeably ) ; and , ( ii ) in addition , where it be lawful to do so in accordance with data protection legislation and the Gender Recognition Act 2004 , ' acquire Gender ' mean male or female only , as record on a gender recognition certificate issue in accordance with the Gender Recognition Act 2004 ; ( c ) have update relevant organisation guidance to stipulate that , where sex datum be collect , this must be do in accordance with the definition set out by subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) within three month of these regulation come into force ; ( d ) have conduct a review of the accuracy of datum hold in relation to the sex of datum subject to ensure that the data be accurate in record sex at birth and , where relevant and collect lawfully , acquire gender as record on a gender recognition certificate within 12 month of these regulation come into force ; ( e ) have take every reasonable step to ensure that any datum hold in relation to the sex and , where relevant and collect lawfully , acquire gender as record on a gender recognition certificate of a data subject that be find to be inaccurate be rectify or erase within 18 month of these regulation come into force ; and ( f ) have produce and submit to the Secretary of State a report set out the finding of its review in relation to the matter set out by subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) and , where relevant , a description of the step take to ensure that the datum hold by the relevant public authority be accurate within the definition set out subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) with 18 month of these regulation come into force . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may , on receipt of a report in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) ( f ) instruct a public authority to take any further remedial step within a specify timeframe reasonably necessary to ensure the accuracy of the sex and acquire gender datum hold by the relevant public authority . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within one month of the passage of this Act , establish and maintain a register of public authority approve to act as source of datum relate to the attribute of sex for person provide digital verification service . ( 4 ) the register in subsection ( 3 ) must be publish on the website of the Office for Digital Identities & Attributes or any successor body . ( 5 ) until such time as a public authority be add to the register under subsection ( 3 ) , person provide digital verification service may only obtain datum on the sex of an individual request the provision of digital verification service from the record of birth hold by the General Register Office in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) . ( 6 ) information supply by the General Register Office pursuant to subsection ( 5 ) must specify sex as record at birth , as well as any subsequent correction to the register in the field mark ' sex ' . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may , from time to time , add public authority to the register as under subsection ( 3 ) only upon be satisfied on the basis of a report issue under subsection ( 1 ) ( f ) , or satisfaction of such further step require by the Secretary of State under subsection ( 2 ) that the datum hold by the relevant public authority in relation to sex and , where relevant , acquire gender as record on a gender recognition certificate , as define in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , be accurate . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to issue regulation relate to the code of practice in section 49 require public authority to record sex datum in line with these regulation when datum be collect . this clause be link to amendment 39 and 40 . new clause 22 — recording of ethnicity datum for the purpose of public service delivery — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make regulation which make provision for the collection of individual ethnicity datum in the process of public service delivery and associate datum collection . ( 2 ) the regulation set out by subsection ( 1 ) must make provision for ethnic classification to include jewish and sikh category . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament a draft of the statutory instrument contain regulation under this section within six month of the day on which this Act be pass which will be subject to the affirmative procedure . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to make statutory provision for individual ethnicity datum to be collect in the process of public service delivery . new clause 23 — recording of ethnicity datum on the Register of Births and death — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make regulation which make provision for the collection of individual ethnicity datum during birth and death registration . ( 2 ) the regulation set out by subsection ( 1 ) must make provision for ethnic classification to include jewish and sikh category . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament a draft of the statutory instrument contain regulation under this section within six month of the day on which this Act be pass which will be subject to the affirmative procedure . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to make statutory provision for individual ethnicity datum to be able to be collect during birth and death registration . government amendment 11 to 32 . amendment 39 , in clause 45 , page 42 , line 30 , at the beginning insert — " save in respect of datum relate to sex , " . this amendment be consequential on NC21 . amendment 40 , page 43 , line 15 , at end insert — " " gender recognition certificate " mean a gender recognition certificate issue in accordance with the Gender Recognition Act 2004 . " this amendment be consequential on NC21 . government amendment 1 to 8 . amendment 37 , in clause 67 , page 75 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) for the purpose of paragraph 2 , ' scientific research ' mean creative and systematic work undertake in order to increase the stock of knowledge , include knowledge of humankind , culture and society , and to devise new application of available knowledge . ( 2B ) to meet the reasonableness test in paragraph 2 , the activity be describe as scientific research must be conduct accord to appropriate ethical , legal and professional framework , obligation and standard . " this amendment incorporate clarification to help reduce potential misuse of the scientific research exception . the first be a definition of scientific research base on the Frascati Manual . the second be a requirement that research be conduct in line with framework and standard in the UKRI Code of Practice for Research . Amendment 41 , in clause 80 , page 95 , line 19 , at end insert — " 3 . for the purpose of paragraph 1 ( a ) , a human ' s involvement be only meaningful if they be a natural person with the necessary competence , authority and capacity to understand , challenge and alter the decision . " see explanatory statement for Amendment 44 . amendment 45 , page 96 , line 2 , at end insert — " 5 . consent in accordance with paragraph 2 can not be give by person under the age of 18 where — ( a ) the automate decision - making be likely to produce legal or similarly significant effect on the child , or ( b ) the processing involve the profiling of a child to determine access to essential service , education , or other significant opportunity . 6 . the controller shall not be oblige to maintain , acquire or process additional information in order to identify the age of a data subject for the sole purpose of comply with this Regulation . 7 . a significant decision may not be take base solely on automate processing , if the datum subject be a child or may be a child unless the provider be satisfied that the decision be in , and compatible with , the good interest of a child , take into account their right and development stage , authorise by law to which the controller be subject , and after suitable measure to safeguard the datum subject ' s right and freedom and legitimate interest be make publicly available . 8 . profiling or solely automate processing of child ' s datum may not occur for the purpose of targeted advertising or behavioural analysis . " this amendment ensure that automate decision - making can not take place in circumstance where it would affect a child ' s access to significant opportunity or would not be in their good interest , as well as protection against practice such as behavioural analysis . amendment 46 , page 96 , leave out line 13 to 19 and insert — " ( a ) communicate to the datum subject before and after the decision be take the fact that automate decision - making be involve in the decision , the extent of any human involvement , and the availability of safeguard under this article ; ( b ) provide the datum subject with information about decision describe in paragraph 1 take in relation to the datum subject include meaningful information about the logic involve , the significance and the envisage consequence of such processing for the data subject , and a personalised explanation for the decision ; ( c ) enable the datum subject to make representation about such decision ; ( d ) enable the datum subject to obtain human intervention on the part of the controller in relation to such decision ; ( e ) enable the datum subject to contest such decision . 3 . for the purpose of paragraph 2 ( b ) , a personalised explanation must — ( a ) be clear , concise and in plain language of the datum subject ' s choice in a readily available format ; ( b ) be understandable , and assume limited technical knowledge of algorithmic system ; ( c ) address the reason for the decision and how the decision affect the individual personally , which must include — ( i ) the input , include any personal datum ; ( ii ) parameter that be likely to have influence or be decisive to decision or a counterfactual of what change would have result in a more favourable outcome ; ( iii ) the source of parameter and input ; ( d ) be available free of charge and conveniently accessible to the data subject , free of deceptive design pattern . 4 . where the safeguard apply after a decision be make , the controller must give effect to datum subject request as soon as reasonably practicable and within one month of the request . 5 . the controller must ensure the safeguard be fully in place and complete a data protection impact assessment under Article 35 before a decision under Article 22a be take , document their implementation of the safeguard in addition to the requirement of that article . 6 . the controller must publish detail of their implementation of the safeguard and how datum subject can make use of they . " this amendment would ensure that data subject be inform of automate decision make about they in a timely way , and that that explanation be personalise to enable they to understand why it be make . it also ensure processor be incentivise to put the safeguard in place before commence automate decision - making . amendment 42 , page 96 , line 23 , after " article 22a ( 1 ) ( a ) , " insert " and subject to article 22a ( 3 ) " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 44 . amendment 43 , page 97 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) to qualify as meaningful human involvement , the review must be perform by a person with the necessary competence , training , authority to alter the decision and analytical understanding of the datum . " see explanatory statement for Amendment 44 . amendment 44 , page 98 , line 31 , after " and 50C ( 3 ) ( c ) , " insert " and subject to 50a ( 3 ) " . this amendment and Amendments 41 , 42 and 43 would make clear that in the context of new Article 22a of the UK GDPR , for human involvement to be consider as meaningful , the review must be carry out by a competent person who be empower to change the decision in practice . amendment 9 , in clause 81 , page 100 , line 7 , at end insert — " age assurance 1c . information society service which be likely to be access by child must use highly effective age verification or age estimation measure for the purpose of deliver on child ' s high protection matter . " this amendment require service which be likely to be access by child to use highly effective age verification measure . amendment 38 , in clause 86 , page 103 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) where personal datum be process for the purpose of scientific research under section 87 ( 4 ) of the 2018 Act ( ' reuse ' ) , the processor or controller must publish detail of the datum source use . ( 2b ) these detail must as a minimum include a description of the scientific research , the provenance and method of acquisition of the personal datum be reuse , the original lawful basis for processing , the number of data subject affect , and whether the data subject have be notify of the reuse . ( 2C ) the processor or controller must notify the Information Commission when process datum for the purpose of scientific research under section 87 ( 4 ) of the 2018 Act with the same detail . " this amendment ensure transparency for the use of scientific research exemption by require those reuse personal datum to publish detail of that reuse and notify the Information Commission of that reuse . government amendment 33 and 34 . amendment 10 , in schedule 7 , page 201 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 1b ) a third country can not be consider adequate or capable of provide appropriate safeguard by any authority where there exist no credible mean to enforce datum subject right or obtain legal remedy . ( 1C ) for the purpose of paragraph 1a , the Secretary of State must make a determination as to whether credible mean be present in a third country . ( 1d ) in make a determination regard credible mean , the Secretary of State must have due regard to the view of the Information Commissioner . ( 1E ) credible mean do not exist where the Secretary of State consider that any of the follow be true : ( a ) judicial protection of person whose personal datum be transfer to that third country be insufficient ; ( b ) effective administrative and judicial redress be not present ; ( c ) effective judicial review mechanism do not exist ; and ( d ) there be no statutory right to effective legal remedy for datum subject . " the amendment would prohibit personal datum transfer to country where datum subject right can not be adequately uphold and prohibit private entity from use contract to give the impression that datum security exist . government amendment 35 and 36 . early I appear as a Department for Culture , Media and Sport Minister , and now I appear as a Department for Science , Innovation and Technology Minister . I hate to embarrass Members , but they will get two bout of I today . I will start with the Government amendment , and then once I have hear the argument from member advance other amendment , I will speak to those later in the debate . if I do not cover subject in this initial speech , I will get back to they later . rise — the right hon . Gentleman be entice I . I hope he will be nice to I than the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) be early . I be sure that the Chair of the Committee and I will always be nice to Minister . I be only go to say that I have experience the slight schizophrenia he have refer to in hold role in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and in DCMS at the same time . although he be appear as a DSIT Minister this afternoon , can he assure the House that he will not forget his responsibility as a DCMS Minister for the creative industry ? I model myself in all thing on the right hon . Gentleman , apart from the fact that I leave the Tory party many year ago , and it be about time that he come over to the Labour Benches . it be not too late . no , the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) could come over here ; I be not go back over there . the point I be go to make be that I be fully cognisant of my duty . I think the right hon . Gentleman be refer to the artificial intelligence copyright issue that we will be address fairly shortly . I like the fact that I be in both Departments , because it mean I can bring the knowledge of both sector to bear on each other . if we be lucky , and if we work hard at it , I hope that I will be able to persuade he that we can come to a win - win solution . as he know , this be not easy . when I have my first meeting with he after I be appoint in the post , he say , " this be not an easy area to resolve . " I hope I be not break a confidence — but he be smile . I have a large number of topic to cover , and I be conscious that many member will think this be the datum Bill , when we will actually be deal with an awful lot of subject this afternoon that do not feel as if they have anything to do with the measure in the original version bring forward by the right hon . Gentleman and previously . I hope that member will bear with I . I intend to address the Government ' s amendment as follow : first , AI and copyright ; secondly , deepfake ; thirdly , the national underground asset register ; and then smart datum and other minor and technical amendment . I will start with AI and intellectual property . as member know , it be never the Government ' s intention to legislate on that issue at all in this Bill . it be a complex and important issue , which be why we have consult on a package of measure . that consultation have more than 11 , 500 response , which we be still consider . several hon . member have say to I , " will you remove the opt - out clause in the Bill ? " I need to make it absolutely clear that no such opt - out clause be in the Bill . we never lay one in the Bill , so there be not an opt - out clause to remove . as member will also know , the Lords insert a set of amendment on AI and copyright , which we remove in Committee . they reappear on the amendment paper today as new clause 2 to 6 , table by the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) . a similar measure have be table as new clause 14 by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . we oppose all these new clause for several reason . first , they pre - empt the result of the consultation . it must surely be well to legislate on this complex subject in the round rather than piecemeal . the amendment be also unworkable . new clause 5 , for instance , would make the Information Commissioner the regulator of transparency requirement , but the Information Commissioner ' s Office have neither the skill nor the resource to perform that function . obviously , transparency requirement without an effective enforcement mechanism be bad than useless , which mean the other clause on transparency be also unworkable in this context . the new clause also fail to address some of the most important question in this area . they effectively legislate piecemeal rather than in the round . whenever Parliament have do that in the past , it have rue the day , and I think the same be true today . do the Minister not understand the urgency ? Generative AI be ingest our whole creative catalogue as we speak . we need something in place now . we can not wait a year for report or three year for legislation ; we need action now . do he not understand that something need to be bring forward here today ? these amendment offer that . I do not think the amendment do offer that , because I do not think they work . we need to legislate in the round , as I say , and not piecemeal . I point out to the hon . member that there be something of a two - edge sword here . I have be repeatedly tell — and I understand the point — that there be no legal uncertainty as to the copyright status of work that be be scrape . at the same time , people be say they want legislative change . those two thing can not be true at the same time . I be determined to get we to a well place on this , as I will perhaps explain in a couple of moment . I think there be an intention to push new clause 2 to a vote later , which I urge hon . member not to do , although I do not always get my way . new clause 2 basically say that people should comply with the law . I mean , it be a simple fact : people should comply with the law . we can not legislate to tell people that they should comply with the law ; the law be the law . if none of these amendment be pass today , the law will remain as it be today and copyright law in the UK will be robust and clear . for the absolute avoidance of doubt , some people have talk to I about text and datum mining exception , which , as member will know , exist , for instance , in the European Union . there be a text and datum mining exception already in UK law . it be introduce in 2014 via a statutory instrument , which add section 29a to the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 . however , it be an exception for the sole purpose of non - commercial research . I think that that be absolutely clear in law , and I do not think it need any clarifying . I understand the point that the Minister be make about exist copyright law , but , as he have say , the Government open a consultation that have , for many of our constituent who work in the creative industry , prefigure a substantial change in copyright when it come to AI . do he see the merit that many of we see in make it clear that the principle behind copyright from which our creative constituent should be able to benefit , and which should protect their own work , be what be at stake here ? have say that the exist law stand , will he at least make a commitment that that be what the Government want as well ? I think he can understand why people be concern , and the source of the concern that have merit these amendment . I completely understand and , in large measure , share those concern . we want to ensure , in this fast - change world , that the creative industry in the United Kingdom could be remunerate for the work they have produce . we be not in the business of give away other people ' s work to third party for nothing : that would be to sell our birthright for a mess of pottage , to use a term from an old translation of the Bible , and we be determined not to do it . as my hon . friend — and several other Members — will have hear I say many time before , we would only proceed with the package of measure include in the consultation if we believe that we be advance the cause of the creative industry in the UK , rather than put they in danger or legal peril . I think that some of the thing I will say in a moment will be of assistance . we want to reach a point at which it be easy for the creative industry — whether they be large business with deep pocket and able to use lawyer , or very small individual photographer or painter — to assert and protect their right , and to say , if they wish , " no , you can not scrape my material for the purpose of large language model learning , unless you remunerate I . " that remuneration might happen via a collective licensing scheme , or it might happen individually . either way , we want to get to more licensing rather than less . as , again , I have say several time at this Dispatch Box , we have look at what have happen in the European Union and what be happen in the United States of America , and we believe that although the EU say that its package be design to deliver more licensing , it have not lead to more licensing or to more remuneration of the creative industry , and we want to avoid that pitfall . as I have say , I take the concern of the creative industry seriously , both as a DSIT Minister and as a DCMS Minister ; of course I do . I agree — we , the Government , agree — that transparency be key . we want to see more licensing of content . we believe that the UK be a creative content superpower , and we want UK AI company to flourish on the basis of high - quality datum . I have speak to a fair number of publishing company , in particular UK company such as Taylor & Francis , a largely academic publisher . as member will know , the UK be the large exporter of book in the world . those company be deliberately try to get all their material license to AI company , for two reason : first , they want to be remunerate for the work that they have provide , and secondly , just as importantly , they want AI to come up with good answer . if you put dirty water into a pipe , dirty water will come out at the other end , and if you put good datum into AI , good answer will come out of AI . that be an important part of why we want to ensure that we have strong AI base on high - quality datum , and much of that be premium content from our creative industry . we also agree that the Government must keep an open mind , and must take full account of the economic evidence . that be why we have table new clause 16 and 17 , which set out bind commitment to assess the impact of any and all proposal and to consider and report on the key area raise in debate . that include any and all of the option that be involve in the consultation that we publish after the amendment be table in the House of Lords . as the Government take forward the commitment make by these amendment , they will consider all potential policy option . I must emphasise that the Government have not prejudge the outcome of the consultation , and take the need to consider and reflect on the good approach for all party very seriously . member will , I be sure , have read new clause 17 ; it require the Government to report on four matter . first , there be the issue of technical solution that would enable copyright owner to control whether their copyright work could be use to develop AI . will the Minister give way ? will the hon . Lady just let I finish this paragraph , because it might read well in Hansard ? actually , I have now add that bit , so it be ruin , and I might as well give way to she . the question of technical solution be very important , but my challenge be this . I have speak to representative of some of the big tech company who be push for that , and who be say that it be hard for they to do it at scale but creative can do it . why can the tech company not be lead on an opt - in system for creative ? let I hand that back to the Minister . I should point out that the hon . Lady , as the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party , will be speak very shortly . I know , but she be wonderful , so we will let she — or you will let she , Madam Deputy Speaker . this be a really important point . surely it can not be impossible for we to find a technical solution . People who can develop AI — and they be now develop AI on their laptop , especially follow DeepSeek ; they do not need massive computer — should be able to develop a very simple system , as I have say before , whereby all creative who be copyright owner be able to assert their right , very simply , across all platform , without any great exertion . that be what I want to achieve . the hon . Lady be quite right to raise that question , so what be we go to do next ? we say in new clause 17 that we will report in 12 month ' time . if we be to report in 12 month ' time that we have do absolutely nothing , I think that everyone would rightly rant and rave at we . it be our intention that the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology and the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport will together co - ordinate a special taskforce specifically to consider how we can facilitate , incentivise and enable the development of these technical solution . I suspect that , if we can get there , opt - out will look remarkably like opt - in . the second matter on which new clause 17 require we to report be access to datum for AI developer to train AI system in the UK , the third be transparency , and the fourth relate to measure to facilitate the licensing of copyright work for AI training . the publication will be require within 12 month of Royal Assent , and will of course be lay before Parliament . new clause 16 supplement these report with a full economic impact assessment that will go far than previous assessment , and will present an analysis of the economic impact of a range of policy option available in this context , support by the additional evidence that the Government have receive in response to their consultation . the reporting requirement be important : they mean that we will have to engage with each of these issue apace and in depth , and we will do that . we be determined to find and incentivise technical solution that support our objective , and I believe that if we do that we can be a world leader . as I say early , the two Secretaries of State will convene work group to tackle each of these issue . I have hear people say that we be legislate to water down copyright , but that be simply not true . if member support the Government ' s position today , the UK ' s copyright law will remain precisely as robust tomorrow as it be today . for activity in the UK , people will , in law , only be able to use copyright material if they be permit and license to do so or if a copyright exception allow it , such as the exist copyright exception for education , public library and non - commercial work . will the Minister give way ? I think that that might engender something . it be a pleasure to serve on the Bill Committee . may I take up the point about timeline in the new clause ? the Minister have say that the report must be make before the end of a period of 12 month , but , as other member have say , there be a great deal of concern about what may happen . do he expect this to take a year , or might it possible to work fast so that more reassurance can be give ? I accept that there will need to be further consultation , and examination of the response . obviously , a series of different thing will happen . we will have to respond to the consultation at some point , and I guess that the Culture , Media and Sport Committee will want to respond as well . in the meantime , we will be run a working group . I be very happy to keep the House update on how that work progress , but I do not want to commit to produce something within 12 month without be absolutely certain that I can do so . if new clause 17 be carry today , it will be a requirement by law that we produce a response within 12 month . I fully get the point about urgency . as the right hon . member for Maldon know well , this issue have be hang around for a considerable period of time . we in the UK have perhaps be a little slow , but I want to make sure that we get it right , rather than legislate piecemeal . I apologise if I have miss this , but have the Minister outline when the Government will respond to the consultation ? no , I have not — my hon . friend have not miss anything . obviously , we want to respond as soon as possible , but we have 11 , 500 consultation response to consider . some issue have hardly be refer to in the public debate on this matter . one issue that Equity be understandably pursue , and that we refer to in the consultation , be about personality right , which exist in some state in the United States of America . that be quite complicated to legislate for , which be one of the reason we have consult on it . we have also consult on the question — again , nobody have refer to this in the public debate — of whether a work that be generate by AI have any copyright attach to it . if so , who own that copyright ? it be slightly moot in british law . one could argue that british copyright law have always presume that copyright apply only where a work be the expression of an individual , so it do not apply to AI - generate material , but there be other element . section 9 ( 3 ) of the copyright , Designs and Patent Act 1988 say that machine - generate material can have copyright attach to it , which be one of the other issue that we want to address . as I say early , one of the issue to which nobody have yet come up with an answer be how we will provide proper enforcement of whatever transparency requirement we propose . I be conscious that in discussion I have have with our european counterpart , include my spanish counterpart and member of the European Commission , there have be some concern about precisely what they will do by virtue of transparency . this issue be make more complicated by the advent of DeepSeek — for a whole series of different reason , which I be happy to explain at some other point — but we need to end up with a transparency system that be both effective and proportionate . simply dump a list of million and million of url that have be visit on the internet be neither effective nor proportionate , so we will have to come up with something . do the Minister envisage that any model of enforcement around transparency will be compulsory and not a voluntary system ? by its nature , enforcement would have to be compulsory , but we be run ahead of ourselves , because nobody have actually come up with a system that have an enforcement mechanism . who would do it ? what body would do it ? how would that body be resource ? that be one of the thing that we need to look into , and it be one of the element of the consultation . I will move on to another subject : the issue of purport intimate image . government amendment 34 deal with the creation of intimate image or deepfake . early in the Bill ' s passage , my colleague Lord Ponsonby add a new offence of create purport intimate image without consent or reasonable belief in consent , and I be sure all hon . member agree that this be a really important addition . in Committee , we introduce the offence of request the creation of purport image without consent or reasonable belief in consent , as hon . member who be on the Public Bill Committee with I will know . it seem axiomatic that the court should have the power to deprive offender of the image and anything contain it that relate or be connect to the offence . this be already the case for the create offence , which be introduce in the House of Lords . government amendment 34 amend the sentencing code to achieve that for the request offence . it ensure that the exist regime of court power to deprive offender of property also apply to image and device contain the image that relate to the request offence . we have table a series of amendment to clause 56 to 59 to reflect our discussion with the devolved government on the national underground asset register . the amendment will require that the Secretary of State to obtain the consent of Welsh Ministers and the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland , rather than merely consult they , before make regulation in relation to the provision . Co - operation with the devolve government have be consistent and constructive throughout the Bill ' s passage . we have secure legislative consent from Scotland , and the Senedd in Wales vote in favour of grant the Bill legislative consent only yesterday . we regret that for procedural reason , the process with Northern Ireland have not yet reach the stage of legislative consent . we be , however , work constructively with the Department of Finance to ensure that we can make progress as quickly as possible . we continue to work closely with the Northern Ireland Executive to secure legislative consent , and to ensure that citizen and business of Northern Ireland feel the full benefit of the Bill . before I finish , I turn to our amendment to help ensure that smart data scheme can function optimally , and that part 1 of the Bill be as clear as possible . amendment to fee charging under clause 11 and 15 follow extensive stakeholder engagement , and will maximise the commercial viability of smart datum system by enable regulation to make tailor provision on fee charging within each smart datum scheme . for example , amendment 19 to 21 enable the fee charge to exceed expense where appropriate . this be necessary to fulfil the commitment in the national payment vision to establish a long - term regulatory framework for open banking . outside smart datum , Government amendment 35 " add reference to investigate crime to exist reference in the Data Protection Act 2018 to detect or prevent crime " , which will bring these reference into line with other part of the legislation . I call the shadow Minister . it be a privilege to respond to this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s official Opposition , and to speak to the new clause and amendment . this be an ambitious piece of legislation , which will enable we to harness datum — the currency of our digital age — and use it in a way that drive the economy and enhance the delivery of public service . since its original inception under the Conservatives in the last Parliament , the Bill have also become the platform for tackle some of the most pressing social and technological issue of our time . many of these be reflect in the amendment to the Bill , which be the subject of debate today . I start with new clause 20 . how do we regulate the interaction of AI model with creative work ? I pay tribute to the work of many member on both side of this House , and member of the other place , who have passionately raise creative ' concern and the risk pose to their livelihood by AI model . conservative Members be clear that this be not a zero - sum game . our fantastic creative and tech industry have the potential to turbocharge economic growth , and the last government rightly support they . the creative and technology sector need and deserve certainty , which provide the foundation for investment and growth . new clause 20 would achieve certainty by require the Government to publish a series of plan on the transparency of AI model ' use of copyright work , remove market barrier for small AI market entrant and digital watermarking and , most important of all , a clear restatement of the application of copyright law to AI - modelling activity . I can not help but have a sense of d é j à vu in relation to Government new clause 17 : we be glad that the Government have act on several of the action we call for in Committee , but once again they have choose pr over effective policy . amid all the spin , the Government have in effect announce a plan to respond to their own consultation — how innovative ! what be starkly miss from the Government new clause be a commitment to make it clear that copyright law apply to the use of creative content by AI model , which be the primary concern raise with I by industry representative . the Government have create uncertainty about the application of copyright law to AI modelling through their ham - fiste consultation . so I offer the Minister another opportunity : will he formally confirm the application of copyright law to protect the use of creative work by AI , and will he provide legal certainty and send a strong signal to our creative industry that they will not be ask to pay the price for AI growth ? yes . I thank the Minister for make that statement at the Dispatch Box . as he know , we need to have that formally , in writing , as a statement from the Government to make it absolutely clear , give that the consultation have muddy the water . I be sorry , but I say that in my speech , and I have say it several time in several debate previously . I would therefore be grateful if the Minister say why there remain uncertainty among creative about the application of copyright in this area . be that not why we need to move this forward ? I now turn to Government amendment 34 and other . I congratulate my noble Friend Baroness Owen on the tremendous work she have do in ensure that clause criminalise the creation of and request for sexually explicit deepfake image have make it into the Bill . I also thank the Government for the constructive approach they be now take in this area . I should have say early that , as the shadow Minister know , in Committee we change the clause on " solicit " to one on " request " such an image , because in certain circumstance solicit may require the exchange of money . that be why we now have the request offence . I thank the Minister for his clarification and reiteration of that point , and again for his work with colleague to take forward the issue , on which I think we be in unison across the House . new clause 21 be on direction to public authority on recording of sex datum . one do not need to be a doctor to know that data accuracy be critical , particularly when it come to health , research or the provision of tailor service base on protect characteristic such as sex or age . the accuracy of datum must be at the heart of this Bill , and nowhere have this be more high - profile or important than in the debate over the collection and use of sex and gender datum . I thank the charity Sex Matters and the noble Lords Arbuthnot and Lucas for the work they have do to highlight the need for accurate datum and its relevance for the digital verification system propose in the Bill . the recent decision by the Supreme Court that " sex " in the Equality Act 2010 refer to biological sex at birth , regardless of whether someone hold a gender recognition certificate or identifie as of a different gender , have already leave many tran people feel hurt and unseen . do the shadow Minister agree with I that any ID and digital verification service must consider trans people , not risk make they more likely to feel that their country be forget who they be ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention , and I will shortly come on to the impact on all people of the decision of the Supreme Court . our new clause ' s focus and scope be simple . the Supreme Court ruling make it clear that public body must collect datum on biological sex to comply with their duty under the Equality Act . the new clause ensure that this data be record and use correctly in accordance with the law . this be about datum accuracy , not ideology . new clause 21 be base in part on the work of Professor Alice Sullivan , who conduct a very important review , with deeply concern finding on inaccurate data collection and the conflation of gender identity with biological sex datum . she find people miss off health screening , risk to research integrity , inaccurate policing record and management through the criminal justice system , and many other concern . these concern present risk to everyone , irrespective of biological sex , gender identity or acquire gender . Trans people , like everyone else , need health screening base on their biological sex . Trans people need protect from sexual predator , too , and they have the right to dignity and respect . the Sullivan report show beyond doubt that the concern of the last Government and the current Leader of the Opposition be entirely justify . the Government have have Professor Sullivan ' s report since September last year , but the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology have still not make a formal statement about it or address the concern raise , which be even more surprising give its relevance to this Bill . the correction of public authority datum on sex be necessary and urgent , but it be make even more critical by the implementation of the digital verification service in the Bill . I appreciate that the shadow Minister be make an important point on the Sullivan review and the Supreme Court judgment , but there be conversation in Government and with Labour member to ensure that the Supreme Court judgment and the Sullivan review be implement properly across all Departments , and I hope to work with the Government on that . I thank the hon . member for her intervention , and for all the work that she and colleague on both side of the House be do in this area . I hope that the finding of the Sullivan report be implement as soon as possible , and part of that implementation would be make possible if member across the House support our new clause . for the digital verification service to be bring in , it be important that the datum use to inform they be accurate and correct . digital verification could be use to access single - sex service , so it need to be correct , and if sex and gender datum be conflate , as we know they be in many dataset , a failure to act will bring in self - ID by the back door . to be clear , that have never be the legal position in the UK , and it would conflict with the ruling of the Supreme Court . our new clause 21 be simple and straightforward . it be about the accurate collection and use of sex datum , and rule to ensure that datum be of the right standard when use in digital verification service so that single - sex service be not undermine . new clause 19 be on the Secretary of State ' s duty to review the age of consent for datum processing under the UK GDPR . what can or should child be permit to consent to when use or sign up to online platform and social medium ? how do we ensure child be protect , and how do we prevent harm from the use of inappropriate social medium itself , separate from the content provide ? how do we help our child in a world where social medium can import the school , the playground , the change room , the influencer , the stranger , the groomer , the radical and the hostile state actor all into the family home ? our child be the first generation grow up in the digital world , and they be expose to information and weaponise algorithm on a scale that simply do not exist for their parent . in government , we take measure to improve protection and regulate harmful content online , and I be delighted to see those measure now come into force . however , there be increase evidence that exposure to inappropriate social medium platform be cause harm , and child as young as 13 may not be able to regulate and process this exposure to such site in a safe and proportionate way . I be sure every Member across the House will have be contact by parent concern about the impact of social medium on their child , and we recognise that this be a challenging area to regulate . how do we define and target risky and inappropriate social medium platform , and ensure that education and health tech — or , indeed , close direct messaging service — do not fall within scope ? how effective be our provision already , and can age verification be make to work for under - 16 ? what id be available to use ? what will the impact of the Online Safety Act 2023 be now that it be come into force ? what be the lesson from its implementation , and where do it need strengthen ? finally , how do we support parent and teacher in educate and guide child so they be prepared to enter the digital world at whatever age they choose and be able to do so ? the Government must take action to ensure appropriate safeguard be in place for our child , not through outright ban or blanket restriction but with an evidence - base approach that take into account the recent legal change and need for effective enforcement , include age verification for under - 16 . too often in this place we focus on make more thing illegal rather than on the reason for lack of enforcement in the first place . there be no point in immediate restriction if they can not be implement . I agree with all the point the shadow Minister be make about keep our child safe online , so why do new clause 19 only commit to a review of the digital age of datum consent and raise the age from 13 to 16 for when parental consent be no long require ? why do he not support the Liberal Democrats ' new clause 1 that would start to implement this change ? we can still , through implementation , do all the thing the hon . Gentleman propose to do , so why the delay ? there be a few issue with new clause 1 . one be the scope in term of the definition of network service and ensure platform such as WhatsApp be not capture within it . look at new clause 19 , there be challenge to implement in this area . there be no point in click our finger and say , " let ' s change the age of digital consent , " without understand the barrier to implementation , and without understand whether age verification can work in this context . we do not want to create a system and have people just get around it quite simply . we need the Government to do the work in term of set it up so that we can move towards a position of raise the age from 13 to 16 . the press have obviously be brief by conservative that the Conservatives be push for a ban on social medium for under - 16s , but it seem that what be actually be suggest be a review of the digital age of consent with a view to perhaps increase it to 16 . the two position be very different , and I wonder whether the tough talk in the press match what be actually be propose by the Opposition today . I have be very clear on this , and it be important in such a complex area to look at the detail and nuance of the challenge around — ( interruption . ) well , it be very easy to create a new clause where we click our finger and say , " let ' s make this more illegal ; let ' s bring in x , y or z restriction . " as a responsible opposition , we be look at the detail and complexity around implement something like this . [ interruption . ] I have be ask a few question and the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) might want to listen to the rationale of our approach . one question be how to define social medium . direct messaging service such as WhatsApp and platform such as YouTube fall in the scope of social medium . there be obviously social media platform that I think all of we be particularly concerned about , include Snapchat and TikTok , but by change the age of digital consent we do not want to end up capture low - risk social medium platform that we recognise be clearly necessary or beneficial , such as education technology or health technology platform . and that be before we start look at whether age verification can work , particularly in the 13 - to - 16 age group . sorry , I be get a bit lost . do the Minister think , and do the Conservative party think , that the digital age of consent should rise from 13 to 16 or not ? rise — order . I point out to Mr Bryant that Dr Ben Spencer be the shadow Minister . I think that be wishful thinking by the Minister in this debate . our new clause say that we need to look at the desirability of raise the digital age of consent for datum processing from 13 to 16 in term of its impact particularly on issue such as the social and educational development of child , but also the viability of do so in term of the fallout and the shake out of the Online Safety Act and with regard to age verification service . should there then be no evidence to demonstrate that it be unnecessary , we would then raise the digital age of consent to 13 to 16 . it might be the case that , over the next six month , the shake out of the Online Safety Act demonstrate that this intervention be not necessary . perhaps concern around particular high - risk social medium platform will change as technology evolve . we be say that the Government should do the work with a view to raise the age in 18 month unless there be evidence to prove the contrary . [ interruption . ] I have make this crystal clear , and if the Minister would choose to look at the new clause , rather than chuckle away in the corner , he might see the strategy we be propose . I thank the shadow Minister for give way . as ever , he be extremely polite in his presentation and in his dealing with intervention , but I be not sure that he deal with my intervention , which be basically ask whether the conservative party position be as it have brief to the press — that it wish to ban social medium for under - 16s — or that it wish to have a review on raise the age of datum consent . it can not be both . I say again that the position be that , follow a careful look at the evidence regard the desirability and validity of do so — take into account finding regard the impact and implementation of the Online Safety Act and age verification and how one define social medium , particularly high - risk platform — unless there be direct evidence to show that raise the age from 13 to 16 be unnecessary , which there may be , then we should raise it from 13 to 16 . if that have not provide clarity , the hon . Gentleman be very welcome to intervene on I again and I will try and explain it a third time , but I think member have get a grasp now . this new clause will also tackle some of the concern at the heart of the campaign for Jools ' law , and I pay tribute to Ellen Roome for her work in this area . I be very sympathetic to the tragic circumstance lead to this campaign and welcome the additional power grant to coroner in the Bill , but I know that they do not fully address Ellen Roome ' s concern . the Government need to explain how they can be sure that datum will be retain in the context of these tragedy , so that a coroner will be able to make sure , even if there be delay , that it can be access . if the Minister could provide an answer to that in his wind - up speech , and detail any further work in the area , that would be welcome . on parental access to child ' s datum more broadly , there be difficult challenge in term of article 8 right on privacy and transparency , especially for child age 16 to 17 as they approach adulthood . our new clause address some of these concern and would also put in place the groundwork to , de facto , raise the digital age of consent for inappropriate social medium to 16 within 18 month , render the request for parental access to young teenage account obsolete . I urge colleague across the House to support all our amendment today as a balanced , proportionate and effective response to a generational challenge . the Bill and the vote today be an opportunity for our Parliament , often refer to as the conscience of our country , to make clear our position on some of the most pressing social and technological issue of our time . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . I would like to thank colleague in the other place and in this House who have work so hard to improve the Bill . by modernise data infrastructure and governance , this Bill seek to unlock the secure , efficient use of datum while promote innovation across sector . as a tech evangelist , as well as the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , I welcome it , and I be pleased to see colleague from the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) and the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , here for this debate . have spend many unhappy hour when work for Ofcom try to find out where British Telecom ' s duct be actually bury , I offer a very personal welcome to the national underground asset register , and I thank the Minister for his work on this Bill as well as for his opening comment . I agree with the Minister that there be much to welcome in this Bill , but much of the Second Reading debate be consume by discussion on AI and copyright . I know many member intend to speak on that today , so I will just briefly set out my view . the problem with the Government ' s proposal on AI and copyright be that they give all the power to the tech platform who — let we be frank — have a great deal of power already , as well as trillion of dollar in stock market capitalisation and a determination to return value to their shareholder . what they do not have be an incentive to design appropriate technology for transparency and right reservation if they believe that in its absence they will have free access to our fantastic creator ’ ingenuity . it be essential that the Minister convince they that if they do not deliver this technology — I agree with he that it be highly possible to do so — then he will impose it . perhaps the Minister could announce an open competition , with a supplier contract as the prize , for whichever innovative company design something . the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , sit with the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , hear from small company that can do just that . the tech giant might not like it , but I often say that the opposite of regulation be not no regulation — it be bad regulation . if the tech platform do not lead , they will be oblige to follow because the House will not allow the copyright of our fantastic creator to be put at risk . the Minister know that I think he extremely charismatic and always have do , but I do not believe that " Chris from DSIT " can prevail against the combine force of Bj ö rn from Abba and Paul from the Beatles . the prospect for human advancement open by use datum for scientific research be immense . as a world - lead science powerhouse , the UK must take advantage of they . that be why , despite be a strong advocate of personal data right , I welcome the Bill ' s proposal to allow the reuse of datum without consent for the purpose of scientific research . I be concern , however , that the exemption be too broad and that it will be take advantage of by datum - hungry tech company use the exemption even if they be not truly advance the cause of scientific progress but simply , as with copyright , train their AI model . huge amount of datum be already collect by platform , such as direct message on Instagram or via web - scraping of any website that contain an individual ' s personal datum such as publish record or people ' s public linkedin page . we know it can be misuse because it have be , most recently with Meta ' s controversial decision to use Instagram - user datum to train AI model , trigger an Information Commissioner ' s Office response because of the difficulty user encounter in object to it . then there be the risk of datum collect via track cookie or the profiling of browse behaviour , which company such as Meta use to fingerprint people ' s device and track their browsing habit . could the datum use to create ad also be freely reusable under this exemption ? the US tech firm Palantir have the contract for the NHS federate data platform . Amnesty International have already raise concern about the potential for patient ' datum be mishandle . do the Bill mean that our health datum could be reuse by Palantir for what it call research purpose ? before the hon . Lady move on from Palantir , I think the House should know that it be an organisation with its origin in the american security state — the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency — and I can not understand for the life of I why we be willing to commit the datum of our citizen to an organisation like that . I thank the right hon . member for that intervention . I will leave it to the Minister to address his point . the concern that be probably of most interest to my constituent be reflect in the recent report by the Sunday Times that Chelsea football club claim research and development tax credit . will the Minister confirm that if Chelsea be to collect datum on Newcastle United fan attend an away match at Stamford Bridge , it could be reuse for whatever research it be undertake as a consequence of the exemption ? my amendment 37 and 38 would incorporate into the Bill two clarification to help reduce the potential misuse of the scientific research exemption . I thank the Ada Lovelace Institute for its help in draft the amendment . amendment 37 propose place in the Bill a basic definition of scientific research base on the " Frascati Manual " use by the ICO , enable the " reasonably describe " test to be assess against an objective standard . amendment 38 be a requirement that such research be conduct in line with relevant framework and standard , base on the UK Research and Innovation code of practice for research , ensure transparency for the use of scientific research exemption . researcher would have to publish — for example , on their website — a short statement with detail of what they be reuse and send it to the ICO . this be a minimal , proportionate amount of information that researcher should already have to hand , mean that over time we get a picture of how much people ' s data be be reuse and for what kind of research , so that there be some transparency here . when the Minister respond , could he please engage with the example I have give ? his letter to I of 17 April , which be perhaps draft by his official , seem to say that the exemption be okay because we can trust company to understand our undefined understanding of scientific research , and that the ICO would act if that be not the case . one problem with that suggestion be that we will not know how the data be be use for scientific research , because there be no transparency requirement on algorithm in general and on this exemption in particular . science in this country be respect — it be more respected than politician and big tech . we must not allow that respect to be contaminate by use that be not truly scientific . I have a real fear that if we allow this exemption to be abuse , we will undermine public trust in datum sharing and in science . I will briefly speak to other part of the Bill and amendment . on new clause 21 , I hope the Government will set out how definition of sex and gender will be consistent and appropriate to the need for which the data be be collect and verify under the digital verification provision . I thank my hon . friend for give way and for the speech she be make . we all know the importance of datum . do she agree that it be right that when we be record sex , it be base on what the Equality Act 2010 determine as sex , be biological sex ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . the Minister refer to that briefly , describe it , in relation to AI , as a pipeline where bad datum in would mean bad datum out . my hon . friend know that the definition of sex and gender have be controversial and contested . the Supreme Court bring some clarity and it be important that data collection reflect consistency and clarity . if we have bad data definition , we will undoubtedly have bad consequence . as I say , it be important that we have consistency and definition when it come to the collection of datum for these purpose , and I look forward to hear how that will be achieve . I also want to speak briefly in support of clause 125 , which introduce rule allow researcher to access datum from online service for online safety research . the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee ' s inquiry into social medium algorithm in misinformation hear considerable evidence on the role of algorithm in push misinformation generally , and particularly to child . I very much welcome this clause , which will increase transparency , but could the Minister clarify that it will fully cover the recommender algorithm use by social medium platform , which drive new content to user ? my constituent often feel that advance in technology be do to they rather than with they and for their benefit . critically , our constituent need to feel that they have agency over the way data impact their life . rather than feel empower by digital innovation , too many feel the opposite : disempowere , undermined , dehumanise , track and even attack . deliver the improvement promise by the Bill must therefore go hand in hand with respect the right of citizen to control and manage their datum and drive innovation and scientific research benefit to they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker , and for your patience regard my early intervention . I be very passionate about all element of the Bill . on Second Reading , I say : " Data be the new gold " — [ Official Report , 12 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 302 . ] — a gold that could be harness to have a profound impact on people ' s daily life , and I stand by that . with exponential advance in innovation almost daily , this have never be truer , so we must get this right . I rise today to speak to the amendment and new clause table in my name specifically , and to address two urgent challenge : protect child in our digital world and safeguard the right of our creative industry in the age of artificial intelligence . the Bill before we represent a rare opportunity to shape how technology serve people , which I firmly believe be good for both society and business . however , I stand here with mixed emotion : pride in the cross - party work we have accomplish , include with the other place ; hope for the progress we can still achieve ; but also disappointment that we must fight so hard for protection that should be self - evident . new clause 1 seek to raise the age of consent for social medium datum processing from 13 to 16 year old . we Liberal Democrats be very clear where we stand on this . young mind be not design to withstand the psychological assault of today ' s social media algorithm . by raise the age at which child can consent to have their datum process by social medium service , we can take an important first step towards tackle those algorithm at source . this be a common - sense measure , bring we in line with many of our european neighbour . the evidence before we be compelling and demand our attention . when I recently carry out a safe screen tour of school across Harpenden and berkhamste to hear exactly what young people think about the issue , I hear that they be trap in cycle of harmful content that they never seek out . student speak of brain rot and describe algorithm that push they towards extreme content , despite their effort to block it . the evidence be not just anecdotal ; it be overwhelming . child mental health referral have increase by 477 % in just eight year , with nearly half of teenager with problematic smartphone use report anxiety . one in four child age 12 to 17 have receive unwanted sexual image . we know that 82 % of parent support Government intervention in this area , while a liberal Democrat poll show that seven in 10 people say the Government be not do enough to protect child online . I welcome new clause 1 , table by my hon . friend . do she agree that raise the age of consent for process personal datum from 13 to 16 will help reduce the use of smartphone in school by reduce their addictiveness , thereby also improve concentration and educational performance in school ? that be exactly what be at the heart of this matter — the datum that drive that addictiveness and commercialise our child ' s attention be not the way forward . many amazing organisation have gather evidence in this area , and it be abundantly clear that the overuse of child ' s datum increase their risk of harm . it power toxic algorithm that trap child in cycle of harmful content , recommender system that connect they with predator , and discriminatory AI system that be use to make decision about they that carry lifelong consequence . Health Professionals for Safer Screens — a coalition of child psychiatrist , paediatrician and GPs — be plead for immediate legislative action . this be not a partisan issue . so many of we adult can relate to the feeling of be draw into endless scrolling on our device — I will not look around the Chamber too much . imagine how much more difficult it be for develop mind . this be a cross - party problem , and it should not be political , but we need action now . let I be absolutely clear : this change be not about restrict young people ' s digital access or oppose technology and innovation ; it be about require platform to design their service with child ' s safety as the default , not as an afterthought . for year we have watch as our child ' s wellbeing have be compromise by big tech company and their profit . our call for action be support by the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children , 5rights , Healthcare Professionals for Safer Screens , Girlguiding , Mumsnet and the Online Safety Act network . this be our chance to protect our child . the time to act be not 18 month down the line , as the Conservatives suggest , but now . I urge member to support new clause 1 and take the crucial step towards create a digital world where child can truly thrive . to protect our child , I have also table amendment 45 to clause 80 , which seek to ensure that automate decision - make system can not be use to make impactful decision about child without robust safeguard . the Bill must place a child ' s good interest at the heart of any such system , especially where education or healthcare be concerned . we must protect the foundational right of our creator in this new technological landscape , which be why I have table new clause 2 . the UK ' s creative industry contribute £ 126 billion annually to our economy and employ more than 2 . 3 million people — they be vital to our economy and our cultural identity . these be the artist , musician , writer and creator who inspire we , define we and proudly carry british creativity on to the global stage . yet today , creative professional across the UK watch with mount alarm as AI model train on their life ' s work generate imitation without permission , payment or even acknowledgment . new clause 2 would ensure that operator of web crawler and AI model comply with exist UK copyright law , regardless of where they be base . this be not about stifle innovation ; it be about ensure that innovation respect establish right and be good for everyone . currently , AI company be scrape creative work at an industrial scale . a single AI model may be train on thousand of copyright work without permission or compensation . the UK company Polaron be a fantastic example , create AI technology to help engineer to characterise material , quantify microstructural variation and optimise microstructural design fast than ever before . why do I bring up Polaron ? it be train an AI model build from scratch without use copyright material . I be emphatically on the hon . Lady ' s side in her intent to protect british creativity , but how do she respond to the implicit threat from artificial intelligence provider to this and other element of the Bill to effectively deny AI to the UK if they find the regulation too difficult to deal with ? we have a thriving innovation sector in the UK , so those company be not go anywhere — they want to work with the UK . we actually have a system now that have a fantastic creative industry and we have innovation and business come in . there be many way to incentivise that . I talk a lot about money , skill and infrastructure — that be what these innovative company be look for . we can make sure the guardrail be right so that it work for everyone . by ensure that operator of web crawler and AI model comply with exist UK copyright law , we be simply uphold establish right in a new technological context . the UK lead the world in establish trustworthy financial and legal service , create one of the large economy by take a long - term view , and we can do the same with technology . by support new clause 2 , we could establish the UK as a base for trustworthy technology while protect our creative industry . finally , I will touch on new clause 4 , which would address the critical gap in our approach to AI regulation : the lack of transparency regard training datum . right now , creator have no way of know if their work have be use to train AI model . transparency be the foundation of trust . without it , we risk not only exploit creator , but undermine public confidence in these powerful new technology . the principle be simple : if an AI system be train use someone ' s creative work , they deserve to know about it and to have a say in how it be use . that be not just fair to creator , but essential for build an AI ecosystem that the public trust . by support new clause 4 , we would ensure that the development of AI happen in the open , allow for proper compensation , attribution and accountability . that be how we will build responsible AI that serve everyone , not just the tech company . on the point of transparency , I will touch briefly on a couple of other amendment . we must go far in algorithmic decision making . that be why I have table amendment 46 , which would ensure that individual receive personalised explanation in plain language when an automated decision system affect they . we can not allow generic justification to stand in for accountability . I will support the hon . Lady ' s new clause 2 tonight , if she push it to a vote , and I encourage she also to push new clause 4 to a vote . this be a most important issue . we must ensure that transparency be available to all artist and creator . do she agree that there be no good technological barrier to have transparency in place right now ? that have be my challenge to the tech company , which I absolutely support in innovate and drive this — but if they be say that it would be easy for creative to do this , why be it not easy for big tech company with power and resource to lead the way ? amendment 41 to 44 would ensure that the decision make about people , whether through datum profiling , automate system or algorithm , be fair . they would clarify that meaningful human involvement in automate decision making must be real , competent and capable of change the outcome , not just a box - tick exercise . the amendment before we offer a clear choice to protect our child and creator or to continue to delay while harm grow — the choice to build a future in which technology either build trust or destroy it . we have the evidence and the solution , and the time for action be now . let we choose a future in which technology empower , rather than exploit — one that be good for society and for business . I urge all member to support our amendment , which would put people and the wellbeing of future generation first . I be pleased to speak in this debate in support of new clause 14 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , to which I have add my name . the clause would give our medium and creative sector urgently need transparency over the use of copyright work by AI model . I be sure that my speech will come as no surprise to the Minister . I care about this issue because of , not in spite of , my belief in the power of AI and its potential to transform our society and our economy for the well . I care because the adoption of novel technology by business and consumer require trust in the practice of firm produce the tech . I care about this issue because , as the Creative Rights in AI Coalition have say : " the UK have the potential to be the global destination for generative firm seek to license the high - quality creative content . but to unlock that immense value , we must act now to stimulate a dynamic licensing market : the government must use this legislation to introduce meaningful transparency provision . " although I be sure that the Government ' s amendment be well mean , they set we on a timeline for change to the copyright framework that would take we right to the tail end of this Parliament . many in this House , include myself , do not believe that an effective opt - out mechanism will ever develop ; I know it be not in the Bill right now , but it be propose in the AI and copyright consultation . even if the Government insist on pursue this route , it would be a dereliction of duty to fail to enforce our exist law in the intervene period . big tech firm claim that transparency be not feasible , but that be a red herring . these company be absolutely capable of let right holder know whether their individual work have be use , as OpenAI have be order to do in the Authors Guild v . OpenAI copyright case . require transparency without the need for a court order will avoid waste court time and swiftly establish a legal precedent , make the legal risk of copyright infringement too great for AI firm to continue with the mass theft that have take place . that be why big tech object to transparency , just as it object to any transparency requirement , whether they be focus on online safety , digital competition or copyright . it would make it accountable to the individual and business that it extract value from . the AI company far argue that provide transparency would compromise their trade secret , but that be another red herring . nobody be ask for a specific recipe of how the model be train : they be ask only to be able to query the ingredient that have go into it . generative AI model be make up of billion of datum point , and it be the weighting of datum that be a model ' s secret sauce . the Government can do myriad thing around skill , access to finance , procurement practice and energy cost to support AI firm build and deploy model in the UK . they insist that they do not see the AI copyright debate as a zero - sum game , but trade away the property right of 2 . 4 million UK creative — 70 % of whom live outside London — to secure tech investment would be just that . there be no insurmountable technical barrier to transparency in the same way that there be no opt - out . the key barrier to transparency be the desire of tech firm to obscure their illegal behaviour . it have be show that Meta employee proactively seek , in their own word , " to remove datum that be clearly mark as pirate / steal " from the datum that they use from the pirate shadow library , LibGen . if they have technical mean to identify copyright content to cover their own back , surely they have the technical mean to be honest with creator about the use of their valuable work . I say to the Minister , who I know truly care about the future of creative and tech business in the UK — that be absolutely not in question — that if he can not accept new clause 14 as table , he should take the opportunity as the Bill go back to the Lords to bring forward clause that would allow he to implement granular transparency mechanism in the next six to 12 month . I and many on the Labour Benches — as well as the entire creative industry and other who do not want what be theirs simply to be take from they — stand ready to support the development of workable solution at pace . it can never be too soon to protect the livelihood of UK citizen , nor to build trust between creator and the technology that would not exist without their hard work . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I rise to support new clause 2 to 5 in the name of the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) ; to pay tribute to Baroness Kidron , who have drive forward these amendment in the other place ; and to speak in favour of new clause 20 in the name of the official Opposition . I be begin to sound a bit like a broken record on this matter , but our creative industry be such a phenomenal UK success story . they be our economic superpower and be worth more than automotive , aerospace and life science add together , comprise almost 10 % of UK register business and create nearly 2 . 5 million job . More than that , our creative industry have so much intrinsic value ; they underpin our culture and our sense of community . intellectual property showcase our nation around the world and support our tourism sector . as a form of soft power , there be simply nothing like it — yet these social and economic benefit be all be put at risk by the suggest wholesale transfer of copyright to AI company . the choice present to we always seem , wittingly or unwittingly , to pit our innovative AI sector against our world - class creative industry and , indeed , our medium sector . it be worth note that news media be often overlook in these debate , but newspaper , magazine and news website license print and content online . in turn , that help to support high - quality and independent journalism , which be so vital to underpin our democratic life . that be essential consider recent news that the global average press freedom score have fall to an all - time low . I want to push back against the false choice that we always seem to be present with that , somehow , our creative industry be Luddites and be not in favour of AI . I have see time and again how our creator have be characterise by big tech and its lobbyist as somehow resistant to technological progress , which be of course nonsensical . I want to knock on the head the idea that any Government Minister think that the creative industry be Luddites . as I say in the debate in Westminster Hall — I know that the hon . Lady be not able to be there — many creative industry use all sort of technical innovation every single day of the week . they be not Luddites at all ; they be the great innovator in the country . I thank the Minister for that reassurance . I do take part in a Westminster Hall debate on this matter a couple of week ago , but one of his colleague be respond . I make the same point then . quite often in the medium or more generally , AI seem to be pit against our creative industry , which should not be the case , because we know that our creative industry embrace technology virtually more than any other sector . they want to use AI responsibly . they do not want to be replace by it . the question before we be how lawmaker can ensure that AI be use ethically without this large - scale theft of IP . we be today discuss amendment that go somewhere towards provide an answer to that question . on this issue of Luddites , surely one of the problem for english language creator be that what they create be of more value because of the reach of the english language over other . therefore , they be more likely to have their product scrape and have more damage do to they . my right hon . friend make a very good observation , but the fact be that so much content have already be scrape . crawler be all over the intellectual property of so many of our creator , writer and publisher — so much so that we be almost in a position where we be shut the gate after the horse have bolt . nevertheless , we need to do what we can legislatively to get to a well place on this issue . new clause 2 would simply require anyone operate web crawler for training and develop AI model to comply with copyright law . it be self - evident and incontrovertible that AI developer look to deploy their system in the UK should comply with UK law , but they often claim that copyright be not very clear . I would argue that it be perfectly clear ; it be just that sometimes they do not like it . it be a failure to abide by the law that be create lawsuit around the world . the new clause would require all those market their AI model in the UK to abide by our gold - standard copyright regime , which be the basis that underpin our thrive creative industry . new clause 3 would require web crawler operation and AI developer to disclose the who , what , why , and when crawler be be use . it also require they to use different crawler for different purpose and to ensure that right holder be not punish for block they . a joint hearing of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee hear how publisher be be target by thousand of web crawler with the intention of scrape content to sell to AI developer . we hear that many , if not most , web crawler be not abide by current opt - out protocol — robot . txt , for example . to put it another way , some developer of large language model be buy datum scrape by third - party tech company , in contravention of robot . txt protocol , to evade accusation of foul play . all this do be undermine exist licensing and divert revenue that should be return to our creative industry and news medium sector . new clause 3 would provide transparency over who be scrape copyright work and give creator the ability to assert and enforce their right . new clause 4 would require AI developer to be transparent about what datum be go into their AI model . transparency be fundamental to this debate . it be what we should all be focus on . we be already behind the drag curve on this . California have introduce transparency requirement , and no one can say that the developer be flee silicon valley just yet . new clause 20 , table by the official Opposition , also address transparency . it would protect the AI sector from legal action by enable both side to come to the table and get a fair deal . a core part of this new clause be the requirement on the Secretary of State to commit to a plan to help support creator where their copyright have be use in AI by require a degree of transparency . new clause 5 would provide the mean by which we could enforce the rule . it would give the Information Commissioner the power to investigate , assess and sanction bad actor . it would also entitle right holder to recover damage for any loss suffer , and to injunctive relief . part of the reason why right holder be so concerned be that the vast majority of creator do not have deep enough pocket to take on AI developer . how can they take on billion - dollar big tech company when those company have the good lawyer that money can buy , who can bog case down in legislation and red tape ? right holder need a way of enforce their right that be accessible , practical and fair . the Government ' s AI and copyright consultation say that it want to ensure " a clear legal basis for AI training with copyright material " . that be what the new clause that I have speak to would deliver . together they refute the tech sector ' s claim of legal uncertainty , while provide transparency and enforcement capability for creator . ultimately , transparency be the main barrier to great collaboration between AI developer and creator . notwithstanding some of the unambitious Government amendment , the Opposition ' s amendment would provide the long - overdue redress to protect our creative industry by require transparency and a widening of the scope of those who be subject to copyright law . the amendment would protect our professional creator and journalist , preserve the pipeline of young people look to make a career in these sector themselves , and cement the UK as a genuine creative industry superpower , maintain our advantage in the field of monetise intellectual property . one day we may make a commercial advantage out of the fact that we be the place where company can set up ethical AI company — we could be the envy of the world . I rise to support the Bill and speak to new clause 22 and 23 table in my name . the measure in the Bill will unlock the power of datum to grow the economy , to improve public service and make people ' s live easy . by modernise the way in which consumer and business can safely share datum , the Bill will boost the economy by an estimate £ 10 billion over the next decade . the Bill will also make our public service more efficient and effective , save our frontline worker from million of hour of bureaucracy every year , which they can use to focus on keep we safe and healthy . I welcome the Minister ' s mission to update Government for the modern digital age . any responsible Government must use datum to build an accurate picture of who they be serve . it be because I recognise the incredible power of datum that I table my probe new clause on the need to record ethnicity datum for Sikhs and Jews . if some community be invisible to public body , how can we expect they to be serve equally ? I table these new clause to put right a wrong . the ethnicity datum that public body collect be often patchy and incomplete , and for Sikhs and Jews specifically datum be not collect at all . Jews and Sikhs have be legally recognise as ethnic group for over 40 year , since the Mandla v . Dowell Lee case in 1983 . that be reaffirm in the Equality Act 2010 , where they be consider as both religious and ethnic group . as those be protect characteristic , we would expect public body to be instruct to collect information on Jews and Sikhs routinely — especially when public body use ethnic category only to deliver public service — but they be not . that be why this really matter . Jews and Sikhs therefore face discrimination , which be far evidence by the 2017 race disparity audit that find no datum on Sikhs in the 340 dataset assess across Government . in recent year , Jews and Sikhs have be record only in religion datum . however , that datum be rarely collect to a good standard — if at all — it exclude secular and non - practise Jews and Sikhs , and be not use by public body to monitor and reduce inequality or provide public service . how be we mean to tackle discrimination and inequality if Jews and Sikhs be invisible to policymaker ? new clause 22 , in my name , would therefore make it a statutory requirement for public body to collect ethnicity datum and ensure that , within that , they collect datum on Jews and Sikhs who be currently exclude . new clause 23 be on a more specific but no less important point : the health inequality that persist as a result of inadequate datum . it would specifically target the provision in the Bill about the register of birth and death . in order for that datum to be meaningful , surely the Minister will agree that jewish and Sikh death matter . if they be not include , what message be that send to both those group ? the pandemic reveal the tragic consequence of fail to recognise health inequality among different ethnic group . many expert in public health now accept that we be too slow to recognise that some ethnic group be die at a far high rate than other . the Office for National Statistics belatedly start analyse covid - relate death datum by religious group — a short - term exercise that have since be discontinue — and find that Sikhs die disproportionately from covid , even after adjust for other factor . not only that ; it show that Sikhs be affect at a different rate from other predominantly south asian group , demonstrate the inadequacy of the exist ethnic category . the same go for Jews , who be often miss from datum that the NHS collect , as acknowledge in a report from the NHS Race and Health Observatory publish in December . british Jews also die from covid at almost twice the rate of the rest of the population , and certain genetic condition also have a high prevalence among jewish people , such as breast cancer in ashkenazi jewish woman . the new clause would take forward one of the Race and Health Observatory ' s key recommendation , to mandate the inclusion of Jewish as an option for ethnicity , allow we to collect essential datum for track health outcome . it be of course right that we do the same for the Sikh community . will the Minister commit to accept these new clause , give the significance of the argument in their favour ? England and Wales be behind other country on this issue . the United States Department of Health and Human Services have record ethnicity on death certificate record for decade , and Scotland have record ethnicity as part of the death registration process since 2012 . in October 2020 — during the pandemic — the previous Government announce plan to adopt the measure in England , too , but despite warm word from the then Minister for Equalities , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) — now the Leader of the Opposition — no action be take . I be pleased that the Government be take forward important change to ethnicity data collection within the death registration process , but as it stand , the process would pretty much replicate the in - build bias against Jews and Sikhs who do not have their own specific category in ONS - design ethnicity questionnaire . they simply rely on exist record information for ethnicity . my new clause would change that , make it mandatory for public body to collect ethnicity datum for Jews and Sikhs . after all , it be not religious difference that make ashkenazi woman more susceptible to breast cancer . the distinction between record ethnicity versus religion be the difference between jewish and Sikh community be count and not . good quality datum save life . that be why I introduce a ten - minute rule Bill on the issue in the House last year , and my campaign have wide support from both the jewish and Sikh community . I do not intend to press my new clause to a vote , but I hope the Government will bring forward change that mandate the inclusion of jewish and Sikh ethnicity category for the purpose of public service delivery . I fully support the Bill ' s mission to unlock the power of datum to transform life . that datum must be fair . Sikhs and Jews must no long be invisible to policymaker . I rise to speak in support of amendment 10 table by the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , in my name and that of other . I congratulate he on the amendment , as it be worth talk about . the amendment be quite simple , in a way , as its key point be that it prevent the transfer of UK user datum to jurisdiction where datum right can not be enforce and there be no credible right of redress . the core principle of datum protection law be accountability , yet current UK law allow UK company to transfer user datum to their international partner in jurisdiction where there be no credible appeal process and no predictable rule of law . that basically put power in the hand of those who have sign contract contain standard datum protection clause . those contract create the illusion of protection , but in reality the data transfer be unsafe , either because the prospect of state interference be real or because the condition for protection of datum transfer simply be not present . we rely too much on the idea that , somehow , contract law in the UK will protect the datum be transfer across to other country , but this be about country where such rule do not apply . transfer datum to regime such as China , for example , be not just a threat to UK citizen ' privacy but a national security risk . british citizen ' personal information , health record , financial detail , biometric , genomic or location datum could be access under China ' s national intelligence law , which compel organisation to co - operate with state intelligence work in secret . that be not speculation ; it be the well - know and establish law in China . this be not only about China , but I use that country as a good example because it be a regular abuser of datum . we have be unbelievably stupid across the board , in company and so on , in assume straightaway that the rule would apply to chinese company and they would enforce they . they can not , because under the national intelligence law , they be tell , " you will provide datum as and when we require it from whatever source you have access to . " the situation right now in Ireland be interesting . the Irish Data Protection Commission recently fine TikTok the not inconsiderable sum of € 530 million and find that the company have illegally transfer datum from user in the european economic area to China . the commission determine that chinese law offer no essential equivalent to protection on GDPR due to state surveillance law and the lack of judicial oversight . that be not a lone example . I have write on a number of occasion about the stupidity of the contract law cover thing such as pregnancy test and covid test , which be dominate by a chinese company call BGI . it be the big genomic company in the world and it be allow to hold about 15 % of the datum gather for test for use back in China . we now know that China be use that datum , work with AI company , to develop test and to reference weakness in certain ethnic group . we see what be already go on in Xinjiang , where a troublesome ethnic group be be deliberately target through genocide to get rid of it , but it be also look at area and weakness in Europe that may well in turn be usable . we have allow it under this contract to have that datum presume that it would be protect . it be not protect at all ; it have simply be transfer and be now be use for military purpose . those be just two example , but it be interesting that Ireland have already take action . let we not forget the Shanghai police database leak in 2022 in which the personal datum of over 1 billion chinese citizen , include criminal record and biometric detail , be leave openly accessible online for over a year without any enforcement action or government accountability . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on table the amendment , because it go to the heart of what it mean to be a democracy that value the rule of law , privacy and the dignity of the individual . it rightly state that no third country can be consider adequate if it lack credible mean for judicial protection , administrative redress or statutory legal remedy . it align closely with the high threshold set by the Schrems II judgment , and it ensure that the standard do not fall below those we uphold , and be uphold among our friend in the European Union . my right hon . friend make a formidably important point . the amendment highlight one of the extraordinary weakness of the Bill , which be that it in effect reverse GDPR on a large number of citizen protection . to reiterate the point he gently make , that enormous fine will not stop tiktok , because it operate under legal compulsion . even though it pay £ 450 million , it will continue to commit the criminal offence for which it have just be convict . I agree with my right hon . friend : that be the peculiarity . the Minister know only too well about the nature of what go on in country such as China . chinese company be frankly scared stiff of cut across what their government tell they they have to do , because what happen be quite brutal . we have to figure out how we protect datum from ill use by bad regime . I use China as an example because it be simply the most powerful of those bad regime , but many other do not observe data protection in the way that we would assume under contract law . for example , BGI ' s harnessing of the datum it have glean from covid test , and its dominance in the pregnancy test market , be staggering . it have be officially allow to take 15 % of the datum , but it have take considerably more , and that be just one area . Genomics be a huge and vital area right now , because it will dominate everything in our life , and it populate AI with an ability to describe and recreate the whole essence of individual , so this be not a casual or small matter . we talk about AI be use in the creative industry — I have a vested interest , because my son be in the creative industry and would support what have be say by many other about protect they — but this area go a whole quantum leap in advance of that . we may not even know in the future , from the nature of who they be , who we be talk to and what their vital statistic be . this amendment be not about one country ; it be about provide a yardstick against which all third country should be measure . if we be to maintain the UK ' s stand as a nation that uphold privacy , the rule of law , democracy and accountability , we must not allow datum to be transfer to regime that fundamentally do not share those value . it be high time that we do this , and I be glad to see the Minister nod . I hope therefore that he might look again at the amendment . out of old involvement in an organisation that he know I be still part of , he might think to himself that maybe this be worth do or find some way through . I do not resile from my view just because I have become a Minister , just as the right hon . Member do not when he become a Minister . he make an important set of point . I do think , however , that they be already meet by the change in the schedule to article 45b , which be not an exhaustive list of thing that the Secretary of State may consider . the point he refer to be certainly thing that the Secretary of State could — and should , I would argue — consider . I be grateful to the Minister , and I hope that that might find its way on to the face of the Bill with a little more description , but I understand that and I acknowledge that he do as well . although we will not press this to a vote , I hope that the Government realise that we sometimes have no comprehension of how big and important the power we be up against be , or of how they dominate their own produce company in every international market . we must wake up to that and understand the real threat , not just to the ability to create but to the ability to exist as who we be . at that point we may come to term with this . have listen to the Minister — we have work together on many issue to do with both Russia and China — I hope the Government will think again and come up with a slightly tight version in line with the amendment table by the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . I have table new clause 18 , which be about health and institute a new public interest test . there be an exist test , but it be not very accessible or useful nowadays . I will explain why . probably the large — or the most sensitive — database in the United Kingdom be the one hold by the NHS . almost every human being in our country be on a file somewhere , hopefully for beneficial and clinical reason , in the NHS . I have have a series of medical issue in the last few month , and I be astonish by how much datum be hold about I . that will be the same for all of we , I guess . that database be fill with the most vital , private and intimate detail about all our life , and if it be go to be sustain , it be important that it retain the confidence of patient and of citizen as a whole . the truth be that the Information Commissioner be not convince that the Bill go far enough in protect we and the NHS datum , and if the Minister have time at the end , I hope he will be able to comment on whether he be persuade by the Information Commissioner that we should move far . this datum , which be intimate and private , as I have just say , can also be the basis of major advance in human welfare . we can imagine all sort of way that our interest as human being be be advance by the use of that datum every day . I be think , for example , of the search for a covid vaccine , which be lead by a british scientist and partly base on the datum that be available from the NHS . we should be celebrate that — that scientific research be essential — but there be a threat to this database as well , and in my view it come from two separate source . first , there be hostile — or even friendly — state actor . secondly , there be private interest who want to use the datum not for human welfare , though that might be a fig leaf that they use , but for private profit . that can not be right , give what that datum have be create for . the hon . Gentleman make an important point . datum can be susceptible and its breach be a breach of privacy . do he agree that one danger in new clause 21 , about the datum on individual ' sex at birth , be that it risk breach someone ' s privacy if they have keep that fact private and that datum become public knowledge through the mean be discuss ? I thank the hon . member for make that important point , and of course she be right . I go back to this question of the threat to the database , which be not simply the product of my imagination ; they be real . first , all datum can be monetise , but this database be so large that huge commercial interest be now try to get access to that health datum . I do not want to cause offence to any hon . member , all of whom I know follow the rule , but it be interesting that nearly £ 3 million from the private health sector be make available to over 150 different member of Parliament . I do not suggest that any Member have do anything inappropriate — that would be wrong of I — but one wonder how almost £ 3 million be find by a private sector that have no commercial interest in pursue those investment . secondly , on commercial interest , will the Minister confirm that at no stage will any datum or any other aspect of the NHS be up for sale as part of negotiation with the United States on a trade deal ? will the Government provide some guidance on that ? if the House reflect on private sector interest — which be not necessarily in the good interest of humanity — and how they make money , there be an interesting thought about health insurance . a party represent in the House be lead by an individual who have suggest that we should end the way that we fund the NHS and replace it with an insurance system . if the insurance industry get access to the datum hold on all of we by the NHS , they would be able to see the genome of each person or of group of people , and provide differential rate of insurance accord to people ' s genetic make - up . that be a serious threat . I do not think the party that have recently enter the House have think that through , but company provide insurance could commercialise that datum . that be one reason we must never follow the track towards a national insurance system to replace the NHS . yesterday , the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care tell the House that we will not be privatise the NHS , and I welcome that statement . reference have already be make to Palantir — the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) mention it early — and the contract that we inherit from the previous Government . it be extraordinary that Palantir , a company that have deep root in the United States defence establishment , should be handle the datum of million of people , when its chair have say that he be completely opposed to the central principle of the NHS and that he effectively want a private health system in the UK . how could a £ 500 million contract to handle our personal datum have be hand over to such a company , lead by a person whose purpose seem to be to destroy the principle of our NHS ? how our datum be handle should be our decision , in the United Kingdom . the Information Commissioner say that it be important that this precious and vital datum , which be personal to each of we , should be protect against any possibility of cyber - attack . however , there have already be a cyber - attack . Qilin — the way I be pronounce it make it sound as if someone be try to commit murder , but there may be another way of say it — be a russian cyber - criminal group that obtain access to 400 GB of private information hold by a company deal with pathology testing . that be an enormous amount of datum . Qilin attempt to extort from the company that hold the datum a financial interest . I do not know whether enough provision be make in the Bill for the protection of our datum , so I suggest that there should be a new public interest test , with a report to Parliament within six month , which we can all debate and then examine whether the legislation have go far enough . finally , the Information Commissioner say three thing . first , the database must retain public confidence . medium discussion and opinion polling show that people be lose confidence that their personal datum be secure , and I understand why that should be the case . secondly , datum should be properly protect and build from the beginning with proper safeguard against cyber - attack . thirdly , and perhaps most importantly , the Bill refer to an effective exemption for scientific research . as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) say , private company , and perhaps US company , might use the idea of promote scientific research as a fig leaf to hide their search for profit from the precious commodity — datum — that we have because we create our NHS . that be a very dangerous thought , and the Information Commissioner say he be not convince that the definition of scientific research in the Bill be sufficiently strong to protect we from predatory activity by other state actor or private company . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent speech and some very perceptive point . I remind he that previous attempt by the NHS to create a single datum standard have all fail , because the GPs do not believe that the security level be sufficient . it be not just the Information Commissioner ; the GPs refuse to co - operate , which highlight the powerful point that the hon . Gentleman be make . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for make that very serious point . when the clinician — whose duty be to protect their patient — say they be not convinced about the safety of datum be hand over to a central database , we have to listen to their reaction . I do not intend to press my new clause to the vote , but it be important that we continue to debate this matter , because this enormous database — which can contribute to the general welfare of all humanity — must be protect in such a way that it retain confidence and ensure the security of the whole system . with that , I leave the discussion to continue on other matter . I call Pete Wishart . thank you ever so much , Madam Deputy Speaker — other matter we shall attend to . I speak in support of new clause 2 to 6 and new clause 14 , which I enthusiastically support . I believe that those new clause represent our very last chance to guarantee at least a bit of security for our creative industry in the face of what can only be describe as the almost existential threat pose by generative AI . this be critical . I listen to the Minister very carefully , but this lackadaisical approach and the progress he be intend do not properly reflect the scale of the threat and challenge that our creative industry be currently confront with . I accept that we have come a long way in this debate , and I accept the positive tone the Minister try to take when deal with these issue . I believe that he be sincere about try to find a solution — he want to get to a place where both the AI company and the creative industry be satisfied . I be not entirely sure that we will get to that place , but I wish he all the good in those effort . we have certainly come a long way since the first statement we have in this House . I be sure that hon . member will remember the belligerent way in which the Secretary of State present that first statement — I be surprised that he be not here today . he be almost say to the creative industry that they have to take it on the chin in order to satisfy this Government ' s attempt to find some economic growth — which they have so far find elusive — in the shape of unfettered artificial intelligence , and that we should just get on with that agenda . yesterday , I speak to a local author in Mid Sussex , Chris Bradford . he have write a number of brilliant child ' s book , include the " Young Samurai " series , which my own child enjoy a few year ago . go back to the point make by the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , Chris tell I that he be not against AI — he can see that it have use — but that what we be see be blatant theft . do the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) agree that the creative industry be part of the answer to grow our economy ? I agree with the hon . Lady , and I will give she a personal example — I should have declare my interest , as set out in the register . throughout at least the past five decade , artist have work with the technology that be available . it be the first thing they turn to when go to the studio to make a new recording . the first thing they do in the film industry be to look for all sort of innovation . it be absurd to suggest that somehow people who work in the creative sector will not embrace this new technology and use it for all its worth , so I fully accept what she say . I want to refer to the public campaign , because I be sure I be not alone in have an inbox full of correspondence from concerned constituent . our constituent be right with our artist in the creative sector when it come to this issue . member will know that I have be evangelise on the value of copyright and intellectual property right for at least two decade , and I always feel I be have quite a job in get through and reach our constituent , but by God have they get it now . they understand and appreciate that our gold - standard copyright regime underpin our success in the creative sector right around the world . it be our ip right and copyright that ensure that the artist our constituent love , and on whose behalf they write , be properly reward for the work they produce and recognise for the wonderful thing they bring forward . be it not ironic that just at the point when our constituent be start to get it and see the value of copyright , we have a Government who be move away from the central principle of that copyright regime and be maybe at the point of water it down , when it have give we sustained success over all these year ? I want to thank the campaign and the artist for do this , because it have move the Government on significantly . we have now see they abandon their preferred opt - out mechanism when it come to their consultation , and we welcome that . instead of resolve the debate , it seem that the Government be kick it into the long grass , to this no man ' s land of economic assessment , report and consult with the sector . that might take year , and we have not get year . we have artificial intelligence , in the form of the bot and training machine , hoover up all our cultural heritage at this very moment . the matter be press , and we need solution now . the Government have introduce new clause 16 and 17 , and I do not think anybody have any problem with they — it be good to see that they have finally put a brake on some of their ambition with the opt - out . what we need be real action . let we hear more about the dynamic licensing and right enforcement system that the Minister continually go on about . if we have to have legislation , it have to be do quickly . we have not get year leave to do all this . it could take up to 12 month just to get the report that the Government mention in their amendment . beyond that , legislation have to be design , present to Parliament and debate here , and then it have to be implement . we have not get the year to do that . every day that we delay , more of our cultural heritage be scrape , reuse and monetise by tech giant . we can not afford to sit back and wait for year . our creator deserve protection now , not after irreversible harm have be do . the amendment that we have before we today offer that protection . that be what the creative sector want , and I hope that the Government will take the amendment seriously . our creator simply ask to be treat fairly and compensate for all the work that they do , and they want to have the right to control how their work be use . transparency be where we now hoist our flag , and it be the hill we fight on . it be the most practical solution , and there be no technical reason why we can not have full transparency . there be no reason why artist , creator and inventor should not know that their work be be scrape by generative AI bot . there be no reason why we can not make sure that we deal with this and make sure that all our musician have the right to assert their right . the only thing stop that be a fear of anger the tech lobbyist , but we must take seriously the property right of 2 . 4 million creative who contribute £ 126 billion to the UK economy every year . the right hon . Gentleman have rightly refer to creative throughout the debate . as I have say in early debate , I be the secretary of the parliamentary group of the National Union of Journalists , and we have express our concern about journalist and photographer , whom we also represent . the union position be very straightforward , espouse adherence to copyright but also to openness and transparency , and regulation of the mechanism that will be use in future for scrape in particular . this be now have an impact on the quality of journalism , on which our democracy rest . the right hon . Gentleman be right to remind we about journalism . what have be notable , along with the clumsy way in which the Government have approach these issue , be the unity that exist throughout the creative sector , take on board what be happen in journalism . we have see some fantastic coalition of interest emerge from all this . that be another positive development , and I just hope that the Government be satisfied when they see the outcome . ai and creativity can work together . I give an example of that to the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) . we have all be encourage to think that there be a divergence between the position of those in the creative sector , such as artist , and the position of those who be involve in the tech sector and , in particular , AI . there should be an approach that work for everyone involve . the AI company know that our content be immensely valuable . they refuse to pay for anything at present , not because they do not understand the value but because they have spot an opportunity to hoodwink government around the world into believe that they should not have to pay for an essential resource . one of my colleague have a conversation with representative of the AI sector . she be very enthusiastic about the idea that there would be an enormous amount of growth in this country if they be able to adopt what they want , so she ask , " what would you like ? " they reply , " we want the BBC archive , for free . " in circumstance of this kind , we need to think not only about transparency but about the second stage , which be license . without the opportunity for small creator to have the power to permit and therefore to be pay , all this will be for nothing . the hon . Lady be spot on . the Minister continue to go on about licensing arrangement , and I think that be the territory we want to move this on to . we need to hear more about the Government ' s ambition right now , and about what they be plan to do . the hon . Lady should have a look at the submission to the consultation from the big tech company such as OpenAI — it be a horror show . an opt - out be even too far for they . I have enjoy work with Labour colleague during these debate . they have say all the right thing , and I think that , as usual , they recognise some of the difficulty in the sector , but I appeal to they now to support , in particular , new clause 2 , if it go to a vote . it be no good just say all the right thing ; this be about vote in the right direction . there be no other chance , because this be the only opportunity . we must offer some protection to our creative sector over the next few year , because nothing else will appear during that time . we will all become involved in the consultation and we will all be take part in the legislation when it come here , but that be year away . this be the only thing that we can do to offer some support to the creative sector , and I urge everyone to support the new clause . I welcome the opportunity to speak in support of the Bill and to address some of the amendment propose , particularly Government new clause 16 and 17 . new clause 17 be entitle " report on the use of copyright work in the development of AI system " . I be pleased to note , in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) , that the report will " the effect of copyright on access to , and use of , datum by developer of AI system ( for example , on text and datum mining ) " . I also note that " developer " be specifically break down into " individual , micro business , small business or medium - sized business " . it be right to provide for that level of granularity . similarly , I note that the report will " consider , and make proposal in relation to … the disclosure of information by developer of AI system about " their use of copyright datum to develop AI system and " how they access " that copyright datum , " for example , by mean of web crawler " . I be pleased to see discussion of licensing include in the report , and an exploration , again in granular detail , of the impact of a licensing system on all level of developer . however , I would have like to see an equal level of granularity for copyright owner to understand the effect of proposal outline in subsection ( 3 ) . subsection ( 4 ) state that " in prepare the report , the Secretary of State must consider the likely effect of proposal , in the United Kingdom , on … copyright owner " as well as developer and user of AI system . although I note that new subsection ( 4 ) refer to individual , microbusinesse and so on , I feel that there be a little vagueness as to whether this level of granularity be afford to copyright owner as well . that be not intentional . it be exactly the same level of granularity that we will go into in our reporting . well , I will just throw the rest of my speech away , then . I shall persevere . will the report explore the effect of the propose solution and the result protection on individual creator ? yes . micro creative business ? yes . and small publisher ? yes . right , so can I push it far ? no . there seem to be an awful lot of David Attenborough TikTok video , but it be not he . I wonder whether this measure will apply to personality right , and about the definition of a " small right owner " . I will just squeeze that in . personally , I be in favour of do something about personality right , but it be one of the thing that be in the consultation , to which will we respond . it be one of the thing for which we will need to legislate in the round . perfect . I ask the Secretary of State what reassurance can be give that small creative , include microbusinesse and small creative business , will be consider in the report so that they can have confidence that the system finally apply will work for they , particularly when we consider an individual ' s early career — think of Ed Sheeran strum away in his bedroom in his pre - fame day — and how they can protect their copyright work against the global tech giant . new clause 16 address the economic impact on both copyright owner and AI developer , and I want to switch from talk about copyright owner to try to defend the AI industry . if we do not get the control right , we risk the mid and long - term success of the AI industry . if we do not get a fair solution for the creative and AI industry , we risk a reduction in the quantity , and potentially in the quality , of human - create datum and an increase in AI - generate creative datum . I will briefly segue , because we be develop a lot of AI - create content that might be subject to copyright . a report recently point out that 18 % of spotify content be now ai - generate . People might remember the big hoo - ha when an AI - generate image win a photographic competition , which cause a lot of disturbance , but a lot of creative skill be involve in how the photographer develop and produce that image . no , it be not a photograph , but it be in a category of its own . I feel that be also creative content and copyright datum , so there be a grey area . if we start to generate more and more AI - create datum and less and less high - quality human - generate datum , because of the challenge to the creative industry , there be a danger that AI model will start scrape and training on AI - generate datum , potentially lead to a reductive spiral into mediocrity , with some even suggest that this could result in model collapse . on new clause 16 and 17 , I encourage the House to consider the impact of not employ proposal such as licensing and protect the generation of new human - create content , give the risk pose to AI model and developer in the long term . I will briefly comment on amendment 37 and 38 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) . she ably outline the reason for the amendment , so I will not go into a lot of detail , but I want to point out that get the definition correct will prevent a loophole whereby AI company can misuse personal datum by claim that their commercial development be scientific research . the amendment would provide transparency on the use of datum by researcher in order to maintain confidence in this country ' s ethical , legal and professional high standard in academic research . I hope the Minister will give careful consideration to the point I have raise . I be now go to give my Whip , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) , a heart attack because I be go to refer to amendment 41 to 46 to clause 80 on article 22 of the UK GDPR , which be close to my heart . she be not to worry , though ; I read those amendment with great interest and I understand the back - up they would provide , but although I be a newbie MP , as I read they — in my understanding , give the little work I do in my previous job with a regulator — I feel that they be more like secondary legislation . they could be consider for the future , particularly amendment 46 , which include some very welcome addition . however , when it come to primary legislation , I feel that the Bill work well as it stand . I want to go off - piste a little bit more to support my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) in try to make sure that we have accurate datum and fill in the gap that exist in database . it be important that we address that issue , and her new clause 22 and 23 be worthy of consideration . equally , I approach new clause 21 with an open mind , because it be vital that we collect biological sex datum to protect woman and tran people , but as I read it I have a develop sense of unease — because how do the determination of accuracy of datum impact on the individual , and if we start look at those two protect characteristic , what about the other ? I feel it be a little bit of a slippery slope ; I wonder if I would have to go around with my baptism certificate to prove my religion , and how would I prove my sexuality ? I be afraid I develop a grow unease about that new clause , but I support the idea of accurate data collection for both gender identity and biological sex , which be very important . I will not bore the House with information about where the alcohol dehydrogenase enzyme sit in male and female body , but there be a reason why man do not get drunk , or rather why woman get drunk more easily . oh , I be go to tell everyone , because I have start to do so — I will make it relevant . ADH in man be locate and primarily active in the stomach , while in woman it tend to be in the liver , so in man , alcohol get break down before it even get into the bloodstream ; it have nothing to do with body mass ratio . understand biology in that way highlight the importance of get accurate datum for health and scientific research , and with that extra knowledge about alcohol dehydrogenase enzyme , I will leave it there . rise — order . from the next speaker , there will be a five - minute time limit . as many member will be aware , my constituent Ellen Roome know only too well the tragedy that can take place as a result of social medium . I be pleased that Ellen join we in the Gallery to hear this debate in her pursuit of Jools ' law . in 2022 , Ellen come home to find her son Jools not breathe . he have tragically lose his life , age just 14 . in the follow month , Ellen battle the social medium giant — and she be still battle they — to try to access his social media datum , as she seek answer about what have happen lead up to his death . I be grateful to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , for raise this in his speech . in her search for answer , Ellen find herself block by social medium giant that place process ahead of compassion . the police have no reason to suspect a crime , so they do not see any reason to undertake a full investigation into Jools ' social medium . the inquest do not require a thorough analysis of Jools ' online account . none of the social medium company would grant Ellen access to Jools ' browse datum , and a court order be need to access the digital datum , which require eye - water legal fee . the legal system be unequipped to tackle the complexity of social medium . in the past , when a love one die , their family would be able to find such thing in their possession — perhaps in child ' s diary , in school book or in cupboard . however , now that so much of our life be spend online , personal datum be keep by the social medium giant . new clause 11 in my name would change that , although I understand that there be technical and legal difficulty . the Minister and the Secretary of State meet Ellen and I this morning , along with the hon . member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) , and we be grateful for the time they give we . my new clause will not go to a vote today , but we will keep push because Ellen and other parent like she should not have to go through this to search for answer when a child have die . I understand that there be provision in the Bill that will be step forward , but we will keep push and we will hold the Government ' s and all future government ’ foot to the fire until we get a result . it be great to meet this morning , although I be sorry it be so late and so close to report stage ; I wish it have be early . we be serious in the meeting this morning : we will do everything we possibly can to make sure that coroner understand both their power and their duty in this regard , and how they should be operate with family and the prosecute authority as well if necessary . we will also do everything we can to ensure that the technical company embrace the point that they need to look after the family of those who have lose love one when they be young . I thank the Minister for his intervention . he be absolutely right . there be clear issue of process here . there be differential approach across the country — different coroner take different approach and different police force take different approach . the word of Ministers have weight and I hope that coroner and police force be take note of what need to happen in the future so that there be proper investigation into the death of child who may have suffer misadventure as a result of social medium . on related matter , new clause 1 would gain the support of parent like Ellen up and down this country . we need to move far and fast on this issue of social medium and online safety — as this Government promise on various other thing — and I be pleased that my party have a very clear position on it . I will now turn to the issue of copyright protection . I hold a roundtable with creative in Cheltenham , which be home to many tech business and AI company . the creative industry in my town be also extremely strong , and I hear a lot of concern about the need to protect copyright for our creator . the industry , be worth £ 124 billion or more every year , remain concerned about the Government ' s approach . the effect of these issue on our culture should not be understate . we would be far poor both culturally and financially if our creative be unable to make a living from their artistic talent . I believe there be still a risk of the creative industry be undermine if the Government remove protection to the benefit of AI developer . I trust that minister be listen , and I know that they have be listen over the many debate we have have on this issue . if they be to remove those protection , they would tip the scale in favour of AI company at the cost of the creative industry . when we ask AI company and people in tech where the job be go to come from , the answer be just not there . the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) would reinstate copyright protection at all level of AI development and reinforce the law as it currently stand . it be only fair that when creative work be use for AI development , the creator be properly compensate . the Government have make positive noise on this issue in multiple debate over the last few month . that be a positive sign , and I think that in all part of this House we have develop a consensus on where thing need to move — but creative remain uneasy about the implication for their work and be await firm action . minister may wish to tackle this issue with future action , and I understand that it might not be deal with today , but our amendment would enable that to happen . they also have an opportunity today : nothing would send a strong signal than Government support and support from member from across the House for my hon . friend ' s amendment , and I implore all member to back they . I rise to speak to new clause 4 , 16 and 17 , but first let I say that this be a very ambitious and weighty piece of legislation . Most of we can agree on section or huge chunk of it , but there be anxiety in the creative industry and in the medium — particularly the local medium , which have have a very torrid time over the last few year through Brexit and the pandemic . I thank UK Music , the News Media Association and Directors UK for engage with I on this issue and the Minister for his generosity in afford time to Back Benchers to discuss it . AI offer massive opportunity to make public service and business more effective and efficient , and this will improve people ' s life . however , there be a fundamental difference between use AI to manage stock in retail or distribution , or for make scientific breakthrough that will improve people ' s health , and the generative AI that be use to produce literature , image or music . the latter affect the creative industry , which have consistently see fast and more substantial growth than the overall economy . the creative industry ' gross value add grow by over 50 % in real term compare with the overall UK economy , which grow by around a fifth between 2010 and 2022 . that be why the Government be right to have identify the creative industry as a central plank of their industrial strategy , and it be right to deliver an economic assessment within 12 month , as outline in Government new clause 16 and 17 . I welcome all that . I know it be not the Government ' s intention to deal with copyright and licensing as part of the Bill , but because of the anxiety in the sector the issue have become conflate . scrape be already happen , without transparency , permission or remuneration , in the absence of a current adequate framework . the pace of change in the sector , and the risk of tariff from across the pond , mean it be imperative that we deal with the threat pose to the creative industry as soon as possible . we be now face 100 % tariff on UK film go to the USA , which increase that imperative . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to engage with the creative industry and to implement a programme to protect they , follow consultation . I would welcome an overview from the Minister in his summing up about progress in that regard . the more we delay , the bad the impact could be on our creative sector . I be also concerned that in the Government ' s correct mission to deliver economic growth , they may inadvertently compromise the UK ' s robust copyright law . instead , we should seek to introduce change , so that creative ' work can not be scrape by big AI firm without provide transparency or remunerate the creative behind it . failure to protect copyright be not just bad for the sector as a whole , or the livelihood of author , photographer , musician and other ; it be bad for our self - expression , for how robust the sector can be , and for how it can bring community together and invite we to ask the big question about the human condition . allow creator to be uncredited and undercut , with their work strip of attribution and their livelihood dilute in a wave of synthetic imitation , will disrupt the creative market enormously . we be not talk about that enough . it be tempting to lure the big US AI firm into the UK , give the economy a sugar rush and attract billion of pound - worth of data centre , yet in the same breath we risk significantly drain economic value from our creative industry , which be one of the UK ' s most storied pillar of our soft power . none of this be easy . the EU have grapple with create a framework to deal with this issue for year without find an equitable solution . I do not envy what the Government must navigate . however , I ask the Minister about the report that emerge over the weekend , and whether the Government be move away from an opt - out system for licensing , which creative say will not work . will that now be the Government ' s position ? harness the benefit of AI — economic , social and innovative — be not diametrically oppose to ensure that the right of creative be protect . we must ensure transparency in AI , as cover in new clause 4 , so that tech company , some of which be in cahoot with some of the more troubling aspect of the US Administration , do not end up with the power to curate an understanding of the world that reflect their own peculiar priority . big AI say transparency will effectively reveal its trade secret , but that need not necessarily be the case , as my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) say . a simple mechanism to alert creator when their content be use be well within the ability of these sophisticated company . they just need the Government to prod they to do it . the Government be work hard . I know that they care passionately about the sector , and the economic and social value it bring . I look forward to hear how they will now move at pace to address the concern I have outline , even if they can not do so through the Bill . the Minister refer , in his opening remark , to the fact that the Bill have be a long time in its gestation . it be very nearly two year since the first meeting of the Bill Committee , which I attend , to take through what be pretty much an identical bill . at that time , it be uncontroversial and the opposition support it — indeed , I support it today . there be a lot of measure we have not discuss because they be universally accept , such as the national underground asset register , smart data provision and the relief on some of the burden of GDPR . I congratulate Baroness Kidron , who very successfully attach to the Bill amendment to address a different , but vital issue : protection of the creative industry with respect to copyright . therefore , I support new clause 2 to 6 , which be essentially Baroness Kidron ' s amendment that be pass in the House of Lords . the Minister say that it be not the intention to legislate at this time , that the Government want to wait and be consult , and that they have table two amendment . however , one of the measure be to conduct an economic impact assessment , which the Government would always have have to do anyway , and the other be to commission a report into such thing as technical standard and transparency . as the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) have point out , that will simply delay thing even long , and this be an issue that must be address now , because generative AI model be currently scrape and use material . in our view , the law be clear . the Minister ask why we need new clause 2 if all it say be that people should obey the law , and if we also believe the law be clear . one of the reason it be so important be that we can enforce the law only if we know that it be be break . that be why transparency be absolutely vital ; it be only with transparency that right owner can discover the extent to which their content be be use by generative AI , and then know how to take action against it . I absolutely agree that it be not that the creative industry be against artificial intelligence . indeed , a lot of creative be use it ; a lot of they be develop licensing model . however , for some , it be an existential question . on the point about transparency , the law be the law — it already exist . however , the law can be enforce , and people can be punish , only if action that break our current law come to light . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that this be another reason that new clause 2 be essential ? I completely agree . the hon . Gentleman have state the case : in order to enforce the law , we have to know who be break it . there be all sort of legal action already under way , but this issue be about the extent to which scraping be go on . I agree with the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) on the importance of newspaper and the press . the press face the particular problem of retrieval - augment generation — a phrase I do not think I would necessarily be introduce — which be the use of live datum , rather than historic datum ; if historic datum be use , it often produce the wrong result . the big tech company therefore rely on retrieval - augment generation , which mean use current live datum — that which be the livelihood of the press . it be absolutely essential for publisher that they should know when their material be be use and that they should have the ability to license it or not , as they choose . the issue the right hon . Gentleman be address be the immediacy of the threat within the journalistic sector at the moment . I miss the opening remark by both Front Benchers because I be in the debate on the personal independence payment , but I be sure my hon . friend the Minister be as eloquent as ever in advocate for the Government amendment ; he be a very persuasive fellow . however , those amendment be merely about publish a report in 12 month ' time — that be all . there will be part of the journalistic sector that will no long exist in 12 month ' time as a result of this legislation . I completely agree . I do not doubt the Minister ' s sincerity in want proper close examination , but this matter be urgent . new clause 2 and the associate measure simply state the law as it currently stand and give right owner the essential ability to know when their material be be use , so that they can choose whether they wish to license it , and , if they do not , to take action against its use . there be only one other point I want to raise today , as a number of speech have be make in this debate that have very eloquently set out the case for each of the new clause , include by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) , and indeed by the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) . for the other concern that I want to raise , the Minister will need to put his other hat back on for a moment . early in the day , he be speak as the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism about the threat from the possibility of tariff on the film industry . obviously , we be concerned about the general question of US tariff , and there be talk about try to achieve a trade deal — in the President ' s word , a " beautiful trade deal " — which would mean that the UK be protect . however , we be tell that one of the price that could be attach to such a deal could be relieve the burden of regulation on tech company . I be afraid that we know how the tech company define burdensome regulation . in their view , copyright be a burdensome regulation , not a legal obligation or moral right of rightsholder . I hope the Minister will make it clear that we will not sacrifice the right of creative industry and copyright owner in order to obtain a trade agreement and that , at the same time , we will not dilute other , very important digital legislation , such as the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 , which I understand be also potentially on the table . I will not speak any long , because the case have already be make . I will say only to the Minister that although it be clear that new clause 2 to 6 command quite a lot of support on both side of the House , I have no doubt that the Government will defeat they if they choose to do so tonight . however , he will be aware that they be originally make in the House of Lords , and he may find it hard if that House choose to push the amendment through . I would not like to be back here next year once again try to put through a data Bill because this one have fail . I rise to support the Government ' s amendment and new clause , particularly new clause 16 , which address the relationship between artificial intelligence and copyright and which I strongly welcome . by slightly broaden the scope of the Bill , the amendment demonstrate Ministers ' attention to this press detail and reflect some of the comment by colleague and the creative sector . the exist legal framework with regard to copyright be not fit for purpose in the face of new and develop AI technology . colleague who have much great expertise and knowledge than I have contribute to this debate , but I want to offer a reflection and draw attention to the experience of an individual — one of my constituent — as I believe it highlight the real human impact that big tech company can have in run rampant over copyright law . my constituent , Susan , be an author . she have have 32 of her book and , she calculate , more than 1 million publish word use by Meta without her consent . the pirating of material have serious human impact on those in the creative industry . Susan ' s life work and source of income be downgrade and devalue almost instantaneously . her intellectual property be access without her permission and use to inform an AI system design to mimic her work . Susan describe that to I and say that she feel violate , as if someone have come into her house and steal her thing , and she be not alone . I have be contact by other professional in the creative industry in my constituency who have also have publish material use without their consent by AI . a local author have have their work harness through an online library of pirated book , and a local illustrator say that her work be scrape to train an AI model with image and video take from website and social medium without her permission . that practice be widespread and plainly wrong , even to a lay observer who be not verse in technical expertise , yet rightsholder be often impotent against big tech company and their sizeable financial and legal asset . I observe that there be an issue of territoriality here . we have actually manage to get carve - out and protect this country from deepfake , for example ; if something be make abroad , it can not be use in this country . do my hon . friend agree that we should be able to have similar carve - out for creative , such as her constituent and my constituent , so that if AI - generate material be make elsewhere , it can not be deploy in this country , in order to preserve a proper legislative framework to protect the right of our creative ? my hon . friend highlight a very strong issue . I agree that our current copyright law be basically be infringe on and people who be rightsholder be unable to seek the recourse that they fully deserve under the law . there should be a carve - out , so that if there be illegal content in this country , people should have recourse to the law and be able to protect their own copyright material . I be pleased to see the Government commit to action on this complex issue . I hope that time will be allow in the House for we to scrutinise this issue and to investigate properly the impact of policy option , which will be consider as part of the consultation . I understand the complexity of legislate in this area , but those in the creative industry want to see action now , which be understandable . we must create a system that can feasibly and effectively enforce exist copyright law , bring transparency in the use of material by AI system , and remunerate right holder . I support the Government ' s plan to do this through primary legislation with proper scrutiny of the measure , rather than through an addendum to a broad piece of legislation . however , I appreciate that there be a balance to be strike — where growth be support in both the creative and tech industry — but creative must never be expect to forfeit their right to serve that purpose . as my constituent be at pain to point out , real people and real livelihood be already be impact by unregulated AI . it be crucial that we get this right , and provide much need legal certainty to protect intellectual property in the creative industry . this must happen soon , because , while infringement of copyright law go unaddresse , it be those in our vital creative industry who be lose out . rise — order . many people wish to speak in this debate , so before I call the next speaker I ask Members please to be mindful when take intervention . I will now impose a four - minute time limit . we live in a rapidly change world . like everyone else , I be sure that I be guilty of hand my datum to organisation every hour of every day , oblivious to the impact on my privacy . I be also guilty of absorb and use content assume that it be trustworthy and that it have be obtain fairly . on the other hand , my generation have be fortunate to have see the introduction of social medium and the online world , and to have experience the time before it , which perhaps provide we with a level of scepticism about what we see , and an ability to switch it off and distance ourselves from the onslaught to our sense that digital content can provide . like other intervention of the past , we be now at a crossroad where we must pause and not simply plough on . the Bill give we the opportunity to make it clear to the tech giant that we be not give they everything that we have create , that they can not own our child , and that we value our datum as part of our identity . some of the amendment give we a great opportunity to improve the Bill — to make the most of this moment in time and to make sure that we do not leave people behind . we know that child ' s brain continue to develop until they be in their early 20 . we know that young people ' s development lead they to be risk taker in their adolescence and teenage year , and , as adult , we sometimes have to take decision to curtail their fun to protect they . my own child have enjoy social medium from the age of 13 , but , as the sector develop , and our understanding of its addictive nature improve , it be critical that we reflect that in law . lift the age of consent for social medium data collection , as in new clause 1 , will help to protect our child at the time they need it . it be unimaginable to lose a child and to do so in the circumstance where the reason behind their death be unclear , which be why I sign new clause 11 table my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , which would allow bereaved parent access to their child ' s social medium content . this should not be necessary give that GDPR and privacy right do not apply to those who have die . the fact that we even need such legislation call into question the motivation of tech giant and tell we where their interest lie . I urge the Government to support this and welcome the assurance today that more work will be do . Trust be at an all - time low not only in the Government but in other authority such as the NHS . as AI change how we interact with the state , commerce and each other , the public should have a right to know how and when AI be involve in the decision make . transparency matter , which be why I be support the new clause propose by my hon . friend the Member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) . we know that if we use each other ' s content we must pay for it , or at least credit it if we be not profit from it . we know that if we do not , we infringe that copyright , so why should tech giant , probably base in some far - flung place , have a right to scrape that content without knowledge or payment ? the idea that they even need to train their system off the back of people who have use their talent and time and make their living through creativity be obscene . I really must speak strongly against new clause 21 . I have be overwhelm by the scale of distress bring about by this awful proposal . it be cruel and it completely undermine the privacy of people who be transgend at a time when they be already feel victimise . those who have transition socially , medically or surgically be protect in law , and we be tell that the Supreme Court decision last month do not change that . but new clause 21 do . if it be pass , sex at birth would be record on a drive licence or passport , out every trans person whenever they buy an age - restrict product , change their job , travel abroad , or even come to Parliament to visit their MP . not only be this a fundamental breach of privacy , but it be potentially dangerous . they would be prevent from travel to country with poor record on right , and they would be at high risk of suicide and self - harm than they already be . a constituent say , " this be a direct attempt to erase I from the public record . " please reject this new clause 21 . in the short time available to I , I want to speak to four amendment . on two of they , I would like to urge the Minister to think again . on one , I be in total agreement with the Minister that we should oppose it ; the other be one that I want to draw to the House ' s attention . first , I join the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) , my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) and the indomitable Baroness Kidron , who join we today from the Gallery , in encourage the Minister to look again at amendment on AI and copyright . we know that this problem will come back and that we need to move at pace . I represent Walthamstow , the home of William Morris , the creator and maker — and creative abound . at least William Morris could protect his wallpaper pattern . with the AI technology we see now move so quickly , unless we stand up for british copyright technology , we will be in a very different place . the Minister say that if we do not pass new clause 2 , we will still have copyright law tomorrow , and he be right , but we will not have the tool to deal with the technology we be deal with now . this issue be about not just the Elton Johns , the Ed Sheerans , the Richard Osmans or the Jilly Coopers , but the thousand of creator in our country — it be their bread and butter . nobody be oppose technology , but they be say that we need to act more quickly . I hope to hear from the Minister what he will do in this area . new clause 14 , which have not be select , be about the question of transparency and will help creative exercise their right . briefly , I want to support what the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) say about new clause 21 . I have always support the appropriate collection of datum , but this be not an appropriate collection of datum . it be a targeting of the trans community , which be deeply regressive . I praise the Government for what they be do with schedule 11 — and I wager that nobody else in this Chamber have look at it . the Victims and Prisoners Act receive Royal Assent in May 2024 . section 31 of the Act provide a mechanism to delete datum that have be create as part of a malicious campaign of harassment . schedule 11 be a technical amendment to GDPR law that will make that Act , which get cross - party support , possible to enact . for parent and carer , the thought that someone who disagree with they might use the auspex of social service to try to remove their child because of that disagreement be impossible to comprehend . it be a nightmare that I have live through myself . thank to my local authority , I be still live through it , because the record create by the person who do this to I remain on the statute book , along with the allegation that I be a risk to my child because of the view that I hold . the primary intent of the man who make this complaint be to trigger an investigation into my private life . the judge who convict he of harassment say that it be one of the bad example of malicious abuse in public life that he have see . the judge demand that the file be stricken , as do I when it first come to light and when the man be subsequently convict of harassment . however , Waltham Forest council continue to argue that they have to retain that datum to protect my own child from I . this be an example not of how datum be use to safeguard but how datum can be use to harm by its existence . it be not a benign matter to have such a record associate with one ' s name . anyone who have ever be to A & E know that the question , " be your child know to social service ? " be not a neutral inquiry . not have a way of remove datum design to harass will perpetuate the harassment . my local authority have not label the father who be mps in my borough in the same way , but it argue that it must retain this datum about I under section 47 of the Children Act 1989 , regard child who might reasonably be consider at risk of harm from an individual . to add insult to injury , the council have not offer to delete this datum but tell I that I can add to it a note to dispute the claim by the person who have be convict of harass I about my fitness to be a parent , and then the council might consider include the note — add more datum to a file , therefore , rather than remove it . that will keep the link between I , my family , these allegation and the gentleman who harass I in the first place . I have never receive any form of apology or acknowledgement . there have always be strong ground and legal process to remove malicious record . it be also right that we set a high bar , as the 2024 Act do . this consequential amendment in the Bill should now mean that the Government can use the affirmative resolution to make that law a reality . we can not delete the misogyny at the heart of Waltham Forest council ' s response , but we could finally delete the record and those of other like they and move on with our life — order . I call Steff Aquarone . my new clause 7 would ensure that , alongside the creation of a digital verification framework , there would be a right to use non - digital ID . Digital exclusion be a major challenge for many community around the country , include in North Norfolk . part of the answer be to improve digital education and bring those number down , but , as Age UK rightly say , " it will never be possible to get everyone online . " the progress we make in the digital age must ensure provision for those who will not be support by it , or that they be not leave behind or exclude . old people be not the only one who struggle with digital exclusion — poverty be also a significant driver . a study in 2021 show that more than half those who be offline earn less than £ 20 , 000 a year . the Government tell the Lords that if it turn out that people be be exclude , they could consider legislate , but how many people earn less than £ 20 , 000 a year will be take a business through the court — perhaps as far as the Supreme Court — to secure their right ? why be we wait for it to go wrong , place the onus on vulnerable people to generate test case and legal precedent when we could put this matter to bed once and for all with this simple addition to the Bill ? I will also speak in support of new clause 1 . it have become abundantly clear to we all that we can not trust the social medium giant to keep our child safe . in fact , I would go as far as to say that they have very little interest in keep child safe . the algorithm that drive these platform , which be design to keep user scroll for as long as possible to maximise ad revenue , can be deeply damaging to child and young people . it be important to emphasise just how pervasive the content stream can be . not every hon . Member may have experience it , but pervasive , target content be not the same as a child see something distress on the news . once see — if only fleetingly — there be the potential for they to be expose to unsubstantiated , misleading or even traumatic content , or version of that content , over and over again every few swipe as the algorithm realise it can suck they in , keep they scroll and make profit for its social medium giant . that be not what social network set out to do , but it be what they have become . whatever the social medium giant tell the Government or the opposition , whether " it be too complex , " " it would cost too much , " or , " the flux capacitor be not big enough , " that be just rubbish . if we simply remove the right to process personal datum for under 16 , we would remove the algorithm ' ability to target they with content base on what they say and do . if the social network care about child ' s wellbee , they would have do that already . I hope that today we will finally take the action necessary to protect the next generation . overall , my view on the Bill remain broadly similar to the frustration I express month ago on Second Reading . there be important , commendable and sensible stuff in the Bill , and I welcome that , but what be not in the Bill be more frustrating , as it could have put it in a much well position to harness the power of datum . we could have address the litany of failure in public sector datum use that the Government ' s own review outline just month ago . we could be equip our civil service and public sector with the talent , culture and leadership to make we a global trailblazer in data - drive government . it be really frustrating that the Bill do not contain any of the step necessary to make those improvement . if we use datum well , we do government well . I be sure that the whole House and all our constituent be keen to see that . as all hon . member in the Chamber know , datum be the dna of our modern life . it drive our economy , our NHS and our public service , often silently but ultimately powerfully . for too long , outdated datum infrastructure across the british state have hold we back , cost we billion and drain frontline resource . this ambitious Bill set out to change that , so it should be welcome . for our NHS , the Bill will mean fast and safe care . more transferable and accurate patient datum could save 140 , 000 hour of staff time annually , reduce duplicate lab test , prevent up to 20 death each year from medication error and improve overall patient safety and outcome — that be real impact . it will also free up 1 . 5 million hour of police time , let officer spend more time on our street , not behind desk . the national underground asset register , as have be mention , could bring £ 4 billion to our economy by prevent costly infrastructure delay and accident . the Bill will seek not just to cut red tape , but boost research , protect personal datum and allow scientist and online safety expert to well access information to keep we all safe . I welcome that . on Government amendment 16 on artificial intelligence and the creative industry , we have all see the potential of AI , but that promise must not come at the expense of those who create . in that regard , I thank the dozen of constituent who have contact I about their concern . I welcome the Government ' s recognition of the complex intersection between AI and copyright , and the need to get this right . it be clear that we must tread carefully and base any change on robust evidence . I be therefore pleased that the Government be commit to publish a full economic impact assessment and report to Parliament on key concern , such as how AI developer access copyright material , the transparency of their method and licensing . I will also continue to support Equity with its work on the principle of personality right . new clause 21 propose mandatory recording of sex at birth across all public authority . the new clause would require all public authority , whether the NHS , which I could potentially understand , or the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency , which I certainly could not , to record and retain people ' s sex at birth even when someone have a gender recognition certificate . the new clause would seemingly require that regardless of context , purpose or relevance . that feel neither proportionate nor respectful of exist legal framework or the trans community at this difficult time . it be important that we acknowledge that transgender , non - binary and intersex people already face considerable barrier in public life , and many of my constituent have share with I in recent week just how much fear and uncertainty they be experience . rush amendment and change , without dialogue with those impact , be not in any way welcome and could have very negative consequence . finally , on the theme of privacy , proportionality and protect vulnerable people , will the Minister say whether any step will be take by his Department to end the collection and sharing of sensitive personal datum when people use police , public , university or other website to report crime or abuse and the subsequent sharing of that datum with third party through track pixel ? the use of such tool mean people inadvertently share information with advertiser . I hope the Government will look into that and take it seriously . I be glad to add my name to new clause 1 to 6 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) . I speak to new clause 1 on the age of datum consent . currently in the UK , the minimum age of digital consent — the age at which child can consent to have their datum process — be 13 . the new clause would raise the minimum age for social medium datum processing to 16 , mean social medium company would not be able to process the datum of child for their algorithm . I hope that that would allow child to enjoy many of the educational benefit and relevant service that social medium can offer , as well as continue to enjoy the freedom of engage with friend but without the risk of addictive algorithmic content . the mental health issue associate with social medium use in young people , particularly child , should be treat as a public health crisis . the Government be miss a vital opportunity with this legislation to reform how social medium be use by not include provision around child ' s online safety . the Bill offer an important opportunity to start the process of remove harmful social medium mechanism and , as such , I urge the Minister to support the new clause . new clause 2 to 6 would ensure transparency in how AI system be train and give right holder more control over the use of their work . concern about the impact of AI on the creative industry have be raise hundred of time by my constituent and I have be raise those concern in Parliament for year . in my Westminster Hall debate back in February 2023 on artificial intelligence and intellectual property right , I raise my concern about the bypassing of copyright law in relation to AI and intellectual property with the former Conservative Government . however , the former Minister blame the lack of the former Government ' s action to introduce regulation for creative , associate with the rise of AI , on the political turmoil in the Tory leadership at that time , and their neglectful attitude towards leadership be mirror in their attitude towards introduce protection for creative in this space . their conclusion from my Westminster Hall debate be " not to legislate in period of political turmoil " — [ Official Report , 1 February 2023 ; Vol . 727 , c . 163WH . ] and the need for " more deep consultation " , which do not materialise . I think we can all be glad that the chaos of that Government be in the past . however , we be yet to see the introduction of thorough and robust copyright law relate to artificial intelligence , which be fundamental to the success of the UK ' s world - lead creative industry . I hope this Government will act upon that today by accept the new clause . I wish to reiterate the importance of these new clause in ensure that AI model be bind by exist copyright law , increase datum and identity transparency for crawler and model , and empower creator to take legal action against developer who fail to comply . the creative industry , like all sector , will have to adapt to accommodate AI , but the industry be capable of and already make progress with that . creative have largely accept that AI - generate content will have its place in the market , and they be already use AI to enhance their work by drive efficiency and extend their reach to new market . however , a solid regulatory framework , which could be create with the addition of these amendment , be essential to protect their right and ensure that they can take part in value creation and retain control over their work . my colleague and I believe that exist copyright law should be enforce to protect the UK ' s creative industry , which be a world - lead british export . it be recently reveal that nearly 200 , 000 youtube video , include material create by globally recognise british musician , news channel and artist , have be scrape into a dataset use to train AI model . content from over 40 , 000 creative have be find in that dataset , yet consent be not seek from a single impact creator to use their copyright work . this be not a unique case . I ask 200 creative about their experience with AI and copyright . I hear repeatedly of negative experience , include one individual who have 600 image take to train AI model without their knowledge . it be clear that AI offer a fantastic opportunity for our economy . however , it must supplement and grow industry , rather than replace they wholesale . I be delighted to be call to speak on Report of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill . I draw member ' attention to my membership of the Writers ' Guild of Great Britain . before I enter this place , I work as a freelance screenwriter , create drama for adult and child . I might add that child be the hard audience to please — it use to be that we have five minute to hook they , but now it be more like five second . speed be the subject of my contribution today . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s engagement on how good to protect our peerless creative industry . in that spirit , I be pleased to see new clause 16 and 17 and the commitment to address the fundamental issue of transparency . at the moment , AI company do not have to tell anyone what they be steal from the internet , from whom they be steal and why they be steal it . although I appreciate the Government ' s position that they want more time , I worry that in the gap between this Bill become law and a new Bill that address transparency and copyright come forward , everything that can be scrape will be scrape . twelve month be a long time , and plenty of time for AI company to continue crawl over original copyright material without a care in the world . for some part of the creative industry , 12 month will be 12 month too long . necessity be the mother of invention , and without a legal instruction for AI company to reveal what they be use free of charge , there be surely no incentive for the AI industry to come up with the solution to make it simple for original creator and collect society to assert their right . new clause 2 to 6 include call for the operator of web crawler and AI model to legally disclose what they be do right now . although I understand why the Government may not support the new clause , will the Minister at least commit to place a clear power to regulate in the Bill ? the creative industry be nervous , spook by the previously state preference for an opt - out model , and such a move would calm nerve and indicate that the Government understand the pace at which the situation be develop and recognise the need for action . recently , here in Westminster , Bj ö rn from ABBA speak in favour of clear transparency . perhaps the sad ABBA song be " the winner take it all " , inspire by break - up in the band between the As and the Bs . we must ensure that this be not a divorce of two industry that lead to the creative partner be leave with the equivalent of the coffee table and the dog . the tech industry need we more than we need it , so it should be honest , tell we what it be do behind our back and pay up . when all be say and do , this Government need to send a message now that we have the back of our creative industry and that legal protection be our absolute priority . I rise to speak to new clause 15 , but I also want to associate myself with the many right hon . and hon . member who have speak up for our creative industry . our most talented and creative mind have not be get fair representation from the Government up to now , and this have be a very interesting , well informed and , hopefully , influential debate today . new clause 15 be about privacy , safety and provide a dedicated complaint procedure for individual include victim of modern slavery , domestic abuse , gender - base violence and for other at risk of serious harm if their personal datum be mishandle . this be not a theoretical question . last November , the Independent report on Lola , a domestic abuse victim whose home address be leak to her ex - partner by a company that obtain restrain order . she say that she be leave fear for her life . as the Open Rights Group have lay out in its briefing , the Information Commissioner ' s Office be not function as it should be in case such as this . I have many example — include how Charnwood district council send detail of the new address of an abused woman directly to her abuser at her former address , so that her abuser know where she live — yet people place at risk in this way currently have no mean of challenge the Information Commissioner ' s Office if it fail to take the right action , which happen too often . new clause 15 simply propose dedicated procedure to support vulnerable people make complaint and a right to appeal to the Information Tribunal , a route currently available to large tech firm but not to the people harm by their practice . I hope that Ministers will take these proposal up . on other amendment , I fully back the Liberal Democrats on new clause 2 to 6 , which I be sign up to . I personally will abstain from vote on the Liberal Democrats ' new clause 1 and on the Conservatives ' new clause 19 . this be because , although I be minded to increase the age of digital consent from 13 , give the wide implication of harmful content and datum that can be collect and use to do harm , my discussion locally with parent and young people in Brighton Pavilion have lead I to want to properly include both group in any decision on what that new age should be , give that it would cut people off from social medium . we must have rapid and real process of deliberation on this issue as soon as possible that be not just consultative but collaborative . finally , new clause 21 be of serious concern to my constituent , and I agree with they and TransActual that it would constitute a gross violation of privacy right by create a mass outing of trans people . subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) of this new clause even go so far as to seek to revert historical change make to someone ' s gender marker . I urge the Government to reject this and to act far to protect trans right more broadly . I rise to speak to my new clause 14 and amendment 10 . furthermore , I would like to make note of my steadfast opposition to new clause 21 , which do not simply change data collection . it propose to mark and track individual base on " sex at birth " , regardless of their live reality , legal recognition or consent . no one — not a Government , not a public authority , not a politician — have the right to define who another person be ; only the individual can do that . this be a fundamental principle of dignity and respect that transcend political view and legal debate . we must reject new clause 21 . move on to my new clause 14 , it be widely accept that AI have already ingest everything on the internet , whether it be music , film or book , yet there be no legal requirement on these company to disclose what they have use , make it difficult for musician and author to enforce their right and , crucially , to be pay for their work . so I urge the Minister to give a commitment to legislate for transparency to protect the creative industry . I note the Government ' s new clause 16 and 17 as a starting point , but we both know that we want to see a thriving licensing market between content creator and AI developer . a transparency commitment today would enable that license market as creator would be in a position to enforce their right and demand fair pay . there would be certainty for AI developer , remove the risk of mitigation in the future . without transparency , there be no incentive for AI firm to reach agreement with creator , and billionaire - own tech firm will continue to rip off musician , filmmaker and author . do my hon . friend agree that new technology should be a tool to improve life , not just a mechanism for funnel more wealth and power into the hand of already super - rich corporation ? do he agree that the Bill would benefit from go even far in provide great transparency ? my new clause 14 would do that , so I hope the Government be take note . this debate be not just about economic right . last week I learn about the holocaust survivor Renee Salt , whose book " A Mother ' s promise " be rip by AI , with similarly name book appear online day after the original be release . there can be no starker contrast than renee share her most traumatic experience for the benefit of other , and a computer algorithm steal from a Holocaust survivor to profit from her suffering . we must stand up for the human creativity that help we to process the world we live in , or the world will become a much dark place . I table amendment 10 , which relate to safe data transfer , in order to confront a glaring weakness in our current data protection regime through the continue transfer of UK user datum to jurisdiction that can not and do not provide basic legal protection or enforceable right . the need for the amendment be not theoretical . under current rule , company often rely on a set of contract — international data transfer agreement — as proof that data transfer will be adequately protect . however , that assumption be increasingly prove to be false . the Irish Data Protection Commission fine TikTok € 530 million after an in - depth inquiry into its transfer of European Economic Area user datum to China . the irish authority find that TikTok have fail to adequately assess whether chinese law provide a level of protection " essentially equivalent " to that guarantee under GDPR — the General Data Protection Regulation . the ruling be possible because there be no credible legal remedy in China . law such as the national intelligence law , the cyber - security law and the anti - terrorism law compel organisation to provide access to datum without judicial oversight or meaningful recourse for individual . China be unable to provide a level of protection " essentially equivalent " to that guarantee in the Data Protection Act 2018 and in this Bill . contract alone do not protect user when the legal system of the receive country be incompatible with fundamental right . this amendment introduce a clear rule : where there be no meaningful enforcement of datum right , no independent judiciary , no administrative remedy or no legal path to challenge unlawful access , such country will be deem unsafe for UK datum transfer . the Bill must address this critical blind spot . contract alone can not ensure user right in jurisdiction that offer no legal safeguard . this amendment provide a principled , legally sound and urgently need response to a real - world threat . I hope that the Minister , give his background , will take these issue seriously and meet I to look far at how we can close this loophole . our nominal minimum age for social medium usage in this country come from a well - mean piece of american legislation originally pass in 1998 . the age do not have to be 13 . back in 1998 it be go to be 16 , but it be change to 13 . with the birth of GDPR , the age do not have to be 13 : the default be 16 . various country , include Germany , the Netherlands and Ireland , select 16 , but we select 13 . that mean that at the age of 13 people can sign up to social medium , have their behaviour track for the purpose of target content and ad , start their own channel , have multiple id and make decision about what detail of their private life they share . many people believe that , because of brain development , 13 be too young to make some of those decision reliably , and that there be real downside , risk and danger from the combination of social medium and the ready availability of a handheld electronic device . for child , there be addictive feature , an effect on sleep , an ease of make unwanted content , rabbit hole to fall down and corrosive content that play on the insecurity of adolescence . objection to raise the age to 16 be normally centre around worry that pro - social application will be hit and that there will be unintended consequence , such as child not be able to seek help if they in an abusive family , or to find information about contraception or whatever else they may need to know . indeed , those be some of the reason why , back in 1998 , the age of 16 become 13 , and those reason come up again here in the debate over GDPR . as such , I word new clause 12 to demonstrate how we could do it without lose anything , by have very broad category of exemption . however , even with those exemption , the Government would still be able to say — I be sure they will , and will say some of the same thing about new clause 1 shortly — that new clause 12 be technically inadequate , word badly and contain the wrong exemption , and that there would be unintended consequence . new clause 19 , though , which be table by the official Opposition , be almost impossible to argue against , because it contain the default position that these exemption will change ; under its provision , those change would be subject to review , which would ensure that all those consideration be take into account . I want to speak briefly to amendment 9 , which I will not move , but which deal with age check . whatever the nominal age might be , it be irrelevant if nobody actually enforce it . the Online Safety Act 2023 say that social medium company should enforce their own age limit , but that be often do through very simple method of self - declaration that be easy to circumvent . there be a question about how we interpret the wording of that Act , which say that age check must be do " consistently " . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that self - regulation just do not work in many industry ? we can look at sewage report in the water industry , or at the AI and tech company , which will use our datum and not tell the regulator that they be do so . there be a real need to strengthen the regulation . the hon . Gentleman tempt I to broaden the debate , which I do not think you would encourage I to do at this late stage , Madam Deputy Speaker . however , he make a very important point about self - regulation in this sector . the public , parent , and indeed child look to we to make sure we have their good interest at heart . the Online Safety Act may only say that age minima should be enforce " consistently " rather than well , but I do not think the will of this Parliament be that it would be okay to enforce a minimum age limit consistently badly . what we mean be that if the law say right now that the age minimum be 13 , or if it be 16 in the future — or whatever other age it might be — company should take reasonable step to enforce it . there be more checking than there use to be , but it be still very limited . the recent 5right report on Instagram ' s teen account say that all its avatar be able to get into social medium with only self - report birth date and no additional check . that mean that many thousand of child under the nominal age of 13 be on social medium , and that there be many more thousand who be just over 13 but who the platform think be 15 , 16 or 17 , or perhaps 18 or 19 . that , of course , affect the content that be serve to they . either Ofcom or the ICO could tighten up the rule on the minimum age , but amendment 9 would require that to happen in order for company to be compliant with the ICO regulation . the technology do exist , although it be hard to implement at the age 13 than at 18 — of course , the recent Ofcom change be all about those under the age of 18 — but it be possible , and that technology will develop far . ultimately , this be about back parent who have a balance to strike : they want to make sure that their child be fully part of their friendship group and can access all those opportunity , but also want to protect they from harm . parent have a reasonable expectation that their child will be protect from wholly inappropriate content . I rise to speak to new clause 1 and 11 , and briefly to new clause 2 . the Liberal Democrats believe that the Government have miss a trick by not include in this Bill strong provision on child ' s online safety . it be time for we to start treat the mental health issue arise from social medium use and phone addiction as a public health crisis , and to act accordingly . we know that child as young as nine and 10 be watch hardcore , violent pornography . by the time they be in their teen , it have become so normalise that they think violent sexual act such as choke be normal — it certainly be not when we be teenager . girl be starve themselves to achieve an unrealistic body image because their reality be warp by airbrush image , and kid who be struggle socially be suck in by content promote self - harm and even suicide . one constituent tell I , " I set up a TikTok account as a 13 - year - old to test the horror , and half a day later have self - harm content dominate on the feed . I do not search for it ; it find I . what kind of hell be this ? it be time we give our child back their childhood . " new clause 1 would help to address the addictive nature of endless content that reel child in and keep they hooked . it would raise the minimum age for social medium datum processing from 13 to 16 right now , mean that social medium company would not be able to process child ' s datum for algorithmic purpose . they would still be able to access social medium to connect with friend and access relevant service , which be important , but the new clause would retain exception for health and educational purpose , so that child who be seek help could still find it . we know that there be a correlation between great social medium use among young people since 2012 and worsen mental health outcome . teacher tell I regularly that child be struggle to concentrate and stay awake because of lack of sleep . some be literally addicted to their phone , with 23 % of 13 - year - old girl in the UK display problematic social medium use . the evidence be before we . it be time to act now — not in 18 month and not in a couple of year . the addictive nature of the algorithm be pernicious , and as legislator we can do something about it by agree to this new clause 1 . it be time to go far . this Bill do not do it , but it be time that we devise legislation to save the next generation of teenager from the horror of online harm . Ofcom ' s new child ' s code provide hope that someone tick a box to say they be an adult will no long be enough to allow access to adult site . that be a good place to start ; let we hope it work . if it do not , we need to take quick and robust action to move far with legislation . give the nature of the harm that exist online , I also support new clause 11 and strongly urge the Government to support it . no parent should have to go through the agony experience by Ellen Roome . lose a child be horrific enough , but be refuse access to her son ' s social media datum to find out why he die be a second unacceptable agony . that must be change , and all isp should be compel to comply . new clause 11 would make that happen . I hear what the Minister say about coroner , but I strongly believe that legislation be need , with a requirement to release datum or provide access to their child ' s account for any parent or guardian of someone under 18 who have die . there be , as far as I can see , no reason not to support this new clause . briefly , I echo call from across the House to support new clause 2 in support of our creative . creativity be a uniquely human endeavour . like other , I have be contact by many creator who do not want their output steal by AI company without consent or permission . it be vital that AI company comply with copyright legislation , which clearly have to be update to meet the requirement of the brave new world of tech that we now live in . I rise to confirm my agreement with new clause 1 and 12 , and I associate myself with the speech of the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) . I have have several email on the protection of copyright information and revenue stream for artist , include from Yvonne , who contact I recently . it be essential that the creative art and intellectual property be protect and that artist be properly compensate if their output be use in AI . on new clause 1 and 12 , the case for raise the age of consent for datum processing from 13 to 16 have be well make across the House , so I will not repeat the point make , but I will say that it be essential that we give our child their childhood back . they need to be protect from the toxic content to which they be be expose by social medium and online . new clause 3 to 6 and new clause 14 would place transparency requirement on AI company to report on what information and datum they have use , from where , and with what permission . that be essential to hold the AI company to account and to ensure that content holder and datum owner be inform and have adequate channel of redress for misuse of their information . I be sure that new clause 7 be speak about while I be out of the Chamber , but let I say now that the right for our citizen to use non - digital verification be key . my mother — who be in her late 60 , bless she — would not have a clue what to do if she do not have family to help she with her benefit claim , doctor ' prescription , appointment and so on . we can not exclude million of our citizen who may choose not to have smartphone and not to be expose to toxic content online , or who be simply not tech - literate . I urge the Government to ensure that we do not exclude million of our citizen . I also strongly support new clause 11 , but I will defer to early speaker in that regard . as for new clause 18 , many constituent have write to I or speak to I , express concern about share their NHS and other private datum with third party such as Palantir . it be essential for this new Government to adopt a posture of support ethical , transparent business practice for all supplier who provide service in our country . we have already hear about the background of Palantir . I do not know how true this be , but some of my constituent believe , or have read , that during the Prime Minister ' s first visit to the US , after meet Donald Trump he visit Palantir ' s headquarters , or one of its office . I urge the Government to protect — order . the hon . Gentleman ' s time be up . I rise to speak in strong support of new clause 1 and 2 . new clause 1 seek to raise the age of consent for social medium datum processing from 13 to 16 . as the father of two young boy , I be deeply concerned about the way in which tech platform engineer addiction , manipulate attention , and shape childhood in way that parent and even government can not easily counter . this be not hypothetical ; it be the reality that our child be live every day . child aged 13 to 15 be especially vulnerable . those social media algorithm do not just show content . they shape belief , reinforce insecurity and amplify harm . whether it be body image filter , content promote self - harm or endless scrolling , these platform be design for engagement , not wellbee . the new clause would not ban young people from use social medium . it simply say that their datum should not be exploit for commercial gain without genuine , inform consent . by raise the age to 16 for these specific practice , we align with international good practice and the United Nations convention on the right of the child . with clear exemption for education and health platform , this be a targeted and proportionate reform that prioritise child ' s mental health . new clause 2 deal with copyright compliance and AI . as we all know , the AI revolution be here , but just as we would not let a factory operate by steal its raw material from other , we should not let AI model train on copyright work , such as book , music or journalism , without permission or payment . the new clause make one clear demand : if an AI system operate in the UK , it must respect UK copyright law , regardless of where the server be base . we be stand up for our creator — for the author , musician , film - maker and developer whose work give AI its power . in Wales alone , the creative industry turn over £ 1 . 5 billion in 2023 , employ more than 37 , 000 people . let we not wait for lawsuit or damage to our industry . the new clause provide legal clarity , defend creator , and affirm that Parliament , not silicon valley , write the rule . these liberal Democrat new clause be principle , practical and long overdue , and I urge all member to support they . I call the shadow Minister . it have be a pleasure to hear the speech of Members from across the House . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , who speak with passion about the protection of copyright in AI . I suspect that my right hon . friend be look forward to see the back of the Bill , and hope that it do not return in a future iteration . my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) speak of the importance of ensure that datum do not fall victim to hostile state and hostile state actor . my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) speak with knowledge and authority about this important issue , and the challenge and practicality involve in ensure that we get it right for our child . I will return to the three theme that we have put forward . the Minister have repeatedly give assurance on the application of copyright with regard to AI training , but the Secretary of State create uncertainty by say in the AI copyright consultation : " at present , the application of UK copyright law to the training of AI model be dispute . " when we create that level of uncertainty , we need at least an equal level of clarity to make amend , and that be partly what our new clause 20 call for : among other thing , a formal statement from the Intellectual Property Office or otherwise . I do not see why it be a challenge for the Government to put that forward and deliver . our new clause 19 focus on the use of inappropriate social medium service by under - 16s , and on protection for child . for those watch online , I will summarise the three position that I have hear . it seem that the Government position be , " we don ' t want to think about it , so let ' s leave thing as they be . " the Lib Dem position be , " we don ' t want to think about it , but let ' s bring in a blanket ban . " our position be very much , " think about it , get it into a workable and effective position , and then improve the protection for our child . " I would just like to clarify that we have think long and hard about this Bill , along with many organisation and charity , to get it right . that be good to hear . I will try a third time , because we try early . the Conservatives have clearly brief the press that they be angle for a ban on social medium for under - 16 — it have be report in multiple place . can the shadow Minister confirm whether that be the Conservatives ' position or not ? for the fourth time , and as I have say , new clause 19 would effectively create a de facto position whereby there be restriction on the use of inappropriate social medium service by child . it seek to tackle the challenge of implementation , age verification and the scope of social medium . it say that there need to be work to make sure that we can actually do so and that , when we can , we should move in that direction , unless there be overwhelming evidence that it be not need , such as with the shake out of the Online Safety Act . finally , I return to new clause 21 . sadly , it have be widely misrepresent . the law in this area be clear : the Equality Act put in place obligation in relation to protect characteristic . the Supreme Court say that " sex " mean biological sex , and that public authority must collect datum on protect characteristic to meet their duty under the Equality Act . the new clause would put that clear legal obligation into effect , and build in datum minimisation principle to preserve privacy . there would be no outing of tran people through the new clause , but where public authority collect and use sex datum , it would need to be biological sex datum . as ever , it be good to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have take part in the debate . if I do not manage to get to any of the individual issue that have be raise , and to which people want answer , I be afraid that be because of a shortness of time , and I will seek to write to they . I thank the official who help to put the Bill together , particularly Simon Weakley — not least because he not only do this Bill , but all the previous version in the previous Parliament . he deserve a long - service medal , if not something more important . I will start with the issue around new clause 1 , 11 , 12 and 13 , and amendment 9 . the Government completely share the concern about the vulnerability of young people online , which lot of member have refer to . however , the age of 13 be set in the Data Protection Act 2018 — I remember , because I be a member at the time . it reflect what be consider at the time to be the right balance between enable young people to participate online and ensure that their datum be protect . some change to protect child online be already in train . as of last month , Ofcom finalise the child safety code , a key pillar of the Online Safety Act . Guidance publish at the same time start a three - month period during which all in - scope service likely to be access by child will be require to assess the risk of harm their service pose to they . from July , the Act will require platform to implement measure to protect child from harm , and this be the point at which we expect child user to see a tangible , positive difference to their online experience . I wish it have be possible for all this to happen early — I wish the Act have be in a different year — but it be the Act it be . the new provision include highly effective age check to prevent child encounter the most harmful content , and adjust algorithm to reduce the exposure to harmful content . service will face tough enforcement from Ofcom if they fail to comply . the Act very much set the foundation for protect child online . the Government continue to consider further option in pursuit of protect child online , which be why the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology commission a feasibility study to understand how good to investigate the impact of smartphone and social medium on child ' s wellbee . this will form an important part of our evidence base . will the Minister give way ? I be go to come to the right hon . member ' s amendment in a moment . the study be be lead by Dr Amy Orben of Cambridge University , and it be support by scientist from nine of the UK ' s premier university , all with establish expertise in this field . the study will report to the Government this month on the exist evidence base , ongoing research and recommendation for future research that will establish any causal link between smartphone , social medium and child ' s wellbee . the Government will publish the report along with the plan next step to improve the evidence base in this area to support policy making . consider the extra work we be do , I hope Members will not press their amendment . will the Minister give way ? I be afraid that I will not give way . on new clause 13 , table by the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) , we share the concern that child ' s datum in education must be safeguard . we have already commit to instruct the Information Commissioner ' s Office to produce a statutory code of practice on the use of child ' s datum by edtech service once the finding of their audits have be publish . we believe that define the scope of the code in legislation now or impose a six - month deadline for its publication risk undermine that evidence - lead process . amendment 9 , table by the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , seek to ensure that platform adopt strong age - assurance mechanism when design their service under the new child ' s high protection matter duty in clause 81 . of course , we subscribe to that policy aim , but the clause already strengthen UK GDPR by require provider of information society service to take account of how child can well be protect and support when they be design their processing activity . the ICO ' s age - appropriate design code will be update to provide clear and robust guidance on how service can meet these obligation , include through proportionate risk - base age assurance , where appropriate . I will take the right hon . member ' s intervention if he want — he ask first — but I be afraid I have to be very careful because I have a lot of question to answer . very quickly , I want the Minister to confirm that the Ofcom child ' s code , to which he have refer , be all about the 18 age threshold . they be a very welcome move to filter out wholly inappropriate content that be design for over - 18 and other very harmful content , but they do not do anything for the initial threshold — the age minimum — at age 13 . the right hon . Member make a fair point . will the Minister give way ? I be terribly sorry , but I do need to crack on because I have very little time . I have not yet mention new clause 21 and amendment 39 and 40 . let I start by say that the Government accept the Supreme Court ruling , but it be paramount that we work through this judgment carefully , with sensitivity and in line with the law . we can not simply flick a switch ; we must work through the impact of this judgment properly , recognise that this be broad than datum use by digital verification service . I reflect the comment make early by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , when he say that data accuracy be important . I thank my hon . friend for give way . Trans people and tran - lead group have be very concerned by new clause 21 table by the Opposition . they have rightly describe it as an attack on trans people ' s right and their privacy . can the Minister offer some reassurance that , as well as oppose this amendment today , the Government will not seek to introduce similar legislation via other mean in the future ? we be oppose the amendment and be not intend to introduce similar legislation . as I say , datum accuracy be important . that be equally true for any datum use in a digital verification service . that be why the Government be already engage in an appropriate and balanced range of work on data standard and datum accuracy . we be already develop datum standard on the monitoring of diversity information , include sex , via the Data Standards Authority . follow a review , the Office for Statistics Regulation publish update guidance on collect and report datum and statistic about sex and gender identity last year , and all Government Departments be now consider how good to address the recommendation of the Sullivan review , which we publish . that be the first reason why we will not be support this new clause or the amendment today . simply , we believe the concern regard the way in which public authority process sex and gender datum should be consider holistically , take into account the effect of the Supreme Court ruling and the specific and particular requirement of public authority . by contrast , the new clause and the amendment would undermine the work the Government be already do . give the Secretary of State a new regulatory rule would undermine the exist process that ensure compliance with the UK ' s data protection . secondly , the new clause be misplace because the Bill do not alter the evidence which can be rely upon to prove sex or gender . indeed , it do not seek to alter any of the content of datum use by digital verification service . instead , the Bill enable people to do digitally what they can presently do physically , and it be for organisation to consider what specific information they need to verify in their particular circumstance . any inconsistency between what they can do digitally and what they can do physically would obviously sow further division . thirdly , the new clause be unnecessary , because it be very unlikely that digital verification service would be use in many , if not all , of the case specifically raise by or with hon . member , such as within the NHS to gain access to single - sex ward or for screening or to enter other female - only space . we expect digital verification service to be use primarily to prove thing such as one ' s right to work , or one ' s age , address or professional or educational qualification , which be not matter where sex or gender be relevant at all . fourthly , the new clause go significantly far than the finding of the Supreme Court . finally , the proposal have the potential to interfere with the right to respect for private and family life under the Human Rights Act by require public authority to record sex as biological sex in all case regardless of whether it be justify or proportionate in that give circumstance . in addition , the amendment do not take account of the fact that the Gender Recognition Act 2004 give those with gender recognition certificate a level of privacy and control over who have access to information about their gender history . as for amendment 39 , it will create further uncertainty as it appear to prevent use of clause 45 in all case involve sex . as I have set out , while I understand the reason for table these amendment , I fear they would create legal confusion , uncertainty and inconsistency . I also note that they be not part of the previous Government ' s version of this Bill , in which in nearly all respect this part of the Bill be identical to ours . give the narrow scope of digital verification service measure , the need to consider this area holistically to ensure alignment with exist legislation , and upcoming ehrc guidance and the breadth of work already be carry out , I hope the new clause and amendment will be withdraw . there be one other amendment refer to digital verification service : the Liberal Democrats ' new clause 7 . I completely share their concern about digital inclusion , which be also mention by the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) . we have publish our own digital inclusion action plan , but such obligation could be particularly challenging for business currently operate solely in the digital sphere — for example , online bank . take a blanket approach in the way propose would not be proportionate , so I urge that the amendment be withdraw . on scientific research , my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) table amendment 37 and 38 . amendment 37 add further condition to the definition of scientific research . I understand her concern and we want to prevent misuse . however , the Bill do not expand the meaning of scientific research and already contain safeguard , such as in clause 86 . moreover , the amendment replicate word from two external document — include the Frascati document — neither of which be intend to be legally bind or to define scientific research . I be very happy to continue have these conversation with my hon . friend , but I urge she not to press she the amendment . on access to NHS datum , which my hon . friend the Member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) raise , let I just answer his direct question about the sale of NHS datum . the Secretary of State for Health have say categorically that the NHS be not for sale and that patient ' datum be not for sale — end of story . I hope we can put that one to bed . on ethnicity datum , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) make valid point that we intend to pursue . public body usually collect ethnicity datum in line with the Office for National Statistics ' harmonised standard . the ONS be currently review that and I be sure she will want to feed into that process . I be afraid that I have not have time to refer again to AI and copyright , but this country be a — Debate interrupt ( Programme Order , 12 February ) the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the clause be read a second time . question agree to . new clause 16 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . the Deputy Speaker then put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 17 - report on the use of copyright work in the development of AI system " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , before the end of the period of 12 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass — ( a ) prepare and publish a report on the use of copyright work in the development of AI system , and ( b ) lie the report before Parliament . ( 2 ) the report must consider — ( a ) the four policy option describe in section b . 4 of the copyright and AI Consultation Paper , read with relevant part of section C of that Paper ( policy option about copyright law and the training of artificial intelligence model use copyright work ) , and ( b ) such alternative option as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 3 ) the report must consider , and make proposal in relation to , each of the following — ( a ) technical measure and standard ( for example , measure and standard concern with metadata ) that may be use to control — ( i ) the use of copyright work to develop AI system , and ( ii ) the accessing of copyright work for that purpose ( for example , by web crawler ) ; ( b ) the effect of copyright on access to , and use of , datum by developer of AI system ( for example , on text and datum mining ) , include the effect on developer who be individual , micro business , small business or medium - sized business ; ( c ) the disclosure of information by developer of AI system about — ( i ) their use of copyright work to develop AI system , and ( ii ) how they access copyright work for that purpose ( for example , by mean of web crawler ) ; ( d ) the granting of licence to developer of AI system to do act restrict by copyright , include the granting of licence by and to individual , micro business , small business and medium - sized business . ( 4 ) in prepare the report , the Secretary of State must consider the likely effect of proposal , in the United Kingdom , on — ( a ) copyright owner , and ( b ) person who develop or use AI system , include the likely effect on copyright owner , developer and user who be individual , micro business , small business or medium - sized business . ( 5 ) in prepare the report , the Secretary of State must have regard to , among other thing , the Consultation Paper response . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may comply with this section by prepare and publish two or more report which , take together , satisfy the requirement in this section . ( 7 ) in this section — " Consultation Paper response " mean response to the copyright and AI Consultation Paper receive by the Secretary of State on or before 25 February 2025 ; " copyright " mean the property right which subsist in accordance with Part 1 of the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 ; " copyright work " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 ; " web crawler " mean a computer program that obtain datum from website in accordance with instruction and that can autonomously determine which website to visit . ( 8 ) term use in this section and in section ( economic impact assessment ) have the same meaning in this section as they have in that section . " — ( Chris Bryant . ) bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 1 - age of consent for social medium datum processing " ( 1 ) the UK GDPR be as amend as follow . ( 2 ) in article 8 of the UK GDPR ( Conditions applicable to child ' s consent in relation to information society service ) after paragraph 1 insert — " ( 1A ) reference to 13 year old in paragraph 1 shall be read as 16 year old in the case of social networking service process personal datum for the purpose of deliver personalise content , include target advertising and algorithmically curate recommendation . ( 1b ) for the purpose of paragraph 1a " social networking service " mean any online service that — ( a ) allow user to create profile and interact publicly or privately with other user , and ( b ) facilitate the sharing of user - generate content , include text , image , or video , with a wide audience . ( 1c ) Paragraph 1b do not apply to — ( a ) educational platform and learn management system provide in recognise educational setting , where personal datum processing be solely for educational purpose . ( b ) health and well - be service , include NHS digital service , mental health support application , and crisis helpline , where personal datum processing be necessary for the provision of care and support . " " — ( Victoria Collins . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Colum Eastwood Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Ben Lake Chris Law Ben Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Tom Morrison Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Sarah Pochin Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Susan Murray Tessa Munt Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Gen Kitchen Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 76 , Noes 295 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 2 - compliance with UK copyright law by operator of web crawler and general - purpose AI model " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision ( include any such provision as might be make by Act of Parliament ) , require the operator of web crawler and general - purpose artificial intelligence ( AI ) model whose service have link with the United Kingdom within the meaning of section 4 ( 5 ) of the Online Safety Act 2023 to comply with United Kingdom copyright law , include the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 , regardless of the jurisdiction in which the copyright - relevant act relate to the pre - training , development and operation of those web crawler and general - purpose AI model take place . ( 2 ) provision make under subsection ( 1 ) must apply to the entire lifecycle of a general - purpose AI model , include but not limit to — ( a ) pre - training and training , ( b ) fine tuning , ( c ) grounding and retrieval - augment generation , and ( d ) the collection of datum for the say purpose . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a draft of the statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass and the regulation be subject to the affirmative procedure . " . — ( Victoria Collins . ) this new clause require web crawler and general - purpose AI model with UK link to comply with UK copyright law across all stage of AI development . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Colum Eastwood Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Ben Lake Chris Law Ben Maguire Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard John Martin McDonnell James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Tom Morrison Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Sarah Pochin Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Tessa Munt Susan Murray Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Yasmin Qureshi Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Mike Reader Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Anna McMorrin Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 88 , Noes 287 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 19 - Secretary of State ' s duty to review the age of consent for datum processing under the UK GDPR " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of Royal Assent of this Act , have conduct a review and publish a report into the operation of article 8 ( condition applicable to child ' s consent in relation to information society service ) of the UK GDPR in relation to the datum process by social medium platform of child under the age of 16 . ( 2 ) as part of this review , the Secretary of State must consider — ( a ) the desirability of increase the digital age of consent under the UK GDPR from 13 to 16 , take into account the available evidence in relation to the impact of social medium platform on the educational , social and emotional development of child ; and ( b ) the viability of increase the digital age of consent under Article 8 of the UK GDPR in relation to specific social medium platform which be show by the evidence to be unsuitable for use by child under the age of 16 . ( 3 ) within six month of the publication of the report under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must lay a plan before Parliament for raise the digital age of consent to 16 through amendment to article 8 GDPR , unless the review conclude that such change be unnecessary . " — ( Dr Spencer . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Harriett Baldwin Alison Bennett Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims Davies Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Ben Obese - Jecty Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Mike Reader Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Gen Kitchen Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 160 , Noes 294 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 21 - Directions to public authority on recording of sex datum " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passage of this Act , issue regulation relate to the code of practice set out in section 49 of this Act which require public authority to — ( a ) collect , process and retain sex datum only where it be lawful to do so in accordance with data protection legislation ; ( b ) request and record sex datum accurately , in every circumstance where sex datum be collect , in accordance with follow category term and definition — ( i ) ' sex ' mean male or female only base on ' sex at birth ' , ' natal sex ' or ' biological sex ' ( these term carry the same meaning and capable of be use interchangeably ) ; and , ( ii ) in addition , where it be lawful to do so in accordance with data protection legislation and the Gender Recognition Act 2004 , ' acquire Gender ' mean male or female only , as record on a gender recognition certificate issue in accordance with the Gender Recognition Act 2004 ; ( c ) have update relevant organisation guidance to stipulate that , where sex datum be collect , this must be do in accordance with the definition set out by subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) within three month of these regulation come into force ; ( d ) have conduct a review of the accuracy of datum hold in relation to the sex of datum subject to ensure that the data be accurate in record sex at birth and , where relevant and collect lawfully , acquire gender as record on a gender recognition certificate within 12 month of these regulation come into force ; ( e ) have take every reasonable step to ensure that any datum hold in relation to the sex and , where relevant and collect lawfully , acquire gender as record on a gender recognition certificate of a data subject that be find to be inaccurate be rectify or erase within 18 month of these regulation come into force ; and ( f ) have produce and submit to the Secretary of State a report set out the finding of its review in relation to the matter set out by subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) and , where relevant , a description of the step take to ensure that the datum hold by the relevant public authority be accurate within the definition set out subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) with 18 month of these regulation come into force . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may , on receipt of a report in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) ( f ) instruct a public authority to take any further remedial step within a specify timeframe reasonably necessary to ensure the accuracy of the sex and acquire gender datum hold by the relevant public authority . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within one month of the passage of this Act , establish and maintain a register of public authority approve to act as source of datum relate to the attribute of sex for person provide digital verification service . ( 4 ) the register in subsection ( 3 ) must be publish on the website of the Office for Digital Identities & Attributes or any successor body . ( 5 ) until such time as a public authority be add to the register under subsection ( 3 ) , person provide digital verification service may only obtain datum on the sex of an individual request the provision of digital verification service from the record of birth hold by the General Register Office in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) . ( 6 ) information supply by the General Register Office pursuant to subsection ( 5 ) must specify sex as record at birth , as well as any subsequent correction to the register in the field mark ' sex ' . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may , from time to time , add public authority to the register as under subsection ( 3 ) only upon be satisfied on the basis of a report issue under subsection ( 1 ) ( f ) , or satisfaction of such further step require by the Secretary of State under subsection ( 2 ) that the datum hold by the relevant public authority in relation to sex and , where relevant , acquire gender as record on a gender recognition certificate , as define in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , be accurate . " — ( Dr Spencer . ) this new clause require the Secretary of State to issue regulation relate to the code of practice in section 49 require public authority to record sex datum in line with these regulation when datum be collect . this clause be link to amendment 39 and 40 . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Harriett Baldwin Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Jeremy Wright Ben Obese - Jecty Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Mike Reader Joani Reid Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Claire Young Gen Kitchen Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 97 , Noes 363 . question accordingly negative . clause 4 - power to make provision in connection with business datum Amendments make : 11 , page 6 , line 25 , after " recipient " insert " in relation to business datum " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 12 . amendment 12 , page 6 , line 26 , after " authority " insert " to do something with the business datum " . clause 4 ( 4 ) ( a ) refer to a person appoint by a public authority . this amendment specify that the person must be appoint to do something with the business datum in respect of which the public authority be a third party recipient ( define in clause 4 ( 2 ) ) . amendment 13 , page 6 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( aa ) make provision require a person who be a third party recipient in relation to business datum ( whether by virtue of those regulation or other data regulation ) , and who be appoint by a public authority to do something with the business datum , to publish or provide business datum as describe in paragraph ( a ) ( i ) or ( ii ) , " . this amendment enable regulation under Part 1 to require people who be third party recipient of business datum , and who be appoint by a public authority , to publish business datum or to provide it to customer of the trader to whom the business data relate or to other person . amendment 14 , page 6 , line 31 , leave out from " or " to " , make " in line 32 and insert " the appoint person refer to in paragraph ( a ) or ( aa ) " . this amendment enable regulation under Part 1 to make , in relation to a person describe in paragraph ( aa ) of clause 4 ( 4 ) ( see Amendment 13 ) , any provision that they can make in relation to a data holder ( other than provision impose a levy ) . amendment 15 , page 6 , line 37 , after " authority " insert " or appoint person " . this amendment and Amendment 16 enable regulation under Part 1 to make , in relation to a person ( other than a customer ) who , in accordance with regulation make under clause 4 ( 4 ) , receive business datum from a person appoint by a public authority , any provision that they could make if the person receive the business datum from a data holder . amendment 16 , page 6 , line 39 , leave out " ( a ) ( ii ) " and insert " ( a ) tab = " yes " or ( aa ) , other than a customer describe in paragraph ( a ) ( i ) " . — ( Chris Bryant . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 15 . clause 8 - enforcement of regulation under this Part Amendments make : 17 , page 12 , line 5 , leave out " and section 9 and 10 " . this amendment and Amendment 18 adjust the way in which clause 9 and 10 be signpost in clause 8 ( 3 ) , to reflect the fact that clause 9 and 10 make provision about regulation under Part 1 , not just regulation under clause 8 ( 1 ) . amendment 18 , page 12 , line 6 , at end insert " ( and see section 9 and 10 ) " . — ( Chris Bryant . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 17 . clause 11 - fee Amendments make : 19 , page 16 , line 14 , leave out " for the purpose of meeting expense " and insert " in connection with activity " . this amendment and Amendments 20 and 21 remove the requirement for the amount of fee provide for by regulation under clause 11 to be link to the expense of perform duty impose , or exercise power confer , by or under Part 1 of the Bill . amendment 20 , page 16 , line 25 , leave out from begin to " perform " in line 26 and insert " those activity be " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 19 . amendment 21 , page 16 , line 35 , leave out " in respect of which the fee be charge " and insert " in connection with which the fee be charge ( and for the total amount of fee payable in connection with thing to exceed the total cost ) " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 19 . amendment 22 , page 17 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 9 ) the Secretary of State or the Treasury may by regulation make provision about whether a person list in subsection ( 2 ) , or a person act on their behalf , who could require payment in connection with an activity describe in subsection ( 3 ) otherwise than in reliance on regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may do so . ( 10 ) where duty or power be impose or conferred — ( a ) on a person in their capacity as a third party recipient by or under regulation make under this Part , other than regulation make in reliance on section 4 ( 4 ) ( a ) , ( aa ) or ( b ) , or ( b ) on a person in their capacity as a person describe in section 4 ( 4 ) ( c ) by or under regulation make under this Part , nothing in this section , or in regulation under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 9 ) , prevent the person , or a person act on their behalf , from require payment in connection with the performance or exercise of those duty or power , or restrict their ability to do so , where the person could do so otherwise than in reliance on regulation under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 11 ) example of require payment otherwise than in reliance on regulation under subsection ( 1 ) include do so in reliance on other legislation or a contract or other arrangement ( whenever enter into ) . " — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment enable regulation to make clear whether or not power to charge arise otherwise than under regulation make under Part 1 can be use in connection with activity carry on pursuant to such regulation . it also provide that , where third party recipient have exist power to charge , the regulation can not prevent or restrict the exercise of those power . clause 15 - the FCA and financial service interface : supplementary Amendments make : 23 , page 21 , line 26 , leave out third " to " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 24 . amendment 24 , page 21 , line 27 , after " subsection , " insert " or to a person act on behalf of such a body or person , " . this amendment and Amendment 23 insert a reference to a person act on behalf of an interface body or a person list in clause 15 ( 7 ) into clause 15 ( 6 ) . amendment 25 , page 21 , line 27 , leave out " for the purpose of meeting expense " and insert " in connection with activity " . this amendment and Amendments 26 and 27 remove the requirement for the amount of fee provide for by FCA interface rule ( define in clause 14 ( 2 ) ) to be link to the expense of perform duty , or exercise power , arise from regulation under Part 1 of the Bill or FCA interface rule . amendment 26 , page 21 , line 32 , leave out subsection ( 8 ) and insert — " ( 8 ) those activity be perform or exercise — ( a ) duty or power impose or confer on the interface body or person list in subsection ( 7 ) by FCA interface rule , and ( b ) other duty or power impose or confer on that body or person by or under regulation make under this Part . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 25 . this amendment also make minor change for consistency with clause 11 ( 3 ) and 14 ( 2 ) . Amendment 27 , page 21 , line 40 , leave out " in respect of which the fee be charge " and insert " in connection with which the fee be charge ( and for the total amount of fee payable in connection with thing to exceed the total cost ) " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 25 . amendment 28 , page 22 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( da ) may require or enable rule to make provision about what must or may be do with amount pay as fee ; " . this amendment confer express power to enable the FCA to make provision about the treatment of amount pay as fee to interface body and other , for consistency with the similar power in clause 11 ( 1 ) ( b ) . amendment 29 , page 22 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 9A ) regulation under section 14 may enable FCA interface rule to make provision about whether an interface body or a person list in subsection ( 7 ) , or a person act on behalf of such a body or person , who could require payment in connection with an activity describe in subsection ( 8 ) otherwise than in reliance on FCA interface rule may do so . ( 9B ) example of require payment otherwise than in reliance on FCA interface rule include do so in reliance on other legislation or a contract or other arrangement ( whenever enter into ) . " — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment enable FCA interface rule ( define in clause 14 ( 2 ) ) to make clear whether or not power to charge arise otherwise than under FCA interface rule can be use in connection with activity carry on pursuant to such rule or regulation under Part 1 . clause 21 - Regulations under this Part : supplementary Amendment make : 30 , page 26 , line 17 , after " section " insert " 11 ( 9 ) , " . — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment provide that the regulation - make power under clause 11 ( 9 ) ( insert by Amendment 22 ) be not restrict by clause 21 ( 3 ) . clause 23 - relate subordinate legislation Amendment make : 31 , page 27 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) for the purpose of determine whether subordinate legislation contain provision describe in clause 2 ( 1 ) to ( 4 ) or 4 ( 1 ) to ( 4 ) , reference in those section to something specify be to be read as include something specify by or under any subordinate legislation . " — ( Chris Bryant . ) clause 23 confer power to make provision in connection with subordinate legislation that be similar to regulation that can be make under Part 1 . this amendment provide that , when determine whether that power be available , clause 2 and 4 should be read as refer to thing specify in subordinate legislation , rather than in regulation under Part 1 . clause 25 - other define term Amendment make : 32 , page 29 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) in this part , reference to regulation make under subsection ( 3 ) of section 4 or any of section 5 to 21 ( and reference which include such regulation ) include regulation make under section 4 ( 4 ) ( b ) or ( c ) which make provision that could be make under the other subsection or section . " — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment provide that reference in Part 1 to regulation make under particular provision of Part 1 include regulation make under clause 4 ( 4 ) ( b ) and ( c ) ( which confer power to make provision that could be make in reliance on those other provision ) . clause 56 - National Underground Asset Register : England and Wales Amendment make : 1 , page 57 , leave out line 35 and 36 and insert " obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers in relation to any provision which would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if contain in an Act of the Senedd ( ignore any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown impose under Schedule 7b to the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) . " — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment provide that the Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers before make regulation under Part 3A of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ( insert by this clause ) in relation to any provision that would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if contain in an Act of the Senedd . clause 57 - Information in relation to apparatus : England and Wales Amendments make : 2 , page 60 , line 2 , leave out " consult the Welsh Ministers " and insert " obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers in relation to any provision that relate to apparatus in street in Wales " . this amendment provide that the Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers before make regulation under section 79 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 in relation to any provision that relate to apparatus in street in Wales . amendment 3 , page 60 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) before make regulation under this section the Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers in relation to any provision that relate to apparatus in street in Wales . " this amendment provide that the Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers before make regulation under section 80 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 in relation to any provision that relate to apparatus in street in Wales . amendment 4 , page 60 , leave out line 28 . this amendment be consequential on amendment 3 . amendment 5 , page 61 , line 17 , leave out subsection ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) . — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment remove provision apply the Street Works ( Records ) ( England ) Regulations 2002 to Wales and also remove provision revoke the Street Works ( Records ) ( Wales ) Regulations 2005 . clause 58 - National Underground Asset Register : Northern Ireland Amendment make : 6 , page 67 , leave out line 25 to 27 and insert — " ( A1 ) before make regulation under this order the Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Department for Infrastructure . " — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment provide that the Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland before make regulation under the Street Works ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1995 . clause 59 - information in relation to apparatus : Northern Ireland Amendments make : 7 , page 69 , leave out line 35 and 36 . this amendment be consequential on amendment 6 . amendment 8 , page 70 , leave out line 25 . — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 6 . clause 135 - creating , or request the creation of , purport intimate image of adult Amendments make : 33 , page 173 , line 22 , leave out " this section " and insert " Subsection ( 2 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 34 . Amendment 34 , page 173 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) subsection ( 4 ) apply where a person commit an offence under section 66f of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( request the creation of purport intimate image of adult ) . ( 4 ) a purport intimate image which be connect with the offence , and anything contain it , be to be regard for the purpose of section 153 ( and section 157 ( 3 ) ( b ) ) as use for the purpose of commit the offence ( include where it be commit by aid , abet , counsel or procure ) . ( 5 ) a purport intimate image be connect with an offence under section 66f of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 if — ( a ) it appear to be of a person who be the subject of the request to which the offence relate ( whether or not it be what be request ) , and ( b ) it be in the offender ' s possession , or under the offender ' s control , as a result of that request . " — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment provide that deprivation order can be make under the Sentencing Code in connection with an offence under new section 66f of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( request the creation of purport intimate image of adult ) . schedule 11 - further minor provision about datum protection Amendment make : 35 , page 225 , line 13 , at end insert — " 21a in section 170 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( unlawful obtaining etc of personal datum ) , after " prevent " insert " , investigate " . 21B ( 1 ) section 171 ( re - identification of de - identify personal datum ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) , after " prevent " insert " , investigate " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 6 ) ( a ) , after " prevent " insert " , investigate " . " — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment add reference to investigate crime to exist reference in the Data Protection Act 2018 to detect or prevent crime . ( there be similar amendment in paragraph 23 , 26 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , 27 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) and 29 of schedule 11 . ) Title Amendment make : 36 , line 18 , after " service ; " insert " to make provision about work protect by copyright and the development of artificial intelligence system ; " . — ( Chris Bryant . ) this amendment be consequential on NC16 and NC17 . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . the House have work incredibly hard to get the Bill to where it be today . it be a relief that after so many attempt to get this piece of legislation through , over such a long period of time and multiple government , we will finally get it across the line . I put on record my thank to the people who have get we to where we be , include the Members from across the House who have contribute in sincere and passionate way during today ' s debate on Report , and now on Third Reading . I also put on record my very sincere thank to my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , the Minister responsible . he have see the Bill through assiduously , persistently , and with passion at all time to make sure that it pass through Parliament and be out there , benefit the people of Britain . I thank he , and also official in my Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . there be certain official who have be work on this Bill since 2022 and who have put their life and soul into it , often seven time a week . their dedication to get this piece of legislation through should be recognise by member right across the House — it certainly be by I . I thank they very much . I hope the House have notice that the Government have table amendment to improve the Bill until the last moment . by make it an offence to request the creation of deepfake intimate image without consent and empower the court to deprive offender of image and device contain they , we will ensure consistency in our approach to protect woman and girl from that vile , demean form of abuse . to conclude in the short time I have available , the Bill will make life well for work people right across our country . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be afraid that in the time I have , I can not give way . I want to do the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Havant ( Alan Mak ) , the courtesy of allow he to have his say in the remain couple of minute . the Bill will give work people across our country a strong economy , well public service , and more time to do the thing they like with the people they love . I look forward to work with people , include hon . member from across the House , to resolve as quickly as possible any outstanding issue that may arise after the Bill pass . the version of the Bill that be before we today be its third substantive iteration . it follow two fail attempt by the previous Government , the first of which start back in July 2022 . it be time that we get this do ; for far too long , our citizen and business have pay the price of the failure to deliver datum reform , and we can not expect they to put up with it any long . today , we have an opportunity to finally get it right . the Bill that be before we today will remove the brake that be hold back our country . I thank the Secretary of State for allow time for an Opposition response . I begin by thank hon . and right hon . member across the House for their contribution to this Bill over many month , and I thank official in the Department across several government and official in Parliament . may I thank the entire team on our Benches , but in particular my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) for his extremely hard work and our senior researcher Sophie Thorley ? the Conservatives leave the Government with a data Bill that would have improve Britain ' s position as a lead tech - enable economy and society . however , in Labour ' s hand , the Government have deliver only confusion and failure . a wide range of amendment have be table to labour ' s Bill , highlight key issue that require both leadership and agility from the Government , but they have fail on each of those area . on AI and copyright , they let down our content creator . on sex and gender , they let down woman and girl . on social medium safety , they let down our child . the last Conservative Government turn Britain into a lead tech power , and our original Bill build on those achievement . labour ' s Bill today take the country backwards , and our country deserve so much well . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order . no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Criminal Law that the draft Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( Offensive Weapons ) ( amendment , Surrender and Compensation ) ( England and Wales ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 27 March , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . havere Borough and Essex Devolution Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I have proudly represent my home town of Romford in this House for some 24 year . an historic market town since 1247 , it have be part of the county of Essex , formerly the kingdom of Essex , since the 6th century . essex be my county . I be bear at Rush Green hospital , Romford , Essex . I have live all my life in Marshalls Park , Romford , Essex . I go to school at Rise Park and Marshalls Park in Romford , Essex . my house have a Romford , Essex RM1 postcode . my home telephone number have a Romford , Essex 01708 dialling code . the church of St Edward the Confessor in Romford Market , where I be christen and confirm , fall within the diocese of Chelmsford , Essex . Essex county cricket club be our local cricket team , and we support it strongly . Romford football club , who be the proud winner of the vase trophy at Wembley one year ago , be part of the Essex senior football league . last week , I host a St George ' s Day celebration at Romford golf club , which be part of the Essex Golf Union . our local bowling club for Romford , Gidea Park and Hornchurch all fall under the Essex County Bowling Association . the Bedfords Park visitor centre in the historic Essex village of Havering - atte - Bower be manage by Essex Wildlife Trust . our water supply come from Essex and Suffolk Water . the Essex chamber of commerce ably represent business interest throughout our fine county . on Essex Day , on 26 October every year , the mayor of Havering — my borough — raise the Essex flag from our town hall in Romford to demonstrate local pride and love for our historic county . Romford be geographically Essex . we be historically Essex . we be culturally Essex and our social , sporting and commercial connection have always look towards the county of Essex . my constituent and I be proud of our Essex identity , which transcend local government or administrative boundary that be forever change — as they be again today . indeed , the London Government Act 1963 create a new administrative region , to be know as Greater London . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) that be when our problem begin . rather than Romford borough council and Hornchurch urban district council be retain as part of the Essex county council administrative area , it be decide to incorporate Romford and Hornchurch into the new Greater London and create a " London borough of Havering " . ever since then , our Essex identity have tragically be diminish and even discard by some , as if century of history in belong to such a great English county could end simply because of local government reorganisation , which be lazy in its construction and take no account of our history . this have lead to 60 year of muddle , confusion and constant debate about whether Romford and Havering remain part of Essex or not . the truth be , however , that the new London borough form in 1965 be never remove from their historic county of Essex , Middlesex , Surrey , Kent and Hertfordshire . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech about a subject that be close to my constituent ' heart as well . do he agree that other Government institution should follow the lead of Mr Speaker in fly , for example , the Middlesex flag on Middlesex Day to celebrate the heritage of my constituent , and that the heritage of Essex should be celebrate in a similar way ? will he also join I in encourage the Prime Minister — or no . 10 Downing Street — to follow the example of his predecessor in fly both the Middlesex flag on Middlesex Day and the flag of the other historic county on their relevant day in the come month ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that point about the flying of historic county flag . Middlesex Heritage , an organisation establish by Russell Grant which have promote the importance of the heritage of the ancient county of Middlesex , actually purchase two Middlesex flag . they give they to the then Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , and one of they be proudly fly from No . 10 Downing Street , London be part of the county of Middlesex . that tradition continue under the next Prime Minister , Rishi Sunak . order . I think the hon . Gentleman mean the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton . indeed , Madam Deputy Speaker . let I say this to my hon . friend . I do hope that the current Prime Minister will uphold that proud tradition and , later this month , fly the Middlesex flag . I think it would please a lot of people in the historic county be he to do so . the historic county remain today , and be proudly celebrate by local people throughout those county and throughout England . Mr Speaker be demonstrate that by fly the historic county flag here in the House of Commons on all the historic county day . what happen six decade ago be only a change in local government structure , but sadly ceremonial arrangement be also change , which be completely unnecessary and have add to the confusion , remove Romford from our rightful place under the Lord Lieutenancy of Essex . it seem that change like this happen every few decade when new government take office , and we be see that again today . I say to the Minister , " let we do this properly and get thing right . " in Havering , we have much in common with Brentwood , our neighbouring town , but not really with Brentford in west London . epping be on our doorstep , but Ealing be a long way from our neck of the wood . we visit Southend but never go to Southall . what work for Hampstead be not always what be require in Havering , and it be unlikely that my constituent could tell you where Colliers Wood be , but Collier Row be a cherished part of Romford , Essex , and have many rural part that feel like one be deep in the english countryside . I be not suggest that the people of Havering do not value the important connection that we enjoy with the City of London and what be know as the east end of London , because we do . so many family , include mine , have move from the east side of London to Essex over the past century , and our link to London be vital to we for business , work , travel , tourism and , of course , family connection — not to mention go to the theatre in the west end . come from a borough that orbit the capital , I can tell the Minister that the people of Havering be not oppose to co - operate with borough , town and community to the east when it make sense to do so , but Greater London , as a region with an overarch Mayor , be too big and too remote to meet the need of a borough such as Havering , which consider itself to be part of Essex . it be also very costly for we to be part of Greater London , as we pay ten of million of pound per year to the Greater London Authority . that equate to a vast sum for the GLA precept per household — an exorbitant amount of money that my constituent simply can not afford . London - wide policy be impose on we , such as planning decision and , of course , the ultra low emission zone , but we do not get the service that we be mean to receive . they be completely inadequate , with police be the bad example . the hon . Member make a important point about ULEZ . in my constituency , there have be huge concern about the creep of ULEZ . though deny , I understand that there have be conversation between local council about Thurrock join London . do he agree that Thurrock , like his own constituency , be Essex through and through and should remain that way ? the hon . Gentleman be completely right . havering and Thurrock be neighbouring borough , and we be Essex through and through . he be very lucky , because his constituency do not have London - wide policy impose on it , so it avoid ULEZ and planning interference from the Mayor of London . it be free to make its own decision — in fact , as a unitary authority . I commend the hon . gentleman for what he say , and we be certainly on the same page on this issue . we barely see policeman in Romford . they be mostly second into inner London area , and this be compound by the tri - borough arrangement that merge Havering , Barking and Dagenham , and Redbridge . we now get even few police on the street of Havering . may I commend the hon . Gentleman ? in all the time I have know he , he have always be british to the core — there be absolutely no doubt about that . although I be a supporter of devolution — many matter be devolve in Northern Ireland — I understand the complexity . do the hon . Gentleman agree that devolution be only as useful as the people in place to carry out the job ? effective people be the key . do he far agree that devolution must have community support and that , regardless of whether it be in Essex or Strangford , the general public must always have the final say ? the hon . Gentleman be completely right : any type of devolution have to have the consent of the people . I have to say to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I do not believe that the current Greater London devolution arrangement really have the consent of people in Havering . I think that if there be to be a referendum tomorrow , they would overwhelmingly vote to leave Greater London and be a unitary authority , but maybe there be other option . that be why this debate about Havering borough and Essex devolution be so pertinent today , and I look forward to the Minister ' s response to my argument . to return to what I be say about the police , all but one of our police station have be close , and my constituent be deeply unhappy with the lack of police cover we receive , despite the huge amount we contribute financially to the Greater London Authority . this be no fault of the dedicated officer who form the day - to - day , rank - and - file backbone of our local police operation . the local force be dedicate and determined to respond to and prevent instance of criminality that blight the locality , but they be undermine by a lack of the resource that we in Havering pay for , but simply do not receive . indeed , if you speak to my constituent , they will tell you that they believe havering resident be in effect subsidise inner London area and , through the Greater London Authority , fund what I believe have become a London - wide bureaucracy in City Hall and associate London - wide quango . it be hard to see how the people of Havering benefit from that , and more often than not , it have no relevance to local people in my borough whatsoever . the reason for my Adjournment debate be to ask the Minister to please allow we to look at alternative . now be the time to consider Havering ' s future . with devolution for what be term Greater Essex now be implement , this must surely be the right moment to examine a change that would give the people of Romford , Hornchurch , Upminster and Rainham hope that we could be part of something that well suit our local need and go with the grain of our historical identity . if the Government truly believe in genuine devolution , I hope the Minister will agree that local people should determine what be good for they , and a borough such as Havering must surely have the freedom to consider all option for our future . I request that the Government open up a meaningful conversation with the people of Havering about devolution for Essex that could include Havering , so that we can look sensibly and in detail at idea for change . let I make one thing crystal clear . the freedom travel pass for pensioner be often cite as one of the benefit of be part of Greater London , as if the Mayor of London provide it to we for free , which be not the case . my borough pay million to buy in to this scheme . it have always do so and will always continue to do so . we pay million of pound for the privilege , but I will always defend and support the freedom pass as our old folk deserve the benefit it give they . I commend my hon . friend on an excellent speech . do he agree that borough such as mine — Bromley — face many of the frustration that his constituent in Havering face , and that we be also contribute huge amount of money to the Mayor of London ? absolutely . my hon . friend be completely right . the people of Romford feel the same as the people of Bromley , Ruislip and other part of outer Greater London who be disenchant with the current settlement . on the freedom pass , I have long argue that the scheme should be extend to all council area where Transport for London operate . indeed , the Elizabeth line run to Shenfield and the central line run to Epping . other TfL service operate in local authority area that go way beyond the supremely outdated boundary of Greater London , to the west side of London in particular , so any travel scheme like the freedom pass must surely be offer equally to all the local authority that TfL serve . the freedom pass for old people and other should not be use as a reason never to change the structure of local government in what I call the capital region of the UK , which now stretch far beyond the Greater London boundary of the 1960 . may I also make it clear that I do not agree with the creation of super - unitary authority ? I believe they will prove to be very remote from town , village and neighbourhood and from real people who want local democracy to be truly local , with councillor who genuinely know their ward and understand the area they represent . if the Government be , however , set on go down this path , as they be now do in Essex , I believe it be inevitable that borough in Greater London will go in the same direction at some stage , with amalgamation of council take place . already , there be much discussion about this prospect , with varying proposal be put forward and openly speak of by think - tank , among local government official and in London elite circle , of course . let I say here and now that if Havering be destine for eventual merger with east London borough in some new super - council configuration , that be not something my constituent or I would support . we in Havering be a town and country borough , with an Essex heritage and a special character that local people cherish and will fight to retain . so , base on the principle the Government be already pursue with the creation of expand unitary authority , I ask the Minister to please consider Havering for collaboration with , for example , our neighbour Essex local authority such as Brentwood or Epping Forest , both of which be also serve by Transport for London and have much in common with Romford and Havering . it have be evident for a long time that Havering be at a crossroad , and it be now become abundantly clear to anyone who dare to look that either we continue on a path of future London integration or we take a new path in line with our heritage , which fully realise our Essex root , culturally , economically , and politically . I , alongside the people of Havering , strongly argue that this second path be the one we should , and indeed must , walk . it could just be , much to the surprise of many of my constituent , that the new Labour Government ' s plan for devolution and local government reorganisation provide the opportunity we need to finally take control of our own affair and have our future restore to become part of Essex local government structure once again . it would be a great plus for the people of Romford if it be a Labour Government that actually deliver what they have be ask for for so long . this be what I have be fight for over the course of my entire political life — not as a personal preoccupation , but because it be what everyone in my constituency believe , from local family and business owner to pensioner and market trader , and indeed young people . they all tell I that be what they want : they want their identity restore to be part of Essex and have our local control away from central London and City Hall . it be high time that their voice be listen to and this opportunity be seize to shape Havering and Essex for the well . I believe that today we have a once - in - almost - a - century chance to look afresh at the old boundary of Greater London that be construct six decade ago . the entire region around our great United Kingdom capital of London have change dramatically since those day , and we should therefore seize this moment to be bold and look at option for change that local people would be happy to see , thus give my constituent in Romford , Hornchurch and across the Borough of Havering hope for a much well structure of local government , rightly determine and support by the people it be establish to serve . I be grateful to the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) for secure this important debate and raise the question of Havering borough ' s place in relation to devolution in Essex . I pay tribute to the hon . member for champion his area and for the very clear passion that he have for the place he represent . one thing that be special about Parliament be that connection and the pride with which member speak about the place they live in and represent , and I absolutely hear that in every canter through the historic county of Essex and just how rooted it be in that kind of county , ceremonial , historic identity . I accept that completely . although our reorganisation in Greater Manchester be a bit later , in 1974 , many of we still feel that we be Lancashire to our heart , even though we be part of the Greater Manchester combine authority , and I think it be possible to be proud of both . we be proud in the way that we look to Manchester and the success of that city region , but proud too of our historical root in Lancashire , so I think the two be possible . the hon . Gentleman might find it useful to know that one of the first thing that we do upon come into government be change the way the county flag be fly . for a very long time , the Department that I represent hold all the historic county flag for England in the Department , and whenever the historic county day come up through the course of the year that flag would be fly from Marsham Street , at what I would say be a very average office block . I do not think that that quite give status to the historic county , and it do not give the opportunity for member of Parliament and visitor to see the county flag . they have be transfer to Parliament , to the Speaker ' s Office . in addition to Counties Week , 21 to 27 July , when all the county flag of England be in Parliament Square , the county flag will be fly in New Palace Yard on the day of each county . I think that be the appropriate place and I hope member will search out their flag on that day . identity and belong be really important . as hon . member will be aware , the Government have make it a clear mission to extend devolution to all corner of England , while fix the foundation of local government . our work with council across Greater Essex demonstrate the strength of that ambition , as we endeavour to establish a new county combine authority for the area while deliver local government reorganisation . the Government recently conduct a public consultation on our proposal to establish a mayoral combine county authority across Essex county council , Thurrock council and Southend - on - Sea city council , as part of the devolution priority programme . response to the consultation be currently be assess and I will shortly make a decision on whether to proceed with the necessary legislation , subject to further consent from the council involve . the three exist council area firmly form the currently propose footprint for the future devolution of Greater Essex , as the consultation be conduct on that basis . the three council , along with the district and borough council across Essex , be also invite in February to submit proposal for a new unitary structure for the county . as request , they submit an interim plan in March and we provide feedback to support the development of final proposal , which be now due in September . it be for the local council to develop those proposal and for the Government to assess they on that basis . it be currently not envisage that the boundary of Greater London will be change , or that the propose Greater Essex mayoral combine county authority will be expand , although the latter would be possible at a later date should it be locally desire and should statutory test be meet . as for change the boundary of the council themselves across Greater Essex , that will be for the council to propose if they wish , as they develop and submit proposal to the Government for unitary local government in that area . we remain open to discussion with any council across England on its vision for its region , and we continue to encourage discussion across council and area as we deliver on our ambitious agenda for local government . I hope that this brief and by no means exhaustive summary of our plan for Greater Essex devolution and local government reorganisation have provide helpful context to the hon . member for Romford . I understand completely his point about Havering be anchor in Greater London , but I hope he take some reassurance that the guidance we send out throughout the process have anchor two thing that he touch on in his speech . first , the administrative boundary be draw be about efficiency and the importance of have a single tier of local government that people can hold to account and that be sustainable in the future . but it be in no way intend to cut across the identity that people feel and be proud of . no council should try to cut across the historic identity that local area feel . secondly , every council , regardless of size or where it be in England , should always root itself in local community and local neighbourhood . the day of council be disconnect and remove from local community be long go , and that empower local councillor to be the frontline community convenor that they stand for election to be . question put and agree to . House adjourn .