I associate myself with those comment , Mr Deputy Speaker , and echo the Minister ' s comment about the Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill . I be pleased to be here tonight to see the final passage of the Media Bill . it have be 20 year since the last broadcasting law be introduce , and in that time the medium landscape have change dramatically . this Bill ensure that our broadcasting sector can continue to thrive with regulation fit for the modern era . the measure in the Bill have be through several layer of scrutiny , from the White Paper to the pre - legislative inquiry conduct by the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I thank the Committee for its work , and I will take this opportunity to say some other thank yous . I thank the range of stakeholder , include those throughout our broadcasting sector , who engage so extensively with the content of the Bill . I thank the noble Lords , include of course our Labour Lords team , the civil servant and official , and the ministerial team . I also thank my office , particularly Anna Clingan . while Labour would have add some further measure to future - proof and strengthen the Bill , I be pleased to welcome its passage this evening . far to that , I be happy to support the amendment from the other place , which I believe will strengthen the position and purpose of our public service broadcaster . first , it be right that the fundamental reithian principle of public service broadcasting be reinstate , and it be important that educational programming for child and young people have an explicit basis in the Bill . labour have speak in detail at every stage of the Bill about the importance of child ' s access to public service content , include educational content . as we enter a general election , our medium — be they our public service broadcaster , our commercial radio and television station or our local media outlet , include my local paper , the Barnsley Chronicle — will play an incredibly important role in hold accountable all of we who stand for public office . our medium and broadcasting sector will , and always do , play a fundamental role in our society and democracy . I be pleased that this legislation , which will secure their future , will enter into statute . as we enter the election period , I send colleague from across the House my very good wish , include , of course , my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) . I especially mention those who be retire , include the Deputy Speakers : my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Dame Rosie Winterton ) , and the right hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dame Eleanor Laing ) .