Speaker ' s Statement before we proceed to business , I should like once again to thank the Speaker ' s Chaplain , the Venerable Patricia Hillas , who , as I tell the House in the summer , will be consecrate next month as Bishop of Sodor and Man . that mean that today be her final day say Prayers in this Chamber and this be her final week in the House Administration . during her tenure , Tricia have be involve with some of the most challenging time to face this House : the impact of covid on the parliamentary community ; the murder of our much - love colleague Sir David Amess ; the death of her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth and the Duke of Edinburgh ; and , of course , the coronation of his Majesty King Charles III . at every gathering , in all circumstance , Tricia have have a calming presence , show warmth and give wise counsel to mps and staff alike . I personally will miss Tricia , and all the support and help that she have give I in my position . I be sure that the whole House would like to take this opportunity once again to wish Tricia well . the Isle of Man ' s gain be our loss . I do mean this , Tricia : you will always be with we , and you will always be there for we . thank you . when member lose their seat and be troubled about it , as we be , you be there to give compassion and support . I know that you have meet new member as well . thank you for everything that you have do and for the compassion that you have give the House . you will be miss , but I hope that you enjoy the Isle of Man . Tricia ' s successor will be announce in due course . I also hope that the whole House will wish to join I in congratulate Terry Wiggins MBE , sous chef , who retire this week after an astonishing 50 year ' service to the House . Terry join the House Service in 1974 at the age of 16 , start in the Members ' Dining Room and work his way up through various chef role , culminate in run the Debate in Portcullis House . Terry be also pivotal in the establishment of the Commons and Lords rugby team — wrong code ! — which have raise significant sum for charity over the year . in 2005 , he be award an mbe for service to Parliament . Terry be a most talented , friendly and hard - work individual . I be sure that the whole House will join I in thank he for his long and loyal service , and in wish he and his wife Christine a long and happy retirement . but if we be struggle , we will call on you , Terry ! thank you for your service . I can now announce the result of the remain Select Committee Chair election . I congratulate Patricia Ferguson , who have be elect Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee . a breakdown of the result of all of yesterday ' s election will shortly be make available in the Vote Office . business before Questions Lords order , that the Lords Message [ 11 September ] relate to the Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] be now consider . that this House concur with the Lords in their resolution . — ( the Chairman of Ways and Means . ) Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — agricultural Sector : innovation what step he be take to promote innovation in the agricultural sector . first , I add my congratulation to the Speaker ' s Chaplain on her distinguished tenure , and to Terry Wiggins , who have be here much long than all of we . I thank the right hon . member for his question . the Government recognise the importance of innovation in support farmer to boost Britain ' s food security , drive productivity and improve nature ' s recovery . the UK have world - class science and innovation capability . the Government will promote the UK as a great place for technology innovator , which will drive investment , economic growth and create high - skilled job , support farmer to embrace the late technology and good practice . one of the challenge for risk - take farmer be the regulatory environment . will the Secretary of State update the House on how he will bring together Natural England , the Environment Agency and other agency to reflect and be much more responsive to the enterprise culture in farming ? I share the right hon . member ' s interest in the need for effective regulation . I will soon make an announcement about our intention to review regulation to ensure that it be fit for purpose across the Department and help to achieve the priority objective that we have set out as a new government and ministerial team . Environmental Land Management Schemes what step his Department be take to increase uptake of environmental land management scheme . I echo the good wish of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to your chaplain , Mr Speaker , and to Terry , who have nourish we in mind , body and spirit . I congratulate the hon . Lady on her election to the House . this Labour Government be fully commit to environmental land management scheme . we will optimise the scheme so that they produce the right outcome for all farmer , include small , grassland , upland and tenant farmer who have be too often ignore , while deliver food security and nature recovery in a just and equitable way . on a visit to a local farm this summer with the National Farmers Union , it be raise with I that some farmer be not sign up for one of the Government ' s sustainable farming initiative , because they fear be lock in when a well deal may be just around the corner . if we want farmer to farm more sustainably , we need to ensure that they be get the support they need to do so . with that in mind , will the Minister clarify whether farmer who sign up for an SFI will be able to transition to an alternative one , and if not , whether the rule will be review so that they can do so ? I believe a cow be very interested in the hon . Lady ' s coat on one of her recent visit — I hope both the cow and the coat have recover . we encourage all farmer to apply for the sustainable farm initiative , and we be actively look at how we can achieve stability go forward . I call the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . it be a great pleasure to see my hon . and right hon . friend in their place on the Front Bench . the environmental land management scheme approach be a really innovative idea from the previous Government , but its implementation have be a shamble and it be leave far too many farmer desperately worried about their future . can my hon . friend tell I any more about what the Government have inherit and the urgent step that they will take to support Britain ' s farmer to farm in a more natural way in the future ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his election to Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee — obviously the fine Committee in Parliament , of which I have very fond memory . he be right , and he will know that this Labour Government be address the £ 22 billion hole in the public finance . no decision on the farming budget have be take . spend on the Department ' s priority will be confirm as part of the spending review , but we will not be overturn the apple cart and we be fully commit to environmental land management scheme . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . arguably , and in the view of some of we , our be the fine Select Committee in the House . the problem with the uptake of ELMS have be at the heart of a significant departmental underspend . no fair - minded individual would blame the current Government for that , but if that money disappear back into the Treasury , never to be see again on farm , that blame will be attach to the current Government . in opposition , they say that any underspend should be roll over into future year . be that still their position in government , and how will they do it ? I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his election to the second good Committee in the House of Commons . we will have to sort that out outside . there be about a £ 350 million underspend in the farm budget under the previous Government , who fail on their manifesto pledge to spend £ 2 . 4 billion a year on farmer . we be look at everything as part of the spending review and decision will be announce in due course . in my constituency we be about to hold regular water quality summit , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , with the water company , Ofwat , the local council , the Environment Agency and , most importantly , resident , with the aim of end the scourge of sewage dumping . do my right hon . friend the Secretary of State agree with I that this be a good local model and a good blueprint to be use nationally , and would he like to join we at an upcoming meeting ? I can not speak for the Secretary of State , but I be sure that all Ministers will fight over any invitation to visit my hon . friend ' s gorgeous constituency . we be announce a review into water . I urge he to participate and feed into that review . the sort of innovative model that bring partner together be certainly one we will be look at . British Food Producers what step he be take to support british food producer . I congratulate the hon . Lady on her achievement in the election . the Labour Government will restore stability and confidence in the sector , introduce a new deal for farmer to boost rural economic growth and strengthen food security alongside nature ' s recovery . we will make the supply chain work more fairly , back british produce , and cut energy price through GB Energy . we be continue the roll - out of the sustainable farming initiative , and will optimise scheme and grant . in recent week , I have have the pleasure of meet farmer in Evenley at Stowe Heights farm and Barnowl farm , two of the amazing producer in South Northamptonshire . however , they and many other farmer be gravely concern by medium report that the farming budget will be cut by £ 100 million . can the Minister confirm that that be not the case , and that support for local producer be to be maintain ? those sound like wonderful farm to visit — I might even be tempt to pop in and see they myself . our farming Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , have do an incredible job , go up and down the country visit many farmer and talk to stakeholder . as I be sure the hon . Lady will understand , anything involve the Budget be part of the spending review process , and answer will be give in due course . I call the shadow Secretary of State . both in that answer and in the early answer from the environment Minister , the hon . member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) , the House have hear Government Front Benchers say that no decision have be take on the farming budget . however , medium report say that the Chancellor have decide to cut the farming budget by £ 100 million , as she prioritise her trade union paymaster over farmer . in these first defra question of the new Parliament will the Minister rule out cut to the farming budget ? farmer be watch these question , and need to be able to plan their business and have confidence that the budget will be maintain . I hate to be the bearer of bad news , but I think the right hon . Gentleman will find that it be the previous Government — in fact , the Department for which he be responsible — who underspent the farming budget , despite their promise to spend £ 2 . 4 billion a year . that underspend break a manifesto promise . he will also remember , because it be not all that long ago that he be on the Government Benches , that decision about the Budget be make as part of the spending review . Water Pollution : accountability what recent progress he have make on increase the accountability of water company for pollution discharge into waterway . I welcome my outstanding former employee to her place in the Chamber , and thank she for her question . after 14 year of conservative failure , the public be furious at the level of sewage be release into our river , lake and sea . last week , this Government introduce the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill to strengthen the power of the water industry regulator and turn around the performance of fail water company . the Bill will ban bonus for chief executive when environmental standard have not be meet , and will bring forward criminal charge for obstruction . our canal be the pride of the Black Country : they be very important to our community , our wildlife and our tourism . unfortunately , like the rest of the waterway , we have see serious pollution incident in the canal in recent year . what be the Government do to protect our canal and waterway and clean up the failure of the last Government ? I congratulate my hon . friend on be such a champion for waterway in and around her constituency . toxic pollution of canal or , indeed , any other waterway be disgraceful and unacceptable . the previous Government cut resource for the regulator , leave they incapable of investigate all the incident that be happen . we be put firepower back with the regulator through the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which will allow they to claw back the cost of prosecution from the organisation that be prosecute , so that they can carry out more enforcement against organisation that get away scot - free with pollute our waterway under the previous Government . dozen of home and business across Alverstoke village in my constituency be flood with polluted water from the Alver creek when Storm Pierrick cause a tidal surge in April this year . we now hear that , without urgent flood protection measure , that could be a one - in - 20 - year scenario . those measure will cost an extra £ 3 . 5 million , and we be wait desperately for news from the Secretary of State ' s Department about whether we have be award that flood and coastal erosion risk management grant so that the work can start . we be now head into winter , with high tide , and some of my constituent still have not be able to return to their home and business after the previous flooding event . what reassurance can the Secretary of State give I that that announcement be come soon , and will he please meet I urgently to discuss this scenario ? I congratulate the hon . member on win her seat in the general election and take her place . I will certainly make sure that the relevant Minister be able to meet she to discuss that issue in more detail . I be very pleased that the first meeting of our new flood resilience taskforce will be later today . the intention of that organisation be to ensure much well co - ordination between Whitehall at the centre , where the resource be hold , and the agency on the frontline that need to be take appropriate action as quickly as possible to protect community , business , farm and all of the rest of the people who can be affect by flooding , particularly give that we be see more frequent severe weather incident because of climate change . I call the shadow Minister . sound management of water company be of course vital if customer be to receive the high level of service they expect and environmental performance obligation be to be strictly adhere to . some water company be well manage than other , so will the Secretary of State guarantee that in his effort to hold water company to account , no offer of a regulatory easement will be provide — in other word , no permission to lower standard , relax environmental permit or reduce agree level of investment will be provide to any water company , no matter their financial circumstance , by the Government or the regulator ? I will be announce later this autumn — in just a few week ' time — a review of the entire water sector , include regulation . in particular , I want to make sure that regulation be as tough as possible to ensure that the practice and , frankly , the abuse that be go on can no long happen . part of that will be complete transparency about what be go on — on the part of the water company , and also , I have to say , on the part of Government . it be very disappointing that , when he be a Minister , the hon . Gentleman try to cover up the extent of sewage spill before the election , tell Environment Agency official not to put the key figure on the front page of its environmental portal . order . say that the hon . member " try to cover up " be suggest that a Member be lie , and I do not — on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the right hon . Member can not raise a point of order now . he have be here long enough to know that they come at the end of question . [ interruption . ] order . I be deal with this . we really have to reflect on what we say about other member in this House , and I would like the Secretary of State to withdraw what he have suggest . I withdraw that comment . perhaps I should have say that the shadow Minister could have be more open and transparent . [ interruption . ] order . I be not go to open up that question . we will now have the second question from Robbie Moore . thank you , Mr Speaker . so there we have it : the Secretary of State ' s first outing at the Dispatch Box , and he be not able to clearly answer the question I ask . will the Secretary of State confirm that , in fulfil his obligation to hold water company to account , he will not issue regulatory easement , no matter their financial circumstance ? will he answer that question clearly right now from the Dispatch Box ? as I have already say , we be look to strengthen , not weaken the regulation . the regulation be inappropriate . it be not just the regulation itself , but the lack of resource the regulator have have . that be why the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill we be introduce will allow the regulator to claw back resource from water company that be successfully prosecute , so that they have the firepower to prosecute further wrongdoing by those water company or other responsible for it . funding for Farming if he will maintain the level of funding for farming . what discussion he have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on fund for farming . if he will maintain the level of funding for farming . the Government will restore stability and confidence in the sector by introduce a new deal for farmer to boost rural economic growth and strengthen food security alongside nature ' s recovery . the Government be currently conduct a spending review , which will conclude in October . departmental budget , include spending on farming , will be confirm through this process . the Labour party manifesto rightly state that the Labour party " recognise that food security be national security . " I agree , but those word must be match with action . we have already ask today about future budget , but have not hear any answer . will the Secretary of State confirm that there will be no real - term cut to the agriculture budget ? as the hon . Member will know , there be a spending review process go on , which will culminate with announcement in the Budget . that be the point at which all of that will be make clear and apparent . I would gently remind the hon . member that it be her government who underspent the farming budget by £ 130 million in the previous financial year . that money should have be in the pocket of farmer , who desperately need it for the work they be do to provide the food we want to eat and to help nature ' s recovery , yet that Government be too incompetent to get it out the door . this government will make sure that the money allocate to farmer be hand over to farmer so that they be able to use it for the purpose for which it be intend . be an MP for the Scottish Borders , I be lucky enough to represent some of the good farmer and food producer in the whole of the UK . however , as we have hear , the new Government have choose not to give they any clarity about their future funding settlement , so I ask again : can the Secretary of State commit not to cut the funding for farmer and food production ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his appointment as shadow Secretary of State for Scotland . as I say previously , a spending review process be go on . no Government announce their Budget in advance of the Budget take place . I can not do that either , but I assure the hon . Gentleman that we be keen to ensure that farmer in every single part of the United Kingdom receive the support they need to do the job that we as a country need they to do to ensure that we have the food security that we want , because it be part of our national security , and that this country deserve . farmer in my constituency who receive funding through the sustainable farming incentive be concerned that some of the scheme be become over - subscribed and therefore their income be reduce . will the Secretary of State give a reassurance that that particular initiative will continue and will do so at the exist funding level ? I have be clear , throughout the election campaign and since , that we do not intend to overturn the applecart in respect of the old scheme in general , include the SFI . we support the principle behind the scheme and want to see they continue . in term of what the hon . Gentleman allude to , there be way to make they work well . my intention be to work closely with the farming sector and the nature sector to make sure that we get the maximum bang for our buck for every single penny that go through those scheme , and that the farmer who need it get the support they deserve . british farmer have be badly let down by crippling trade deal , skyrocket energy price and devastating flood . will the Secretary of State outline how he will restore confidence and support british farmer ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be all sort of way in which farmer have feel very let down over the past 14 year , and that have contribute to the tragic situation today in which we have the low level of confidence ever record in the farming sector . our new deal for farming be intend to start to sort part of that out . my hon . Friend refer to trade deal that undermine farmer ; they be furious about that , and at the National Farmers Union ' s Back British Farming Day reception yesterday farmer make that clear to I again . we have rule out any future trade deal that undercut and undermine british farmer in the way the previous Government ' s Australia and New Zealand trade deal do . may I support your thank to Terry Wiggins , Mr Speaker ? he have be a great servant of this House and be a lovely bloke . the conservative complaint about support for farmer be a bit lame . have the Secretary of State have the opportunity yet to work out why there be an underspend of over £ 100 million in the agricultural budget last year ? my hon . friend raise an important point . opposition member be ask I today about budget decision that they know can not be announce before the Budget , when presumably they be aware — because the statement have be lay — that they underspent the previous budget to the tune of £ 130 million . it be not that they be not warn about this either , because while we be in opposition we be make point , as be farmer , about underspend and the desperate need to get that money back out to the farmer who need access to it . we will review the situation , find out exactly what go wrong and publish that information as soon as it be available . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . somerset be home to 8 , 500 farmer and food producer , which be more than any other county in the UK . they be worried that the £ 130 million of support will be strip from they because the previous Government replace the basic payment scheme with system that be too complicated for many farmer to access . notwithstanding the previous comment , will the Secretary of State confirm that he will not be slash their funding , and give farmer the confidence that they need to be able to invest in the future and secure the nation ' s food security ? I be delighted to congratulate those farmer , producer and grower in Somerset . it be a fine county and they do an incredibly good job , of which the hon . Lady be rightly proud . I hope she will understand that I can not make comment about the Budget in advance ; I would be in deep trouble with the Chancellor of the Exchequer , which be something I wish to avoid . at the appropriate time , we will make absolutely clear what we intend to do . my intention be to fight the corner of farmer through the spending review process so that we can make sure they receive the resource they deserve . support for Farmers what step he be take to support farmer . this Labour Government will introduce a new deal for farmer to boost rural economic growth and strengthen food security alongside nature recovery . we will make the supply chain work more fairly , well protect farmer from flood and back british produce . we be continue the roll - out of the sustainable farming initiative and will optimise scheme and grant to ensure that they work for farmer . it be the time of year when we thank farmer and nature for the harvest , and it have be a particularly difficult year . farmer be plan ahead for next year , so will the Minister kindly give I a one - word answer to my question ? I understand that she can not announce what be in the spending review , but in the request that her Department have make to the Chancellor , be the amount she have ask for more or less than £ 2 . 4 billion ? I thank the hon . Lady — dare I say , my hon . friend — for her question . yes , it be good to remind ourselves that this be the time of harvest , when we should all be grateful and give thank . in answer to her question , as a previous Chair of the Treasury Committee she know that we can not make comment on the Budget before it come through . like the Secretary of State , I do not wish to be in trouble with the Chancellor either . right , we come to Mike Amesbury — let we see if he get in trouble . thank you , Mr Speaker . last week , I meet farmer in the Frodsham part of my constituency who be ask for support to curtail the industrial theft of gps system . will the Minister meet I to discuss that , with representative of the National Farmers Union ? it be always a pleasure to meet my hon . friend , and I would be delighted to talk to he about that in more detail . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . Scotland ' s financial allocation will be confirm through the spending review that conclude in October . as agriculture be devolve , it will be for the Scottish Government to allocate funding to farmer in Scotland . the UK Government be support farmer across the country with a new deal to boost economic growth and strengthen food security . we will protect farmer from be undercut in trade deal , make the supply chain work more fairly and back british produce . farming and agriculture be a vital part of the economy in west Fife and in my constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar . yesterday , I be delighted to meet a delegation from NFU Scotland . give the economic , social and environmental value of active farming and crofte in Scotland , and its significant contribution to the wide UK economy , will the Secretary of State share what he will do to ensure that food security and food production in Scotland remain at the heart of our national security ? many of those issue be devolve to the Scottish Government . I have already hold meeting with the Scottish Agriculture Minister and we be due to meet again next week , and I will be make sure that we have a strong work relationship . where the UK Government have a role in particular be with trade deal . many british producer be upset that because the previous Government erect barrier to trade when they be tell that they would continue to get open access to the european market , they could no long continue to sell their great british produce into those market , damage they economically and financially . we will be seek a new veterinary deal with the European Union to get those export move again . I remind those on the Front Bench that it be topical question , so question and answer have to be short and punchy . the thing be , I have to try to get in as many as I can . let we see a good example of that with the shadow Secretary of State . the Secretary of State have repeatedly talk tough with the water company , yet the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill that he announce actually weaken a number of measure , such as the automatic fine for category 1 and 2 prosecution , and remove the unlimited penalty that would apply . he say that the review of water regulation would strengthen requirement on water firm ; will he therefore confirm to the House that there will be no regulatory easement as part of that review ? the very Bill that the right hon . Gentleman refer to strengthen regulation . we will be look far at regulation through the review . the intention will be to make it strong , not weak , because it be far too weak under the previous Government and we need to turn that around . raw sewage be discharge into our river and sea for a shocking 4 million hour last year . will the Minister reassure our coastal community , include my own in Worthing West , that water company will be hold accountable for the necessary investment to address the systemic and chronic pollution of our water ? congratulation to my hon . friend on her election . she be absolutely right to be outrage at the level of sewage pump into our river , lake and sea under the previous Government . I hope that where she see inaction in the past , she will see this Government take action right now through our Water ( Special Measures ) Bill . we will not stand by and allow these level of pollution to continue . water bill in the west midland be set to increase by some 37 % by the end of the decade . many of my constituent be already struggle with the cost of living . what step will the Secretary of State take to stop private water company rip off consumer in the west midland and to keep bill at an affordable level ? of course , we recognise the impact of the cost of live on all our constituent , but the year of under - investment by the Conservatives mean that we need £ 88 billion - worth of investment in the industry . customer bill will be ringfence under the change bring about by the Government , and if that money be not spend on infrastructure improvement , it will be refund to customer . of course , the final bill be determine by Ofwat , not the Government . my constituent in Hastings and Rye get their water bill this month . many of they be shock to see their bill go up despite the failure of Southern Water , which include sewage dump along our coastline , flood in our town centre and leave we without water . it have even charge we for the five day when the tap run dry . what be the Government do to clean up the mess leave by Southern Water and by the conservative party ? what have be go on in my hon . friend ' s constituency be completely unacceptable . I know that she have be a huge champion for clean up the water in that part of the country . one of the thing we be look at do be double the rate of compensation from water company when they let down their customer as she describe . Animal and Plant Health Agency staff deserve our thank for tackle a number of challenge face our biosecurity . give the outbreak of bluetongue in East Anglia , the advance of african swine fever across Europe , and the exist threat pose by avian influenza and bovine tuberculosis , will the Minister support the apha by affirm that the Government will fully commit to the redevelopment of its HQ in Weybridge — Labour rightly call for that in opposition — to protect the UK ' s biosecurity , and human and animal health ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his new seat and congratulate he on win the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ' Massingham advocacy award . the Department remain vigilant to potential global disease threat and have robust measure in place to prevent and detect disease incursion . we will be look at funding as part of the spending review , but I pay tribute to those official and veterinary officer who be work so hard to tackle the outbreak that the hon . Gentleman mention . Margate , Broadstairs and Ramsgate be byword for the english seaside holiday , but Thanet district council have to deal with the appalling level of litter and fly - tipping that come with the popularity of our beautiful beach . at the end of a hot , sunny day , 5 , 000 people will have descend on Margate main sand , leave they far from beautiful . the rubbish be an environmental and health hazard . of course , the challenge be a seasonal one . what plan do the Government have to support coastal community in tackle this blight ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . we need to educate the public and ourselves that there be no such place as " away " and that when we bring our child and our picnic to the beach , we should consume the food and leave only footprint in the sand . I be convene a circular economy taskforce , and we will look at seasonal need as part of that . any cut to the environmental land management scheme would be a blow to farmer and to the Government ' s climate and nature recovery mission . the nature - friendly farming budget need to be not just maintain but increase . do the Secretary of State agree with the economic assessment make by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds , the National Trust and the Wildlife Trusts that the environmental land management budget will need to be increase to around £ 5 . 9 billion a year to meet the target ? the Government remain fully committed to the ELM scheme , and my right hon . friend the Chancellor will make announcement about the budget at the appropriate time . under the Conservative Government , there be almost 18 , 000 hour of sewage dumping in my constituency in 2023 . what be the Minister do to ensure that Yorkshire Water clean up its act and our beautiful River Don ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and welcome she to her place . she be already a tireless champion for her constituency , and she have raise this issue with I in the past . our new Water ( Special Measures ) Bill will clean up our river , lake and sea , undo the damage leave behind after 14 year of conservative rule . the Secretary of State be certainly talk tough , but will he publish the justice impact test for his Water ( Special Measures ) Bill and list the additional court case and prison place need ? we will publish all information relate to the Bill at the appropriate time during its passage through Parliament . what action will the Secretary of State and his Department take to support farmer in address rural crime , which be a huge issue for farmer in my constituency and across Essex ? I be pleased to say that I make a joint announcement with the Home Secretary that this will be the first Government to have a cross - departmental rural crime strategy intend to cut the huge impact of rural crime on community . biodiversity net gain be critical to replace the loss we be experience in our environment and be now mandatory in planning application — but with exemption . those exemption mean that most developer be avoid biodiversity net gain , so what will the Government do to tighten up the exemption and make that more difficult ? this be a very new policy and have only just come into force , as the hon . Lady will be aware . there be very limited exemption in place at the moment , such as that on side return on housing , but we be keep the issue under active review and I be in discussion with official about it . the bluetongue outbreak in Haddiscoe be seriously concern , and it be crucial that the Animal and Plant Health Agency be provide with sufficient resource to conduct testing swiftly . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss this urgent matter ? I be happy to ensure that the relevant Minister meet my hon . friend to discuss the issue . however , the APHA and other authority be do a good job right now of contain a very worrying incident of bluetongue . in Bexhill and Battle we get to enjoy the amazing High Weald area of outstanding natural beauty , but it be expansive , cover more than 1 , 400 sq km . what advice do the Minister ' s Department give the Housing Department on take such issue into account when centrally impose housing target be put pressure on the area as a whole ? it be important to remember that our national landscape be protect landscape and that the planning authority work appropriately on such issue . I be in discussion with official and I be happy to write to the hon . gentleman with a proper answer on the issue . in my constituency we also have confirm case of bluetongue , and I recently meet a farmer who lose six pregnant ewe last week . will the Minister meet I to discuss the issue and how we can support farmer in my constituency and across the east of England ? I will happily ensure that my hon . friend get a meeting , perhaps with our hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) , to discuss the issue in her region . before the school summer holiday , 26 year 3 student at Holy Trinity primary school in Cookham write to I about sewage in the Thames . they be really concerned that water company be allow to get away with put sewage in our water . will the Minister meet I and student at Holy Trinity to discuss their concern ? as a former primary school teacher , how can I not say yes to a meeting with the student from my hon . friend ' s constituency ? I be already look forward to it . I be very concerned about the future of the Thetford biomass facility in my constituency . every year , it turn half a million tonne of poultry litter into electricity . have the Secretary of State have meeting to discuss the potential impact of the end of the renewable obligation scheme on the disposal of poultry litter ? we be in the early stage of look at how we deal with the country ' s waste and consider the policy we will bring forward . this will be look at as part of the review . we will be work with colleague from the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero to ensure we get the right result . will the Secretary of State meet I and the Environment Agency to discuss the closure of Marsh Lock bridge on the Thames path in Henley - on - Thames ? I would be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman and the Environment Agency to discuss the matter in more detail . Solicitor General the Solicitor General be ask — Unduly Lenient Sentence Scheme if she will make an assessment of the potential merit of extend the unduly lenient sentence scheme to include unduly severe sentence . it be a privilege to be appoint as his Majesty ' s Solicitor General . my fellow Law officer and I will be work to restore public faith in government and the rule of law , and to support the Home Secretary and the Lord Chancellor in deliver our safe street mission . sentencing policy be quintessentially a matter for the Ministry of Justice ; sentencing be a matter for our judge . offender already have the right to appeal to the Court of Appeal against their sentence , include when they consider they to be unduly excessive . since 4 July , more than 40 people have be jail in the UK for peaceful act of conscience : some for protest climate breakdown , some for take measure to stop violation of international humanitarian law in Gaza . the UN special rapporteur , Michel Forst , have make public statement to the effect that these sentence violate international law and be not acceptable in a democracy . with our prison in crisis and radical measure necessary , as we have see with the release of prisoner this week , will the Attorney General issue guidance to judge to ensure that sentencing for peaceful protest be realign with common sense , democratic principle and international law ? decision to prosecute , convict and sentence be rightly make independently of Government by the Crown Prosecution Service , jury and judge respectively . as I have already say , if someone want to appeal an unduly excessive sentence , they can do so and our court be there to handle that matter . I welcome the new Chair of the Justice Committee . thank you , Mr Speaker . the Government have pledge to undertake a review of sentencing generally . I wonder whether I can tempt the Solicitor General to support a wide review of aspect of the criminal justice system that do not seem to be work , in particular the role of the Criminal Cases Review Commission and the CPS in deal with potential miscarriage of justice . this week , Oliver Campbell ' s conviction for murder be quash by the Court of Appeal as unsafe . the Criminal Cases Review Commission be ask to look at the case in 2005 . the CPS resist the appeal and ask for a retrial after 33 year . first , I welcome my hon . friend and congratulate he on his election as Chair of the Justice Committee . he be right that we will be undertake a review of sentencing . on miscarriage of justice , we will want to work with he to look into that far . I be happy to meet he to discuss such matter . I call the shadow Attorney General . may I first warmly welcome the Solicitor General to her place , and the Attorney General to his place in the other place , in what the Solicitor General will already know be one of the most interesting and challenging part of government ? while I be at it , I should of course also welcome the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) as the new Chair of the Justice Committee . may I also take the opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , the shadow Solicitor General , on the responsibility he will shortly take up on behalf of the whole House , which he will do brilliantly after an all - too - short career on the Opposition Front Bench ? I do not know for how long the Solicitor General and I will have these exchange over the Dispatch Boxes , but I be glad to be able to start on a note of consensus . I agree with she that it would not be appropriate to extend the unduly lenient sentence scheme to cover unduly severe sentence , for which , as she say , appeal be already available , but she will agree that the scheme be always capable of improvement . it be currently wholly reactive , respond to request from other for sentence to be review . may I ask the Solicitor General to consider the merit of her Department , and indeed the Ministry of Justice — I see that the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , the hon . member for Swindon South ( Heidi Alexander ) , be sit beside she — monitor sentence more proactively , in particular for newly create offence , so that we can all have confidence that , particularly in relation to those offence , sentence be be pass within anticipated range ? I thank the right hon . and learn Member for his question , and also for his warm welcome . he be enormously experience in these matter , as both a former Attorney General and a former Justice Minister . as he rightly note , newly create offence , such as those create by the Online Safety Act 2023 , do not currently fall within the scope of the unduly lenient sentencing scheme , and I understand that there be no immediate plan to extend the scheme far , but — again , as he rightly note — we always look for opportunity to reform , and , along with my Department , I will keep that under review . violence against Women and girl what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case relate to violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case relate to violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case relate to violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case relate to violence against woman and girl . for too long , woman and girl across the country have face routine threat of appal violence and abuse . this Government be elect with a clear mandate to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade ; that be what we will deliver , and it be something to which I be personally committed . in the early stage of that process , I have recently meet both the Domestic Abuse Commissioner and the Victims ' commissioner to discuss how the Crown Prosecution Service can work closely with the police from the early point to build robust , victim - centre investigation that will drive improvement in conviction rate . I , too , welcome the Solicitor General to her position . she will be aware of the appalling increase in crime against woman and girl throughout the United Kingdom , include my constituency and Greater Manchester more widely . More than a million such crime be record last year , constitute both 20 % of all crime log and an increase in the number of violent crime against woman and girl . give the seriousness of the situation , what plan do the Government have to ensure that we prosecute effectively and quickly ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her election as chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . the statistic that she have give be indeed worry , and the mission of halve violence against woman and girl be therefore central to the Government ' s agenda . behind each of those statistic lie heartbreake personal story . we need to do much well , which be why the Lord Chancellor have commit herself to introduce specialist rape court to fast - track rape case and why the Home Office be deliver plan to introduce specialist rape and sexual offence team in every police force . it be measure of that kind that will address the problem highlight by my hon . friend . the 2023 police efficiency , effectiveness and legitimacy report on Thames Valley police establish that the force do not make full use of Clare ' s law . do the Solicitor General agree that Clare ' s law be a powerful tool to protect woman from those who have already be prosecute for domestic violence ? I thank my hon . friend for raise an important issue . he be right : Clare ' s law be a powerful tool , and it need to be apply more evenly and consistently . the domestic violence disclosure scheme , know as Clare ' s law , enable the police to disclose information to a victim , or potential victim , of domestic abuse about previous abusive or violent offending by a partner or ex - partner . the police need to consider each request on its own merit . however , more need to be do to ensure that the scheme be use consistently by police force across the country , and I understand that the Home Office be currently engage with the police to see how its application can be improve . may I warmly welcome the Solicitor General to her place ? I be sure she agree that the dreadful legacy of the last government ' s record on rape conviction can not be allow to continue . she know that behind the statistic — less than 2 % of rape be prosecute — lie real people such as a woman in my constituency of Monmouthshire , who have be wait on a CPS decision for two year and three month . her life have be on hold and in limbo as she wait to hear whether the perpetrator will be charge . she have summon up the courage to report , and we can not leave she or anyone else in indefinite limbo . can the Solicitor General share what progress have be make on the introduction of the Government ' s new rape court ? what impact do she expect they to have on the time lag between reporting and charging , and on prosecution rate for those charge with violence against woman ? I absolutely share my hon . friend ' s concern . as her constituent ' s heartbreake experience illustrate , such delay be traumatic for victim . they too often lead to what be know as victim attrition , which lead to trial collapse and deter other from report these sort of offence . this have go on for far too long , and we need to get a grip on the situation . that be why the Lord Chancellor have commit to introduce specialist rape court and work with the judiciary to drive down wait time . obviously , those need to be carefully consider while navigate other pressure on the justice system , and I hope to be able to update the House on the Government ' s plan in due course . between 2022 and 2023 , my constituency of Knowsley have the high number of death per capita due to domestic abuse , but very few people be charge for domestic abuse , let alone prosecute . will the Law officer meet I to discuss how we can join up the criminal justice system so that the police and prosecutor work together to take dangerous abuser off our street ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the incredibly distressing figure . as I say before , the human story that lie behind they will each tell a tragic tale , which be why tackle this issue be at the heart of this Government ' s agenda . I be happy to meet my hon . friend and her local chief Crown prosecutor , Jonathan Storer , to discuss this serious issue and look at how we can improve joint working between the CPS and the police . may I congratulate the Solicitor General on her appointment ? among the most serious offence involve woman and girl be rape and serious sexual offence . once victim come forward , there be often delay in their case be hear , and a frequent driver of that be the difficulty in get sufficiently experienced counsel . a major driver of that be the gap between the fee for prosecute and defend counsel . do the Solicitor General agree that there be an urgent need to plug that gap ? we know that the availability of sufficiently experienced prosecutor be a problem that need to be look at . that be why , in appropriate case , we be look at use associate prosecutor to clear the backlog in our court more generally , but for the most serious crime of rape and violence against woman and girl , we need specialist prosecutor . the Government will be look closely at both recruitment and retention . may I welcome the Solicitor General to her place ? I wish she well in the role and hope that it go accord to plan . can she far clarify that funding be available for each branch of the prosecution service to provide the protection and support that help victim to speak out ? be there any discussion about whether increase funding for victim support could embolden victim and help to facilitate even more safe prosecution ? it be vital that we place victim at the centre of our justice system , which be why this Government be look to strengthen the power of the Victims ' Commissioner . as we announce in the King ' s Speech , the victim , court and public protection Bill will strengthen those power to improve accountability and ensure that victim ' voice be centre and hear from start to finish throughout the criminal justice process . I call the shadow Solicitor General . may I , too , welcome the Solicitor General not just to the House , but to her place ? I thank the shadow Attorney General for his warm word and for the good nature of yesterday ' s election . only a few week ago , the National Police Chiefs ' Council and the College of Policing issue a joint national police statement on violence against woman and girl , which say : " we be transform the way police officer investigate rape and serious sexual offence and over the last year we have train over 4 , 500 new officer in investigate this complex crime . " the Solicitor General do not have direct responsibility for policing service , but she do say that she would be work with her Home Office and Ministry of Justice colleague , so can she confirm that those 4 , 500 newly train officer , who be train under the previous Conservative Government , will dedicate the majority of their policing activity to work on case exclusively involve violence against woman and girl ? I echo other hon . member in congratulate the hon . Gentleman . as we have say , the mission to halve violence against woman and girl within the next decade be a central priority for the Government . one aspect of that will be cross - departmental working between the Attorney General ' s office , the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice , as well as with other departmental colleague . it be an absolute priority and at the moment — in the early stage — we be look at exactly how we will do that . it be right that those priority be communicate to every branch of the criminal justice system , include policing , the Crown Prosecution Service and other agency involve . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . just one in 83 rape offence record by Avon and Somerset Police last year result in a charge or court summon . compare with other police force in the south - west , that represent a significant increase in 2023 - 24 for rape and sexual offence crime . do the Solicitor General agree that more need to be do to strengthen the justice system as a whole to properly deal with sexual violence and domestic abuse , not just in Avon and Somerset but across England and Wales ? I entirely agree with the hon . member that this need to be an absolute priority and that we need to drive improvement in conviction rate . that be why there be a commitment to introduce specialist rape court , work to fast - track rape case and drive down wait time , and why it be important , at the start of the system , to put domestic abuse expert in 999 control room . it be that whole suite of measure that will lead to the improvement that we all want to see . shoplifting : prosecution what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for shoplifting . our safe street mission will drive essential change to bring an end to the epidemic of shoplifting that be plague our high street . between 2018 and 2023 , under the last government , the charge rate for shoplifting offence go down significantly , by 5 % , so we be see 10 , 000 few charge a year . rather than criminalise vulnerable people , this Government believe that criminal gang have be embolden by poor enforcement and immunity for low - level shoplifting . we be not prepared to stand by and allow that to continue , which be why the time be right to take action against that unacceptable behaviour . I congratulate the Solicitor General on their appointment . the British Retail Consortium identify a £ 1 . 7 billion cost to trader from the offence . have speak to trader in Torquay and Paignton , I know that it have a massive impact on the viability of they trade on our high street . how will the Solicitor General ensure that we expedite shoplifting prosecution ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this matter . member will be all too aware of the impact that such offence have on our constituent , whether they be customer or business owner . the police be work closely with CPS colleague to prosecute shoplifting , but we know there be more to do . among additional measure , the Government will introduce a new offence of assault retail worker , in order to protect the hard - work and dedicated staff who work in those store . there be other thing that we can do , but that be a start . rioter : prosecution what step she be take to help ensure rioter be prosecute efficiently and effectively . what step she be take to help ensure rioter be prosecute efficiently and effectively . there seem to have be a lot of congratulation this morning , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) on be elect as Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary have be clear that there be no place for senseless violence on our street . during the summer , after the recent disorder , the Crown Prosecution Service deploy an additional 100 prosecutor , expand its 24 - hour charging service and receive additional advice from the Director of Public Prosecutions to enable it to charge more quickly . the deterrent effect of this swift action be an example of how the system can work well when it work together . I thank the Solicitor General for her kind word , and I congratulate she in turn on her appointment . I also congratulate the Government on their excellent response to the riot over the summer , which she have just outline . my hon . and learn Friend have talk about the early release scheme , which be , of course , the result of the shortage of prison place inherit from the previous Government , but do she agree that those convict and imprison as a result of the riot , and those imprison for incite the riot , should not benefit from the early release scheme ? I express my solidarity with my hon . friend and his constituent , who will have be closely affect by the awful recent event in his neighbouring constituency . I know the Attorney General be deeply move by his recent visit to Southport and what he learn there . on the early release scheme , my hon . friend will have hear the Lord Chancellor set out very clearly this week the importance of take action on the mess on prison place that this Government inherit . without the action we have take , court would have be unable to hold trial , the police would have be unable to make arrest and there would have be a total breakdown of law and order . the Lord Chancellor have provide detail of the scheme , include its carefully consider safeguard . the scheme will apply across the board to all offender , include rioter and those convict of the most serious offence . it be wonderful to see my hon . and learn Friend at the Dispatch Box . I also congratulate the Government on the speediness with which justice have be do for many of the summer ' s rioter , which be testament to the good work of the CPS and defence lawyer . what lesson can be learn more generally to ensure that speedy justice can occur for specific offence , particularly domestic violence ? the main lesson that we can take from this be how well the system can work when all of its constituent part — the police , the leadership at the top of Government , and the CPS — all pull in the same direction . that approach will inform this Government ' s commitment to mission - lead government , which will bring all the key element of the criminal justice system together and ensure that decision be take with the whole system in mind . that will particularly apply to the mission on halve violence against woman and girl . Street Crime : prosecution what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of street crime . this Government have make tackle antisocial behaviour , which blight our street and threaten many of our community , a top priority . the new crime and police Bill announce in the King ' s Speech will include strong measure to tackle antisocial behaviour , to support neighbourhood policing and to give the police strong power to crack down on antisocial behaviour and keep our street safe . what we have notice , particularly in town centre such as Ramsgate and Margate , be that antisocial behaviour , drug dealing and street crime , particularly knife crime , continue because of people ' s anxiety about give evidence against the criminal . what will my hon . and learn Friend and the Government do to give people confidence that the criminal justice system and prosecution will flow once they have give their evidence ? just this week the Prime Minister meet police , victim , family and medium company specifically to discuss knife crime , which plague my hon . friend ' s community and many other across the country . the Prime Minister have promise to double down on these crime , and to halve they in the next decade . I be part of a cross - departmental team that will work to deliver this . the Government be commit to take back our street by increase the amount of neighbourhood police , recruit more prosecutor to deal swiftly with these crime and bring forward law to ban zombie knife and machete . point of Order 10 . 39 be on a point of order , Mr Speaker . transparency of justice be vital . to that end , member of this House should be freely able to see exactly what happen at any trial in this country . yet when I try to obtain a transcript of the Lucy Letby trial from Manchester Crown court , I be tell it would cost I £ 100 , 000 . that number eventually reduce to £ 9 , 000 . in any event , that be more than any of we in this House can afford . it be critical that parliamentarian have free access to that kind of datum . will the House authority talk to the relevant Government Department to ensure that transcript of all trial be freely available to member of this House ? this be not a matter for the Chair , but I know that the right hon . Gentleman be not the only Member with concern about the cost of such transcript . I will ask the House authority to look into the matter , because such cost inhibit member . the outrageous amount of £ 100 , 000 prohibit Members of Parliament from carry out their duty on behalf of their constituent . the Solicitor General be in the Chamber , so I hope that she will take these comment on board and let we speak to the company concern . I will also take the matter up with the Clerks of the House . do the Solicitor General wish to make a comment ? if not , let we proceed . business of the House will the Leader of the House provide a statement about forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 7 October be as follow : Monday 7 October — general debate on Lord Darzi ' s independent investigation into NHS performance . Tuesday 8 October — opposition day ( 2nd allotted day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official opposition ; subject to be announce . Wednesday 9 October — Second reading of the Renters ' Rights Bill . Thursday 10 October — as well as my birthday , a general debate on sport , follow the Team GB and paralympicsgb success . Friday 11 October — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 14 October will include : Monday 14 October — Second reading of the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill . Tuesday 15 October — Second reading of the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill . Wednesday 16 October — opposition day ( 3rd allotted day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the Liberal Democrats ; subject to be announce . Thursday 17 October — general debate ; subject to be announce . Friday 18 October — the House will not be sit . the business announce for the first week back strike I as extraordinarily light . there be only a single piece of substantive Government business and half the time will be take up with general debate . this " Government of service " seem to be take it pretty easy . in fact , after 70 day , only 13 Bills have be introduce . I look up the record of the previous Government . I discover that they introduce 31 new Bills in 100 day follow the 2019 election . the right hon . Lady have quite a lot of work to do in the next 30 day , if she be go to catch up with Boris Johnson . million of pensioner be sick with worry follow the vote early this week to strip they of the winter fuel allowance , include pensioner in poverty . I acknowledge and recognise the 53 courageous Labour mp who do not support that appalling measure , but the other 350 do vote for it . I join the Leader of the Opposition in urgently call on the Government to publish the impact assessment . on 8 July , in a speech to the civil service , the Prime Minister say that his Government would be " open and transparent " . where be the openness and transparency here ? the only impact assessment that we have see be the Labour party ' s own impact assessment suggest that the policy would cause 3 , 850 death . I call on the Leader of the House to do the decent thing and publish that impact assessment . this be not so much a Government of service as a Government of secrecy . I also call for an urgent debate on the management of the early release scheme for prisoner . the Justice Secretary come to this House on 25 July and promise we that the " bad violent and sexual " offender would be " exclude " — I be quote her word directly . she also promise that domestic abuse offender would be exclude . I be sorry to say to the House that that be not what have happen . the Napo general secretary , Ian Lawrence , say : " member have share example where those with both Domestic Violence offence and Sexual Offences have be release " . he go on to say that his member — prison officer — " be extremely disappointed that this have be deny during several medium appearance by Government minister " . he call on the Government to correct the record , and I call on the Leader of the House to do so now : to correct the record and correct the inaccurate information that her colleague have provide to the public . some of the example of those be release early , contrary to the assurance that the Justice Secretary give to this House , be appalling . Lawson Natty , age 20 , who be due for early release , provide the machete that be use to kill 14 - year - old Gordon Gault , whose mother describe herself as " sicken " by the early release . Adam Andrews , who be also due for early release , brutally assault a 21 - day - old baby , leave that baby blind and paralysed . we be promise that serious violent offender would not be release early . that promise appear to have be break . not a Government of service ; a Government of shameful incompetence . it have be 70 day since the election and it have be a pretty terrible start to government : pensioner in poverty have be strip of their winter fuel allowance , while there be inflation - bust pay rise for train driver who already earn £ 65 , 000 a year ; labour party donor have be appoint to civil service position ; and there have be the botched release of prisoner , contrary to promise make to this House that violent offender would not be release early . no wonder the Government ' s approval rating have plummet at what , as far as I can see , be the fast rate for any Government in modern time . the rate now stand at minus 36 % . but not to worry : the Government do have one new supporter . Mr Djaber Benallaoua say that he will now be " a lifelong Labour voter " . the only problem be that he be a convict drug dealer who be very happy about his early release . not so much a Government of service as a Government for their donor , for their trade union paymaster , and for violent criminal who they promise would not be release early , but who they do in fact release . may I start by welcome the news that the Princess of Wales have complete her chemotherapy and be move on to the next stage of her recovery ? like you , Mr Speaker , I place on the record my thank to the Speaker ' s Chaplain , the Venerable Patricia Hillas , in her final week . we thank she for her contribution to this House . I congratulate all the newly elect Select Committee Chairs ; they play a very important role in this House . I also send my regard to Terry Wiggins , who have serve we as a chef for an astonishing 50 year . we all know Terry as the mainstay of the Debate , and I be sure that he will miss serve up the famous House of Commons jerk chicken . I know that he be look forward to have more time for walk with his dog . they must be the well - feed dog in the country . this week , for the first time in 14 year , a Labour Bill become an Act . the Budget Responsibility Act 2024 ensure that there can never again be a repeat of Liz Truss ' s disastrous mini - Budget . it come as we grapple with the £ 22 billion black hole leave by the conservative party — what a stark reminder that be of the importance of economic stability . the theme this week be the Government honour their commitment to all those who have be let down . we have publish the Renters ' Rights Bill , which will finally end no - fault eviction — a measure long promise but never realise . in order to help unlock town centre regeneration , we have begin reform of outdated compulsory rule — level up , remember that ? and to the worker of Port Talbot Steel leave hang by the previous Government , the Business and Trade Secretary announce a new deal , welcome by worker and their representative . today , we introduce the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill , otherwise know as Martyn ' s law , meet a promise that the Prime Minister make to Figen Murray , who lose her son Martyn Hett in the Manchester arena attack . I be personally delighted that we be do this today . this be a Government of service , deliver their manifesto , stick to their promise and clean up the mess leave by the conservative party . work begin this week on another commitment that we make , with the first meeting of the Modernisation Committee . I thank member from across the House who have join and contribute to the process so far , include the shadow Leader of the House and the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who be take his membership very seriously indeed . this morning , the Committee publish a memorandum set out its core principle and early priority , and I encourage member from across the House to take a look at that . we seem to be develop a common theme in these exchange . the Conservatives lose the election badly because they crash the economy , make people bad off and do not fix the foundation of this country . the shadow Leader of the House seem to think that we can just carry on as we be , but we see that movie and it do not end well . the shadow Leader of the House ask I about the prison crisis — [ interruption . ] okay , he say it be the management of the prisoner release scheme . let we just remember that we inherit from the conservative prison on the point of collapse . after the riot , we come within 100 place of our prison overflow . if we have not act , court would not have be able to hold trial and the police would not have be able to make arrest . our entire criminal justice system be on the brink of collapse . police chief warn his government that fail to act before the election would increase the risk considerably , include the risk of serious disorder . what do his government do ? absolutely nothing . we take the difficult decision that we have to in order to ensure that our prison and the whole criminal justice system do not collapse . the previous Government duck the big issue , as ever ; we act . I will not take any lecture from he about that . I notice that the shadow Leader of the House do not ask I about the NHS . the damn finding of the Darzi report , out this morning , be another utterly unforgiveable example of the state of public service that we inherit from the conservative party . the true scale of the crisis in our NHS , experience by all our constituent , family and friend every day , have be lay bare this morning . do he want to take the opportunity to apologise for that ? no , I do not think he would . I also notice that the shadow Leader of the House do not repeat the claim that he often make that the previous Government leave we a booming economy . be that because yesterday ' s growth figure confirm what we all know : that under his party ' s watch , we have no growth , fall living standard and a stagnant economy ? that be the legacy of his party , and he know it . we be fix the foundation and stabilise the economy . that be why the Conservatives lose and we win . we will not put our head in the sand . we be keep our promise — to renter , to steelworker , and , today , to Figen Murray — and restore the trust in politic squander by the conservative party . this be the change that the country vote for , and the change that we be deliver . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on glioblastoma drug treatment ? as Mr Speaker and she will know , 3 , 200 people each year be diagnose with this death sentence . it be the large killer of the under - 40s , and life expectancy at five year be just 5 % . without Government intervention in the pharmaceutical industry and the NHS , there will be no improvement for another 40 year , and we will continue to see the same number of people traumatise , dead and scandalise . I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter . I know what an amazing campaigner she have become on the issue of brain cancer , follow the tragic death of her much love sister , Margaret , whom we all dearly miss to this day . my hon . friend and I both know many people affect by this terrible disease , which be the killer of so many , and deliver people such a terrible prognosis . it be absolutely heartbreaking . I will ensure that the Health Secretary have hear what she have say . should she apply for a debate on the subject , I be sure that it would be very welcome to the House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the forthcoming business , and echo she in wish the Princess of Wales all the good in her further recovery . may I also say how proud it make I that the first Opposition day debate in the name of the Liberal Democrats have be announce ? tomorrow mark the beginning of the Jane Austen festival in Bath . it be the large festival of its kind , and a wonderful occasion to celebrate one of the city ' s most famous resident . everybody here be invite to come and celebrate Jane Austen in Bath ' s regency glory . Austen be one of the UK ' s well know female author , and her writing be still know hundred of year after she write her famous novel . she be a strong advocate for education and break down barrier for woman in education and literature , which make it all the more disappointing that even today many student will not study a female author at GCSE . a shameful 2 % of student do , accord to end Sexism in Schools . it be not just when it come to the authorship of novel that woman lack representation ; over 70 % of the set text offer by the most popular awarding body have both a male author and a male protagonist . Diverse literature enrich child ' s education . there be a wealth of inspire novel write by woman that child unfortunately do not get to read in school . if the next generation be to grow up challenging male dominance in society , boy and girl need to be expose to empower representation of woman . we need more pride and less prejudice in the curriculum . in the light of the Government ' s upcoming curriculum and assessment review , can we have a statement from a Minister on how to address the gender bias in English literature ? what a wonderful issue to raise in business question . I wish the resident of Bath , and everybody across this country , good wish in celebrate the fabulous work of Jane Austen . I have not have time to think of a well pun than the one that the hon . Lady weave into her tribute , but she be right that woman , young girl , and young boy really should study female author , and understand the contribution that woman have make to the progress of society across not just culture , the art and literature but science , engineering and technology . they be too often forget in our history and curriculum . I be sure that this matter figure in our curriculum review , and I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Education have hear she very good question . I associate myself with the word of the Leader of the House about Terry Wiggins . I know Terry over 50 year ago , as we grow up in the same area . he be also a commissioner of scout in Greenwich , and he put a lot into our local community . will the Leader of the House consider the contaminate blood scandal as a possible subject for debate on Thursday 17 October ? we be promise a full day ' s debate on the scandal follow the publication of Sir Robert Francis ' s report on the compensation scheme . I thank my hon . friend for that question . he will be aware that in the short time we have be in Government , there have be two statement to the House on the infected blood compensation scheme . over the summer , the Government work at pace , and incredibly hard , to ensure that our statutory deadline for establish the compensation scheme be meet by 23 August . that compensation scheme be now up and run , and money be be pay out . he be right that there be a commitment to provide further time for debate of the issue on the Floor of the House , and there be active discussion about bring that forward . I call and welcome the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . thank you , Mr Speaker . I urge the Leader of the House to publish the membership number for Select Committees , and urge the usual channel to get on with populate those Committees , in particular of course the Backbench Business Committee , so that we can start to schedule the debate that Back Benchers , rather than the Government , want to table . the Leader of the House have not announce when the Tobacco and Vapes Bill will come back . in Committee , I and many Labour Members propose amendment to the then Government ' s Bill that we will want to progress . I realise that the matter will be consider by the Health Secretary . will the Leader of the House also take away and consider the view that shisha lounge and the sale of paan need to be include in the measure ? otherwise , we will leave escape clause for those who want to resist take action on mouth , throat and lung cancer . I welcome the hon . Gentleman , follow his election , to his position as Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I know what fantastic work he do as Vice - Chair of the Committee in the previous Parliament , as he and I be in these session together for many hour . I look forward to work with he , and have already be in touch with he to fix up a meeting at the early opportunity , so that we can table forthcoming business in the Chamber . we will absolutely work at pace to populate the Committees and get they up and run as quickly as possible . we announce in the King ' s Speech that we would take forward the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , which will come to the House in due course . one issue that the Secretary of State be consider be how to strengthen the Bill before we introduce it by look at amendment from the previous Session . may I say how good it be to see my right hon . friend in her role as Leader of the House ? the Competition and Markets Authority , back by the Court of Appeal , find that pharmaceutical firm Auden McKenzie and Actavis UK charge excessive and unfair price for hydrocortisone tablet . nhs spending on those product rise from around £ 500 , 000 to over £ 80 million a year . producer game the system to gouge the NHS be a bad look . ten of thousand of people depend on those tablet to treat condition such as Addison ' s disease . may we have a statement on NHS procurement ? our new plan for procurement must prevent bad actor from rip off our NHS . I thank my hon . friend for his kind word . it be a pleasure to continue work with he in this new Session , as I do so closely in the last . he be a real champion for transparency , accountability and value for money in government , and he raise those important matter today . he may wish to raise they after business question , during the statement on the NHS audits that have just be carry out , as procurement be a key part of those finding . I recently visit Lindsey Lodge hospice , which serve my constituent along with St Andrew ' s hospice in Grimsby . they rely on Government for approximately a third of their income . obviously , there be concern that that income may be reduce in the near future . the volunteer do tremendous work , but they need that government support . will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement from the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to reassure those hospice about their future income stream ? that topic come up a lot in last week ' s business question , so I be sure that there would be wide support for the hon . Gentleman ' s request . the role that hospice play in end - of - life care be critical to this country . I think it would surprise most people to understand that the vast majority of hospice funding be charitable and not from the Government . I encourage he to apply for a debate , because I think that he would get a lot of support . I call Patricia Ferguson , whom I congratulate on her election to the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee . thank you , Mr Speaker . will the Leader of the House comment on the Government ' s action to reset the relationship with the Scottish Government ? the early meeting of our right hon . friend the Prime Minister with the First Minister of Scotland be widely welcome , but what more can be do to ensure that both government work together to deliver for the people of Scotland ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her election to the Chair of the Select Committee . I know that she will approach that job with gusto and be a powerful voice on those issue in the Chamber . she be absolutely right : it be important for we to work constructively and in a grow - up way with the Scottish Government . the Prime Minister have begin the process of reset the relationship . I myself have meet the Scottish First Minister , and I will go up to Scotland in the come week . we also want to strengthen the Sewel convention , to which I know she will give great consideration as the Chair of the Select Committee . may I pick up on the question ask by the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) about the infected blood scandal ? the Leader of the House confirm that there would be regulation to establish compensation for eligible person affect — the family , widow in many case , or child who be leave without parent — by the scandal . will she make time for a debate in which the Government confirm when those regulation will be make ? I congratulate the hon . Lady , too , on become Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I know she will perform the role with great passion and diligence as she do in the last session . the hon . Lady be absolutely right . the compensation scheme be now establish . those infect will receive their compensation by the end of this year , and those affect can expect to receive their compensation in 2025 . there will be further statement from the Paymaster General as the compensation scheme progress . may I draw the attention of the House to early - day motion 169 , which express my concern about the low threshold for pension credit and its cliff - edge nature ? [ that this House note that the current threshold of pension support to open the gate way of winter fuel allowance be too low ; far note the need to change the cliff - edge nature of the pension credit threshold ; and call upon the Government to capture the gateway support for those citizen with small occupational pension that take they just above the threshold . ] will we have a ministerial statement on how the Government be go to address that ? my hon . friend be a fantastic campaigner for those who be on the breadline or struggle , especially the many pensioner in his constituency . I know he will continue to raise those matter with the Government , as he should and be right to do . we have protect the triple lock , which have increase the state pension by £ 900 this year and over £ 400 next year . we be ensure that there be other support for pensioner on pension credit and align that with housing benefit . I encourage he to keep raise these question and I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear his call for a further statement . the issue of special educational need funding be well know in the House . local authority be still wait for clarity on an extension to the statutory override that allow they to fund the shortfall from core council budget , include their reserve . the deficit in Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole , where many of my constituent ' child go to school , have reach £ 64 million with reserve at just £ 65 million . council be not permit to borrow to fund the deficit , and without urgent action they will be unable to set a legally balanced budget in February . will time be make for the House to discuss special educational need and disability funding and local government finance before well - run council such as BCP become insolvent and more vulnerable child be fail ? I thank the hon . Lady for bring up an issue that be raise frequently with I and other Ministers , because , too often , those with special educational need find that our education system do not cater for they . our child ' s wellbee Bill will come to the House in due course . it will require all school to co - operate with local authority on special educational need inclusion . there will be further announcement about education funding as part of the comprehensive spending review . this Tuesday be World Suicide Prevention Day . sadly , the late statistic from the Office for National Statistics show that suicide rate be high than we have see for two decade . these be not just statistic ; they be people , and each suicide affect family , friend , colleague and community . Suicide be preventable , not inevitable , so can we have a debate in Government time on how we can prevent these dreadful suicide ? Suicide remain one of the big killer of young people in this country , and the figure be grow . it be a terrible blight on all those who be leave behind and many people struggle to come to term with it . any action that we can take on suicide prevention be action that we will take , and put mental health on a parity with physical health be a key part of the reform that the Secretary of State will be discuss in a statement shortly . many constituent across the Worth valley , Keighley and the wide area be deeply concerned about proposal to construct 65 wind turbine on Walshaw moor in Calderdale . that development will have a hugely detrimental impact on the carbon storage capacity of the peat bogs and on the ecology , but also on local community , and I be staunchly opposed to it . constituent be concerned that as a result of labour ' s choice to remove the moratorium on the development of onshore wind farm , that development be more likely to take place . could we have a debate in Government time on the negative impact of the Government ' s choice to remove the moratorium on onshore wind farm ? we make no apology for remove that moratorium , because it be absolutely critical that we increase the capacity of wind and clean energy in this country to lower bill and give we the energy security and independence that be crucial to the future of our economy and our wellbeing . the hon . Gentleman might want to raise this issue at Energy Security and Net Zero question , which will take place on 8 October . due to a legacy of financial mismanagement and effective bankruptcy leave by the previous conservative administration , service in my constituency have be cut to the quick . that include home - to - school transport for child with special educational need and disability — include child under the age of five and young people between 16 and 19 year old — which local authority do not have a statutory requirement to provide . give the well - document positive impact of early intervention , particularly for child with SEND , and the devastating effect on child age 16 to 19 of removal of provision at that point of their development , will the Leader of the House allow time to discuss whether the statutory framework meet the need of all child with SEND for home - to - school transport ? my hon . friend raise an incredibly important issue . as she have say , local authority have a statutory duty to arrange free home - to - school travel for child of compulsory school age , but many other fall outside of that obligation . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Education have hear my hon . friend ' s plea . if she apply for an Adjournment debate on this matter , I be sure that it would be grant . I will be run business question for about another 40 minute , so to help each other , short question and brief answer might be a way to get everybody in . if people be disappoint , they should look to colleague who may have take too long . the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 introduce the requirement that director and other individual verify their identity before be list at Companies House . I have find company director whose register address simply do not exist , which at the least mean that paper can not be serve , and at the bad enable fraud and other crime . may we have a debate on the progress of two thing : the secondary legislation that need to be pass for those basic check to take place ; and an update on how Companies House ' s system be progress to allow director ’ identity to be check ? the hon . Lady raise an important technical matter , and I will certainly look into the progress of that statutory instrument . give that she have such expertise and diligence in this space , she might want to consider go on the Public Accounts Committee or other Committees as those place come up in the come week . early this week , I meet a constituent who be distress by the fact that Enhertu — which could extend her life by two year — will not be available in England on the NHS . may we have a debate in Government time on the impact of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence ' s new method of evaluate health technology , and in particular , the impact on secondary breast cancer of not approve life - extend medicine for NHS use that might have be approve under NICE ' s early evaluation method ? nice ' s agreement to the use of drug on the NHS be a very topical issue that come up in the Chamber , include at business question , many time over . my hon . friend might want to raise this issue at Health question after we return from recess , but I will certainly ensure that the relevant Minister have hear her call today . I would be grateful for some help and advice from the Leader of the House . when the winter fuel announcement be make , I write to the Treasury and be tell three time no , it be a Department for Work and Pensions issue . follow that logic , when it come to vat on school fee , I write to the Department for Education , and much to my surprise it tell I that assess its impact be a Treasury issue . I be therefore stick on a merry - go - round of try to find out how this policy , which be due to be introduce in January , will impact on my constituent . will she advise I on how I can do that , and would she be kind enough to ask the Education Secretary to meet I to discuss the impact on my constituent of vat go on private school fee ? I be sure the Education Secretary would be happy to answer the hon . member ' s question on that . it a clear policy of this Government . we want to ensure that the 93 % of child who attend state school get access to the high - quality education and expert teacher they desperately need , and that be why we be impose vat on private school fee . our analysis suggest that many school and parent will be able to absorb that cost . unfortunately , that be the situation as it be . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate Hatfield Town cricket club in my constituency on its 150th anniversary ? at the recent anniversary celebration , many resident ask I about my commitment as their MP to reopen Doncaster Sheffield airport . will my right hon . friend confirm that the Government will continue to work with I , Mayor Ros and Doncaster city council and other to support progress with its reopening ? I thank my hon . friend , and I join he in congratulate Hatfield Town cricket club on its 150th anniversary . he have be a real leader on the issue of reopen Doncaster Sheffield Airport , and I know that progress be be make . a 125 - year lease have be agree , and I very much look forward to the progress that he and Mayor Ros will continue to make in once again get plane fly over Doncaster . this morning I attend Environment , Food and Rural Affairs question , and I be surprised and somewhat confused to realise that only 40 minute be allocate for they compare with the hour that be standard for other Departments . why be this Government follow what I understand be the convention under the previous Conservative Government of restrict the time allocate for EFRA question , consider that it be such an important Department , cover everything from river pollution to farming support and the biodiversity crisis ? please would the Leader of the House consider expand the time allocate to EFRA question to the full hour ? it be always a struggle to balance the demand and supply of oral question on the Floor of the House , and I know you share those concern , Mr Speaker . we look at these thing periodically , so I suggest that member enter the ballot for efra oral question , because if demand be increase significantly , we would take that into account . demand in other Departments be sometimes much high . over the summer , many parent in my constituency be in touch with concern about our local school . of particular concern to parent of child at Ark Alexandra secondary be a new rule that child must leave their mobile phone at home . many parent support measure to reduce mobile phone use and social medium use in school — they know how damaging it be — but they be really concerned about child have phone on the journey to and from school and the safety issue involve , and they want school to look at option , such as lock box , which have be use successfully elsewhere . can the Leader of the House advise I how in this House I can take forward that issue and the wide issue of improve our local school ? order . I will try to call as many member as possible , but we be really go to have to be a bit quick , otherwise other colleague will not get in . I thank my hon . friend for that question . as the mum of teenager , I know what an issue it be to balance the desire of parent to be able to contact their child and see where they be with their not want they to be on their phone all the time , especially while at school , which would be damaging to their education . school be encourage to consult parent on these issue to get that balance right . the issue of mobile phone for teenager and child be a big one , so and if she put in for a debate , I be sure she will get one . Mr Speaker , may I associate myself with your word of thank to Tricia Hillas , who have give superb service to this House and who will always have the gratitude of the Smith family , have baptise my son Charlie and Rupert in 2022 . something else that happen in the previous Parliament be the passage of my private Member ' s Bill — through to Royal Assent , with the support of the then opposition — on combat equipment theft from farm and other element of rural crime . that Act require a statutory instrument to bring it fully into force . instead of have all these general debate , will the Leader of the House bring that SI forward ? the hon . Gentleman will know that in many case statutory instrument do not require time on the Floor of the House , but as I have responsibility for triage si , I will look at the progress with that and let he know in due course . may we have a debate on the importance of investigative and public interest journalism ? the good journalist be an essential part of our democracy . I urge member to look at " the Long Read " by Tom Burgis in today ' s edition of the Guardian , " how oligarch take on the UK fraud squad — and win " . may I pay tribute to Telegraph journalist David Knowles , creator of the brilliant " Ukraine : the late " podcast , who tragically die last weekend at the age of only 32 ? I be sure my right hon . friend will join I in send condolence to his family and friend . I congratulate my hon . friend on his election as a Select Committee Chair . I certainly send my condolence to David ' s family . my hon . friend be absolutely right : investigative journalism be so important to our democracy and we should do whatever we can as a country to support it . I be sure that the Culture Secretary would be happy if he be to raise these matter with she in forthcoming oral question . the Chancellor of the Exchequer offer assurance on 29 July from the Dispatch Box about the construction of railway station at Wellington and Cullompton , but this be contradict the follow day in a letter I receive from the rail Minister , who say that those station be still at the design stage . the rail Minister offer a meeting in the Tea Room when the House be sit , but give that the House be about to adjourn for three week for the party conference and the next Transport question be not until 10 October , can the Leader of the House suggest how I might progress the case for a station at Cullompton with the Rail Minister with urgency ? I think the hon . Gentleman have do that . I be go to say the same thing , Mr Speaker . I be sure the hon . Gentleman have do that in raise the matter this morning . I will ensure that the Transport Secretary have hear that call and will ask for a Transport Minister to meet he urgently , as he be promise . first , may I pay tribute to a constituent of mine , Jack Hearn ? he turn 101 this week and be the UK ' s old judo teacher and also one of just five live veteran who fight at the battle of Monte Cassino in world war two . he be support by Forward Assist , a local charity that help veteran around the country . will the Government make time for a debate on support for veteran ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Jack . I be sure that , as be often the case , around the time of Remembrance Day there will be ample time on the Floor of the House to do what this Government and many member will want to do : pay tribute to all those veteran who serve this country so well over many year . I would like to draw the attention of the House to a recently pass anti - discrimination law in the Philippines that be aim at enhance equality and protect marginalised group which have spark a nationwide debate about the implication for religious freedom . the key question be : although the law seek to prevent unfair treatment in employment , education and public service , how can the Government ensure that religious freedom be safeguard , particularly give concern raise by faith - base group about potential conflict with their belief on gender identity and sexual orientation ? will the Leader of the House join I in question such persecution of religious freedom and will she urge the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to raise this issue with its counterpart in the Philippines ? I thank the hon . gentleman for once again raise the important issue of expression of freedom of religion or belief for all . I certainly will ask the Foreign Office to raise these issue about what be happen in the Philippines . he will know that the Government be commit to ensure that there be freedom of religion and belief for all across the world . there have be a number of tragic road traffic accident in my constituency in Wickersley , Anston , Sitwell and Whiston . I be meet South Yorkshire police to look at step we can take to prevent these accident from happen . can we have a debate on how agency , local authority and the police can work together to tackle speeding and boy racer in my constituency and across the country ? may I first congratulate my hon . friend on come so high up in the private Members ' Bills ballot ? I know that achievement will be the envy of many . my hon . friend raise an important matter about road traffic accident and road safety . we will soon update the strategic framework for road safety , and I will ensure that be bring to the House as soon as it be ready . this month , Bournemouth host the Arts by the Sea festival , the large art and culture celebration of its kind in the south - west . investment in the art and culture and in community art festival have be crucial to revitalise our seaside town by bring visitor , support the local economy and nurture a community of creative . can I ask the Leader of the House for a general debate in Government time on how we invest and support the art to help our city and town to develop ? I commend my hon . friend on her campaigning for an art gallery in her constituency and on all the campaigning she be do to bring attention to Bournemouth West and all that it have to offer . she be right that the creative sector and the creative economy be critical to regeneration and level up . this government fully support that agenda . in the town of Dudley , the Conservative - lead council have propose the introduction of parking charge . that will affect student from Dudley College of Technology , learn development , local business , trader , user of the leisure centre and my resident , who will struggle with the cost . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on how we support town centre and properly consider the potential negative impact on economic activity and community wellbee cause by the hiking of parking charge ? as the Member of Parliament for Manchester Central , I be all too familiar with the challenge of parking charge in our town and city centre . that be in part why we as a Government be ensure that we have well public transport , and in particular well bus , so that people have alternative . I know that this issue create a lot of interest , should my hon . friend wish to apply for a debate on parking charge . over the recess , I meet the Hubb Foundation in Stoke - on - Trent , which have deliver yet another fantastic holiday activity and food programme over the summer . I have see the impact of its work at first hand over many year , and it be a bittersweet moment when it hand out its 1 millionth meal a couple of week ago . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the continuation of such programme to alleviate child poverty in Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove and across the country ? my hon . friend raise an important issue . the fact that in this country in 2024 we still need to operate food bank and holiday club to stop child from starve in the school holiday be frankly something that should bring we all shame . that be why we have a child poverty strategy . we will continue to support holiday club , such as the one he describe in Stoke - on - Trent North . I thank he for raise this important matter . the Darzi report publish early today clearly outline the importance of prevention . one aspect of that be the provision of good - quality school meal and increase the uptake of free school meal . may I request consideration of a debate on an opt - out free school meal scheme , perhaps on the basis of universal credit ? that be the second question in a row on food poverty and the importance of child get access to healthy , hot , high - quality meal . my hon . friend raise an important issue about the uptake of free school meal and how they be deliver in school , so that we do not have the stigma we have sometimes see in the past . I be sure that if she put in for a debate on free school meal , she might find she bid successful . rise — order . a couple of member be stand who come in very late . I will not be take their question . our creak water infrastructure be rarely out of the news , and just this week my constituent in Shoreham have to endure burst sewage pipe . thank to year of under - investment by our water company , record amount of sewage be be pump into our river and sea . will the Government make time for this important issue to be discuss ? the state of our waterway in this country be shocking , as be the decriminalised way in which our water company have be run over many year . that be why the Government have take quick action to clamp down on the water company . just last week , we introduce the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which will eventually find its way to the House . my hon . friend might want to take part in its Second reading when it come . Digital access have become an increasingly essential part of everyday life . however , large part of my constituency suffer from both slow speed and digital dead zone , which have a massive impact on resident and business , particularly as more of my constituent be embrace flexible hybrid working . will my right hon . friend grant a debate on digital connectivity ? Digital inclusion be critical to ensure that the growth we want to see in our economy reach every part and every community . my hon . friend raise an incredibly important matter , and I be sure that the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology will want to hear from she at oral question in October . the House may be aware that holmfirth be one of the most cherished location in Yorkshire , nestle in the heart of the Yorkshire Pennines . the Holmfirth food and drink festival offer a delightful family day out brim with live music , delicious food and entertainment . this weekend , along with thousand of other , I will explore the stall for local produce and enjoy the street performer . I welcome the £ 10 million that the West Yorkshire combine authority and Kirklees council be invest in the town , which will enhance the town centre , attract more visitor to the town , its festival and local shop , as well as to venue include the Picturedrome . can we have a debate in Government time on the importance of the rural economy in the Government ' s growth agenda ? I thank my hon . friend for that question on Holmfirth , where I recently go for a short staycation . what a beautiful yorkshire town it be . it be a lot more than its reputation as the location of " last of the Summer Wine " , which many will remember . my hon . friend raise an important point . the rural economy be be continuously raise as an issue for a debate , and I be sure that we will look into it . the Grub Hub in my constituency be support some of my most vulnerable constituent , offer not only vital food support but companionship and wraparound service to help people to move forward with their life . will the Leader of the House join I in commend that organisation for its fantastic work ? while its work be fantastic , I join colleague in ask for a debate about how we ensure that there will no long be any need for food bank in town such as Aldershot . it be a disgrace that town such as Aldershot still need food bank and that food poverty be still so prominent . that be a key issue for the Government and part of the work of our cross - cut taskforce on tackle child poverty . I will ensure that the House be update on that taskforce ' s progress on an ongoing basis . recently , a lovely constituent of mine speak to I about the serious drug shortage affect Creon 25000 , which he need to treat his condition of pancreatic enzyme insufficiency . the drug be also use to treat people with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic cancer — a horrible cancer that kill my mum . Joe be now petrify because he be run out of his tablet ; he be scared to eat and terrify about the pain he will be in . will the Leader of the House provide a statement on the supply of Creon 25000 and its alternative Nutrizym , which be also in short supply ? access to appropriate drug freely on the NHS continue to be raise with I and the Health Secretary , who be in his place as my hon . Friend ask that question . I be sure that he will take that up ; I will write to he to ensure that he do . one third of the child in my constituency now live in poverty , and a recent report by Shelter show that an increase in homelessness and child poverty be affect many part of the country . will my right hon . friend find some Government time for a debate on child poverty and its cause ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that child poverty , which be still too high and which blight we all , be a cross - cut issue , and housing be a key part of it . that be why we have the cross - cut taskforce look at these issue and why , just this week , we introduce the Renters ' Rights Bill , which will look at the challenge of the private rent sector . the devastating impact of knife crime be of huge concern to my constituent in Redditch and the village . one constituent , self - defence instructor Pete Martin , who witness a friend be stab 12 time , have be work with local school to educate young people on the danger of carry knife . will the Leader of the House make space in Government time for a debate on how we can support the work of people such as Mr Martin and reduce knife crime in our community ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place , and it be a pleasure to visit he before the election . he be absolutely right , and tackle knife crime be a key part of our mission to have safe street . just this week , the Prime Minister , along with campaigner Idris Elba , launch the coalition to tackle knife crime . last month , we launch a nationwide call to hand over zombie - style knife and machete , ahead of such weapon be ban from our street on 24 September . small business , coffee shop and trader be the lifeblood of constituency such as mine in Peterborough and across the country . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Federation of Small Businesses , which celebrate its 50th anniversary this Sunday ? will she also make time in the House for we to debate the amazing contribution make by the 5 . 5 million small business owner in this country ? my hon . friend make a really important point about the vital contribution of small independent shop to our high street , include his in Peterborough . let we be honest : the conservative party hollow out high street and town centre across the country . but this government will turn the tide and put that right . the Altrincham minor injury unit be rely on and appreciate by my constituent , but it have be close since 2020 , and the Trafford locality board recently recommend that it should never reopen . I be oppose that recommendation , shape as it be by 14 year of conservative failure on our national health service . could we have a debate in Government time about the importance of minor injury unit in alleviate pressure on A & E department and in ensure that our national health service can truly be a neighbourhood health service ? as the Secretary of State for Health be about to outline in his statement , the truly shocking state of our NHS after 14 year of under - investment and neglect be be lay bare . one of the key priority he will shortly outline be to ensure that our service move from hospital to community , and minor injury unit such as that in Altrincham would be important to that endeavour . antisocial behaviour be ruin life . in my short time as the MP for Leeds South West and Morley , I have be inundate with resident ' request for help about persistent antisocial behaviour by neighbour and by repeat offender in public space and park . give that the previous Government decimate the service available to council and the police to deal with the issue , will my right hon . friend the Leader of the House please grant an urgent debate in Government time to get the police and council the resource they need to deal with this persistent problem ? tackle antisocial behaviour be a top priority for this Government , which be why we will get thousand more police and police community support officer on our street , with neighbourhood policing role back in action . it be also why we will bring in tough new power and legislate to ensure that they be as effective as possible . resident in South Norfolk be be let down badly by Royal Mail . those live in the Poringland area be wait week to receive urgent post , such as NHS letter , legal document and birthday card . can we have a debate in Government time about the importance of Royal Mail connection in our rural area to ensure that we get post deliver on time to the people who need it the most ? the universal service be vital to community such as the one my hon . friend represent . that be why any change to it will be a matter for the House to debate thoroughly and robustly , and I be sure my hon . friend will want to take part in any such debate . nhs : Independent Investigation with permission , I would like to make a statement on Lord Darzi ' s investigation into the NHS . unlike the last holder of this office , this Government will be honest about the problem the NHS face and serious about fix they . that be why I ask Lord Darzi , an eminent cancer surgeon who serve both Labour and Conservative - lead government with distinction , to conduct an independent investigation into the state of our national health service . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in thank he for produce this expert , comprehensive report , a copy of which I have place in the Libraries of both Houses . I tell Lord Darzi that we want hard truth , wart and all . his finding be raw , honest and breathtaking . he say : " although I have work in the NHS for more than 30 year , I have be shock by what I have find " . he have uncover an enormous charge sheet , too long to list in this statement , so these be just a few : the NHS have not be able to meet its promise to treat patient on time for almost a decade ; patient have never be more dissatisfied with the service they receive ; waiting list for mental health and community service have surge ; 50 year of progress on cardiovascular disease be go into reverse ; and cancer be more likely to be a death sentence for NHS patient than for patient in other country . it be not just the sickness in the nhs that concern Lord Darzi , but sickness in society . child be sicker today than a decade ago and adult be fall into ill health early in life . that be pile pressure on to the NHS and hold back our economy . those be some of the symptom ; the report be equally damn on the cause . first , a decade of under - investment leave the NHS 15 year behind the private sector on technology , with few diagnostic scanner per patient than almost every comparable country , include Belgium , Italy and Greece , and in 2024 mental health patient be treat in victorian building with cockroach and mouse infestation , where 17 man be force to share two shower . secondly , there be the disastrous 2012 top - down reorganisation oversee by Lord Lansley . Lord Darzi ' s assessment be damn : " a calamity without international precedent … it take a ' scorch earth ' approach to health reform " . " by 2015 … minister be … put in place ' workaround and stick plaster ' to bypass the legislation " . " rather than liberate the NHS , as promise , the Health and Social Care Act 2012 imprison more than a million NHS staff in a broken system for the good part of a decade " . " the effect … be still feel to this day . " just imagine if all the time , effort and billion of pound waste on dissolve and reconstitute management structure have instead be invest in service for patient — clearly , the NHS would not be in the mess it find itself in today . thirdly , there be coronavirus . everyone can see the last damage cause by the pandemic , but until now we do not know that the pandemic hit the NHS hard than any other comparable healthcare system in the world . the NHS cancel far more operation and routine care than anywhere else . as Lord Darzi write : " the pandemic ' s impact be magnify because the NHS have be seriously weaken in the decade precede its onset . " in other word , it be not just that the Conservatives do not fix the roof while the sun be shine ; they douse the house in petrol and leave the gas on , and covid just light the match . that be why waiting list have balloon to 7 . 6 million today . [ interruption . ] if I be an Opposition Member , I would not complain about the diagnosis . I would take responsibility . fourthly — this sit firmly at Opposition Members ' door , so they should sit and listen — there be the failure to reform . from 2019 onwards , the previous Government oversee a 17 % increase in the number of staff work in hospital . do it lead to well outcome for patient ? no . at great expense to the taxpayer , the NHS have instead see a huge fall in productivity . we pay more , but get less — a deplorable waste of resource when so many part of our health and care service be cry out for investment . as Lord Darzi have put it : " British Airways wouldn ' t train more pilot without buy more plane . " doctor and nurse be waste their time try to find bed for their patient and deal with outdated IT when they ought to be treat patient . too many people end up in hospital because they can not get the help that they need from a pharmacy , a gp or social care . the effective reform of the last Labour Government , which drive well performance and well care for patient , have mostly be undo , and that be why patient can not get a GP appointment , an operation or even an ambulance when they need one today . that be what the Conservatives do to take the NHS from the short waiting time and high patient satisfaction in history to the broken nhs that we see today . Lord Darzi have give his diagnosis . now it be over to we to write the prescription , and we have three choice . the first be to continue the Conservatives ' neglect , and allow the NHS to collapse . that be the path on which they set the NHS , and the path that it be on today . or we could — as some of my critic on the left demand — pour ever - increase amount of money in without reform , waste money that be not there and that work people can not afford to pay . that would be wasteful and irresponsible , so we will not take that path . this government be make a different choice : we choose recovery and reform . we be take action today to deal with the immediate crisis by hire 1 , 000 gps whom the Conservatives have leave without a job while patient be go without an appointment , and agree an offer to end the strike that they allow to cripple our health service . at the same time , we will introduce the fundamental reform need to secure the future of our NHS . early today , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister confirm that the Government would publish a 10 - year plan for change and modernisation , on the foundation of Lord Darzi ' s report . our plan will deliver the three big shift need to make our nhs fit for the future . the first be from analogue to digital , give patient proper choice and control over their own healthcare , and finally realise the untapped potential of the NHS app . there will be fully digital patient record so that your surgeon can see the note that your GP write . by marry our country ' s lead scientific mind with the care of more than 1 . 5 million NHS staff , we will put NHS patient at the front of the queue for cut - edge medicine and treatment that we can only imagine today . secondly , there be the shift from hospital to community , turn our NHS into a neighbourhood as much as a national health service so that patient can get their test and scan on their high street and be care for from the comfort of their own home . that mean bring back the family doctor and build a national care service that can be there for we when we need it , able to meet the challenge of this century . thirdly , there be the shift from sickness to prevention , which mean take the decision that the Conservatives duck to give our child a healthy , happy start in life . it mean stop the targeting of junk food ad at child , ban energy drink for under - 16 , reform the NHS to catch illness early — start by offer health check in workplace and on smartphone — and deliver the Tobacco and Vapes Bill that the Conservatives fail to pass , to tackle one of society ' s big killer . Lord Darzi ' s diagnosis be that the NHS be in a " critical condition " — unless we perform major surgery , the patient will die — but he also find that " its vital sign be strong " : an extraordinary depth of clinical talent , and a share determination to improve care for patient . this be a public service , free at the point of use , so that whenever we fall ill we never have to worry about the bill . the NHS be break , but it be not beat . every person I have meet in the NHS during my first two month as Health and Social Care Secretary be up for the challenge . it will take time , but this party — the party that create the NHS — have turn the NHS around before , and we will do it again . I commend this statement to the House . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . how long have the hon . Member be here ? point of order come at the end — you can not intervene in the middle of these proceeding . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker . I thank the Secretary of State for advance notice of his statement . the NHS belong to we all , and we all care about it , so let we stop the political posturing and talk constructively about its future . we all know that our healthcare system face significant pressure , as do all health system around the world . we be live long , and with multiple and complex condition . we have wide societal pressure , such as the impact of social medium on the development of some young mind , as well as the cost pressure of miracle drug develop by our world - class life science sector for their treatment benefit , and the shock of the pandemic have have catastrophic impact on the NHS and its productivity . I believe there be much to be proud of in the NHS . its dedicated staff look after 1 . 6 million people a day — 25 % more people than in 2010 . it have more doctor , more nurse and more investment that at any point in its history . it be deliver ten of million more out - patient appointment , diagnostic test and procedure for patient than in 2010 , and we deliver the fast roll - out of vaccination for covid in the world , free our society more quickly than other country . we have more healthcare in the community , with the opening of 160 community diagnostic centre — the large central cash investment in MRI and CT scan capacity in the history of the NHS — and 15 new surgical hub ; and the launch of Pharmacy First , help to free up 10 million gp appointment for those live with more complex condition . [ interruption . ] I say to the Secretary of State that I pay he the courtesy of listen to he in silence , so I hope he will do the same for I . I didn ' t say anything ! the right hon . Gentleman be chuntere from a sedentary position . we on the — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear the right hon . Lady , and member ' constituent want to know what be be say . please , let we give the same courtesy that I expect for the Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker . we on the conservative Benches never pretend that everything be fix . we have not pretend that we have a monopoly on wisdom or that there be easy answer to the difficult challenge we face . for the NHS to thrive in its next 75 year , it need to reform , modernise and improve productivity . that be why the Conservative Government , work with NHS England , announce the NHS productivity plan at the spring Budget to transform how the NHS work through well it system for frontline staff , the expansion of service on the NHS app , which be use by three out of four adult in England , and the use of new technology , include voice - activate artificial intelligence . together , that would see productivity grow by 2 % a year by the end of the decade and unlock £ 35 billion - worth of saving , yet the plan be not mention in the 163 - page report . why be such an important and forward - look reform miss from the report , and can the right hon . Gentleman confirm that he be choose to cancel it — yes or no ? new medicine and trial be an essential part of the productivity challenge . there be only one mention of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence in the 163 - page report . do the Government have a strategy for life science and the provision of rare medicine , include cancer and dementia drug ? why have they pause the childhood cancer taskforce ? the need for reform be also why we implement the first ever long - term workforce plan with NHS England to train even more doctor , nurse , midwife and other healthcare staff for the future . the plan be describe by the NHS ceo Amanda Pritchard as " one of the most seminal moment in our 75 - year history " , yet it be not mention in today ' s report . again , why be such an important and forward - look reform miss from the report ? be the right hon . Gentleman go to cancel the new place and form of training , include apprenticeship , that be to be provide through that plan ? the need to modernise be why , in 2019 , we announce the large programme of hospital building in modern history : 40 new hospital across England by 2030 [ Interruption . ] I would be careful if I be some Back - Bench mps . today , seven new hospital have open , the Midland Metropolitan university hospital will open at the end of the year — I imagine the Secretary of State will enjoy go to its launch — and a further 18 be in construction . we be not even halfway through the decade . since January 2023 , it have be Labour ' s plan to pause , review , delay and , presumably , possibly cancel those new hospital . that be when it publish its health mission ; it be on page 6 for those who have not read it . in other word , it be always Labour ' s plan to delay and possibly cancel the new hospital , and it have nothing to do with the Chancellor ' s questionable accounting since the general election . when that be point out in the general election campaign , labour candidate run around promise voter that their new hospital or community diagnostic centre be safe with they — in Torbay , Chelsea and Fulham , Basingstoke , Watford , Bracknell , Truro , Corby and Kettering to name a few . will the right hon . Gentleman confirm that Labour will delay those hospital ? order . it be difficult , but the time limit be suppose to be five minute , and it have now be six minute 22 second , so we be well over . can you now conclude on that sentence ? thank you , Mr Speaker . there be one part of Great Britain where , on almost every measure , the NHS perform the bad : labour - run Wales . the right hon . Gentleman have compare — order . I be sorry ; I mean that you be to conclude now , not to continue with the rest of the speech . I call the Secretary of State . the first word that the shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care should have say be " sorry " . she say that she never pretend everything be fix , and that be true , but it be about time that she admit that it be her party that break the NHS in the first place . in fact , it have be a feature of debate in the House since the general election that the opposition have take absolutely no responsibility for the mess they leave our country in , include a £ 22 billion black hole and the new hospital programme that the right hon . Lady refer to , in which the timetable be a work of fiction and the money run out in March . she know that when she go to the country to claim that the programme be fully fund . she talk about the decision make by NICE ; that be a new labour reform and modernisation — one that thankfully survive the last 14 year . the right hon . Lady have endorse the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) in the conservative party leadership election . I wonder what she make of his admission that the Conservatives fail to make the tough reform that the NHS need because they be afraid of what Labour might say . be that not the most derisory excuse for 14 year of neglect ? my predecessor do not bear responsibility for everything in the Darzi report — this crisis be more than a decade in the making — but I wonder when the right hon . Lady will show some humility on behalf of her party and apologise for the mess that her Government make of our national health service . otherwise , why should anyone trust what the Conservatives have to say ever again ? this Government be give a mandate for change , and nowhere be that more need than in our NHS . the report must mark the beginning of the long , hard work of change . it be the platform from which we will launch a decade of reform that will make sure that the NHS can be there for we when we need it — for we , our child and our grandchild . it must draw a line in the sand , so that we never go back to the pain , fear and misery that the conservative party inflict on million of patient . rise — this statement will run for an hour , so please help each other . let we try Clive Efford as a good example . thank you , Mr Speaker . I will rise to the challenge . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . in 2008 , the previous Labour Government commission a report from Sir Michael Marmot on the state of society and health , and he find that there be health inequality , particularly in deprive area . ten year on , his second report find that health inequality have become even bad against the backdrop of an underfunded nhs . do that not demonstrate the urgency of the need to invest in those community under this government ? what can my right hon . friend do to direct resource into the most deprived community in order to turn around those health inequality ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that our country have stark health inequality . it be not right that people who live in different part of the country have such different chance of live well . a girl bear in Blackpool can expect to live healthily until she be 54 , whereas a girl bear in Winchester can expect to live healthily until she be 66 . that be why , with the Prime Minister ' s mission - drive approach , we will not just get our NHS back on its foot and make sure it be fit for the future ; we will also reduce the cost and burden of demand on our national health service by attack the social determinant of ill health . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . much of the content of Lord Darzi ' s report have be know for some year . none the less , today ' s report be a scathing summary of the complete devastation that the Conservatives have work on our health service and on the health of our community . we Liberal Democrats have long argue that we need to shift healthcare from hospital to high street , and from treatment to prevention , because do so improve health outcome and save taxpayer ' money . it be a win - win . but the report be long on diagnosis and short on prescription , so may I invite Ministers to read our fully cost manifesto to fix public health and primary care by recruit 8 , 000 GPs , end dental desert , boost public health grant by £ 1 billion , implement our five - year plan to boost cancer survival rate , and put a mental health expert in every school ? do the Secretary of State accept that there be an elephant in the room : social care ? will he meet I to discuss the liberal Democrat plan for social care , start with free personal care ? this bold idea would prevent many people from go into hospital in the first place , as well as enable they to be discharge from hospital fast . do he accept that it be a truth universally acknowledge that we can not fix the nhs if we do not fix social care too ? as for the dire state of our hospital and primary care estate , well , the Conservatives have leave it to fester like a wound . will the Secretary of State give the green light to hospital that be ready to rebuild , such as mine in west Hertfordshire ? will Ministers look to reform outdated Treasury rule that be prevent our integrate care board and hospital trust from spend and invest their fund in the GP practice and hospital that we need ? this Government say that they want growth . well , health and wealth be two side of the same coin , which be something the Conservatives do not understand . if Labour want economic growth , fix our health and social care must be its top priority . and it must be a priority without delay . how refreshing to have constructive opposition in the Chamber . it be clear throughout the election campaign that my party and the Liberal Democrats have much in common , both in the commitment we make , which in some case be identical , and in our share area of emphasis : the link between health and wealth , the importance of prevention and the importance of social care . as the Prime Minister reiterate again this morning , we be absolutely determined to address both the short - term crisis and the long - term need of the century in our social care system . we want to work on a cross - party basis wherever possible , so I would be delighted to meet the liberal Democrat spokesperson . hundred of thousand of operation , include dozen of my own list , be cancel because of the strike in the NHS over the past two year . do the Secretary of State agree that the Conservatives ' refusal to negotiate with the doctor contribute to the terrible state of the health service , and that end the strike be the first step towards fix the NHS ? it stick in the craw to hear the carping and criticism from the Conservatives , and their obvious bitter resentment that we be able to do in three week what they fail to do in over a year . all the while they complain about the cost of solve the strike , they say nothing about the cost they rack up — the direct financial cost of cover the strike , as well as the untold cost of misery to patient whose operation , procedure and appointment be cancel , even as the shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and her Ministers have not even bother to meet the junior doctor since March this year . the Conservatives have no ground to complain . I thank those who daily work in NHS service across our country . if the Secretary of State be truly serious about assist and support the whole of our NHS in England , across all our constituency , " wart and all " , as he say , will he explain thoroughly why the health outcome and experience of family across Wales , over the last 25 year , do not merit this attention equally ? be it perhaps because Wales be labour - run ? I have never deny , nor have the Welsh Government , that our health and social care system be in crisis across the United Kingdom , and that wait time and patient outcome be not where they should be . [ interruption . ] the Conservatives do not wish to acknowledge the truth , and even now , without a shred of humility or acceptance of the responsibility of their record in government , they carp from the sideline . they will not admit or accept that different part of the United Kingdom have different strength and weakness . regardless of the fact that there be a Scottish National party Government in Scotland or a unique arrangement in Northern Ireland , as well my friend in the Welsh Government , I be proud that in my first weekend as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , I make it my business to phone my counterpart in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . I make it clear that we will always work constructively , whatever our party and however hard we will fight each other at the ballot box . rather than point finger at other part of the United Kingdom , as the Conservatives do when they be in government , this Government be determined , just as the last Labour Government be , to create a rise tide that lift all ship . I look forward to work with every devolve Administration to improve health and care outcome across the whole of our United Kingdom . the Secretary of State be right that the future of our NHS lie in reform , and not wait until people get sick before we intervene to keep they well , but we can not do that without money . he say we can not waste money that be not there , but we be waste money that be there on the contract we have with the private sector . he know I feel strongly about this issue . million of pound be be pay to private equity - back fund to run sexual health centre in the NHS — the iCare clinic . billion of pound be be lose to the legal loan shark of our NHS — the private finance initiative company — and some trust be spend more on PFI payment than on drug . as part of the process , will he commit to an urgent review of the way in which the NHS have work with the private sector , because reform must also include restructure our debt ? my hon . friend have do a lot of work in this area and I would be delighted to meet she . let I give the Conservative party a lesson in humility . however proud I be of the last Labour Government — and I be incredibly proud of what they do to our health estate , the investment they bring in , through a range of different type of private financing , and the impact that have ; I can see the benefit in my own constituency — I have never shy away from what we do not get right . at the same time as celebrate what we get right in government , we must reflect on what we do not get right and genuinely learn those lesson , which be what we do in opposition . it take we too long to get back into government — we will learn from that for the future — but it have be really interesting to listen to Conservative Members over the past nine week . they have not learn anything , they have not get the message and they be not go to change . as Labour embark on a reform programme , may I ask whether the Secretary of State have read the report of the Mid Staffordshire public inquiry , which look at the shocking patient neglect last time Labour be in charge ? read it might temper the hubris that he be show in the Chamber today , in the face of the challenge that his colleague in Wales have certainly not manage to overcome . I gently point the hon . gentleman to the bold claim make by the now shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , about patient safety . he might like to reflect on every subsequent patient safety scandal . in fact , he might want to walk into maternity service across the country and ask himself whether the Conservatives bother to learn lesson on patient safety . pharmaceutical producer Auden Mckenzie and Actavis UK charge excessive and unfair price for hydrocortisone tablet . nhs spending on those product rocket because producer game the system . how will my right hon . friend ensure that future procurement process deter the rigging of drug price ? my hon . friend make a great point , and he have give great service to the Public Accounts Committee of this House by drill into waste , inefficiency and exploitation of the public purse . I want to work with the great life science sector and pharmaceutical industry in this country and globally , but in a spirit of genuine partnership . a really good work relationship require social responsibility ; it certainly involve not rip off the taxpayer . I welcome the report . the previous Government leave this Government with NHS and care service in the bad crisis in their history . the Secretary of State lead by emphasise the decade of underinvestment ; that need to be couple with point out the very weak workforce planning . when he meet the Liberal Democrats , will he review our cost plan to raise the investment necessary to address the issue highlight in the report and to strengthen workforce planning in order to deliver service ? fiscal policy be a matter for the Chancellor . I know on which side my bread be butter , so I will not write her Budget or spending review now , but let I reassure the hon . Gentleman that , notwithstanding the £ 22 billion black hole that the Conservatives leave in the public finance this year and the weak foundation of our economy that we have inherit , the Chancellor know as well as I do that it be investment and reform that will deliver result . it will take time — we can not reverse more than a decade of underinvestment in a single Budget or even a single spending review — but at least we have a Government able to face up to the hard choice and capable of make they . I very much welcome Lord Darzi ' s report , which expose how our country be let down by the previous Government . in my Bassetlaw constituency , I will be ask when people who need a GP appointment will get one , and when the 2 , 000 - person dental waiting list will come to an end . I be listen to my GPs and my dentist so that I can work with they to tackle this crisis . I will be meet they shortly . what be the Secretary of State ' s message to they all ? my hon . friend , who I be delighted to see represent bassetlaw , be already show herself to be an outstanding champion for her community . she raise a really good challenge that we all face as constituency mp : the public recognise that change take time and that we can not fix more than a decade of problem in the immediate future , but they want to know that at least we be hit the ground run and get the job do . I can reassure my hon . friend ' s constituent in Bassetlaw that within our first couple of month , this Government employ 1 , 000 more gps on the frontline who have be leave unemployed by the previous Conservative Government . we do that pretty much immediately . we have settle — I hope ; we await the outcome of the ballot — the junior doctor ' dispute , so we can remove the cost of disruption and industrial action and start work on get the waiting list down . we will be work at pace to deliver 40 , 000 more appointment every week so that we can cut waiting list , and 700 , 000 urgent emergency dentistry appointment so that we can ensure that people get the care they need . every single promise in our manifesto , notwithstanding the challenge in the public finance , be a fully cost , fully fund promise that we will keep and that the country can afford . may I urge the Secretary of State to learn from what be work well in the NHS , as well as from what have go wrong ? in reference to the Health and Care Act 2022 , paragraph 14 on page 121 of the report state : " the result be that the basic structure of a headquarters , region , and integrate care board ( icb ) be fit for purpose . " I draw the Secretary of State ' s attention to the Suffolk and North East Essex ICB , which be one of the most successful in the country . can we learn from that success , and build it into other area ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his constructive approach . the tragedy of the Health and Care Act 2022 be that a large part of its focus be on try to correct the enormous damage do by Lord Lansley through a top - down reorganisation that nobody want and that the country could not afford . that be why I have say very clearly that we will not repeat the mistake of top - down reorganisation . with the architecture of the system , we will take an approach of evolution rather than counter - revolution . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about learn from what be work well in the NHS , what give I great hope for the future of our national health service be that every day there be amazing people provide great - quality care , reform , innovate and show we what the future look like . it be the responsibility of this government to take the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS . that be exactly what we will do . Lord Darzi ' s report make grim reading and lay bare the failure of the last government . nhs staff up and down the country will recognise everything in it . do the Secretary of State agree that much more need to be do on retain , recruit and compensate the NHS workforce and make sure that we have a workforce fit for the future ? for all the innovation that modern technology will bring — the revolution in big datum AI , machine learning and medical advance that we will see very soon but can scarcely imagine today — health and social care will always be fundamentally a people - base service . if you do not value your people , you lose they and end up in the appalling situation that we be in today . we have invest so much money and time in train people who imagine a long future for themselves in the NHS but who , because of the reality to which they be subject by the previous Government , be now pack up and move into different career — or to other continent . we be determined not just to recruit the great staff we need , but to value and retain the brilliant staff we already have . the Secretary of State will know that cancer be the big cause of death by illness for child under 14 in the UK , and that this be Childhood Cancer Awareness Month . he will not know that it be also the third anniversary of the death of my constituent Sophie Fairall , who be 10 year old . with Sophie ' s mum Charlotte , I have be campaign for the past three year for the child and young people cancer taskforce to be set up . the taskforce be set up at the beginning of this year with the stated aim of meaningfully change detection , treatment and care for child with cancer . I have listen carefully to the Secretary of State and have hear he passionately set out that he want to focus on prevention and early intervention , yet this month we learn that he be pause the taskforce . parent of child with cancer be deeply disturb by that announcement , as be I . can the Secretary of State set out why it be make ? absolutely . I thank the hon . member for the way she put her question . I send my deep condolence to Sophie ' s family on what will inevitably be a difficult day — I suspect just the late of many difficult day — on the imaginable pain , grief and loss that they have suffer . I thank the hon . member for her work over many year campaign on child ' s cancer in this House on behalf of her constituent and so many other family affect by young cancer . the pause be because we be look at the breadth of the work of the Department to make sure that we have the right vehicle to deliver the outcome that we want . that be why we have pause rather than cancel , slam or criticise the work that she be do . I would be delighted to meet she to talk about the genesis of the taskforce and how we can take forward the outcome that she want to see . what we be try to avoid be a plethora of taskforce , and the risk that there have sometimes be — this be not a party political point , because this span successive government — of taskforce be an alternative for action . I know that she want action , so let we meet and see what we can do together . when I grow up in Stretton under the last Labour Government , I could get an appointment with my family doctor the next day . after 14 year of the Conservatives , Stretton resident now often have to travel more than six mile to a gp surgery in another village just to get an appointment for which they have already wait week . do the Secretary of State share my view that this be unacceptable , and that it fall to this Government to fix the Conservatives ' mess ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we need to make sure that we have the right staff in the right place and an equitable distribution of access to NHS service right across the country . we also want to shift from the hospital - centre nhs that we see today to a neighbourhood - centre service . that be why we have act immediately to put 1 , 000 more gps on the frontline before the end of this year . I be look forward to work with GPs to expand access to primary care right across the country , especially in community that be particularly under - serve . this review highlight the need for capital investment in the NHS . the question that NHS staff and patient in North West Norfolk have be urgent : be the Government commit to replace their hospital , which be affect by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , with a new Queen Elizabeth hospital in King ' s Lynn by 2030 — yes or no ? I can absolutely reassure the hon . member that RAAC - impact hospital be a priority . we be put safety first , and it be just a shame that when his resident have a Prime Minister in their backyard , the Conservative Government do not fix the problem . for the sake of openness and transparency , I will just mention that I be a former chair of an NHS trust and a public health academic . I recognise the real issue that be raise in the finding of the Darzi rapid review . I be grateful to Lord Darzi for refer in particular to the inequality that we have experience , and how those inequality be lay bare during covid . will the Health and Social Care Secretary expand on the cross - departmental work that he be do ? I agree with my hon . friend the Members for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) and for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) that people ' s socioeconomic circumstance drive their health status . we do not want a situation where , for every 1 % increase in child poverty , six additional baby per 100 , 000 live birth do not reach their first birthday . I thank my hon . friend for her question and congratulate she warmly on her election to the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . I be look forward to share , through the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the work that our Departments be do together , particularly on the link between mental health and unemployment and on integrate pathway . she be right about the social determinant of ill health . that be why I be genuinely excited that , through the mission - drive approach that the Prime Minister have set out , we be already bring together Whitehall Departments , traditionally siloe , to work together on attack those social determinant . the real game changer be genuine cross - departmental working , alongside business , civil society and all of we as active citizen , to mobilise the whole country in pursuit of that national mission , in which we will be tough on ill health , and tough on the cause of ill health , as someone might have say . I call the Father of the House . I greatly respect the Secretary of State , and , as an old person who rely on the NHS , I support his radical zeal . I repeat what he say in his statement : cancer be more likely to be a death sentence for NHS patient than for patient in other country . we have have this conversation previously , but can he at least look at the health system in other country , particularly those in the Netherlands , Australia , France and Germany ? those country , which have wonderful health system protect the vulnerable , use a mixture of social insurance and public and private fund to maximise input into their health service . every time the right hon . Gentleman praise my zeal for NHS reform , Labour Members get very nervous . let I reassure he that I have look at other country , and I will definitely continue to do that . I genuinely do not think that it be the model of funding that be the issue — the publicly fund , public service element . I hope that he know I well enough to understand that if I do think so , I would be more than happy making , and would quite enjoy take on , the argument , but I think that the equitable principle that underpin our NHS be one that we should cherish and protect . the single - payer model have enormous potential for the century of big datum , AI , and machine learning . there be huge potential there that we must unlock , but that do not mean that we can not learn from the way that other country organise care , particularly in the community and particularly social care . this week , I meet virtually with my friend the Health Minister in Singapore . I will continue to work with my international counterpart to learn from other country whose health outcome be far well than our . in my constituency of North Warwickshire and Bedworth , patient wait far too long for GP appointment . the conservative party have preside over stick - plaster solution , paper over the crack in our health service rather than make it fit for the future . do the Secretary of State agree that today ' s report be a chance to get the right diagnosis of the problem , so that this new Labour Government can come up with the right prescription , and my constituent can once again get the treatment that they so desperately need ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend in her place . she be absolutely right . we will take Lord Darzi ' s diagnosis to write the prescription and ensure that our reform agenda benefit every part of the country — not just big city and the wealthy community — so that every person , wherever they be from , grow up and live , have access to the very good health and care service . a key finding in the Darzi report be that NHS staff morale be low . the Medical Defence Union of medical practitioner state recently that more than 44 % of NHS staff will reduce the number of hour that they work , because of low morale . will the Secretary of State meet representative of the union to explore those issue and work out way of improve staff morale ? of course we seek to work constructively with all trade union represent staff across our health and care service , and also with the royal college . we want to work in a spirit of partnership , and we be only able to do so because people send Labour mps to Parliament to replace the Conservatives . I agree with my right hon . friend : this be the most devastating analysis that I have read of the NHS in over 30 year . it just show the challenge that lie before he . talk of challenge , will he challenge the integrate care board to focus on move resource into primary care ? in particular , will he look at what be happen in York , where Nimbuscare have be able to pull out service from the acute sector and deliver work in the community ? I be really grateful to my hon . friend for her question . she have a huge amount of expertise in health and care , and she be absolutely right about the need for that shift . I have make it very clear to ICB leader and to trust across the country that I want more focus on secondary prevention , which mean much more activity in the neighbourhood . I know that she will keep on champion these cause . she be a good critical friend , and I know that she will hold my foot to the fire to ensure that I deliver . I declare my interest as the husband of an NHS doctor ; I also serve as a non - executive director of my local NHS trust . the last time that Lord Darzi be bring into service be by a Labour Government , shortly before they appoint he to the House of Lords . will the Secretary of State take step to ensure the wide possible input from senior clinician ? it be clear that some , include Professor Sir John Bell , do not share Lord Darzi ' s prescription for the improvement of the NHS . will he also apologise to my constituent for the doubt that he have cast over the future of the new Hillingdon hospital , on which work have already start under the previous Government ? I be not sure that be a fair characterisation of Sir John Bell ' s position . I have a huge amount of respect for he . I be grateful to Lord Darzi for write the diagnosis . give that the conservative party be in government for 14 year , repeatedly promise to rebuild Hillingdon hospital and leave my Department in a position where the money for the new hospital programme run out in March , the hon . Member have some brass neck to point the finger at we while he be in opposition . in 2016 , the Horton hospital in my constituency lose its consultant - lead maternity unit — a temporary downgrade that end up be make permanent three year later . be it not about time that someone from the conservative party apologise for the damage do to Banbury ' s hospital , as well as to the NHS as a whole ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend here . his constituent can already see that he be not backwards in come forwards . he will stand up and champion their interest in this House as a great constituency MP . when it come to the conservative party , sorry seem to be the hard word . I welcome the announcement of the Secretary of State about the shift from hospital to community care . my fellow Liberal Democrats and I fully believe that fix social care be part of the solution in get the NHS back on its foot , so I also welcome the announcement of a national care service . part of care in the community be of course the hospice sector . I recently meet the chief executive of St Catherine ' s hospice , which be in the constituency of the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) . he highlight to I that , although the hospice have 24 bed , it be currently use only 12 of they . what assurance can the Secretary of State give I , and people right across the country , that fix the hospice sector will be part of the solution as we take the NHS forward ? I be so grateful for that question , not least because it give I the chance as a constituency MP to say a huge thank you to St Francis hospice and Haven House child ' s hospice for the care they provide to constituent , like so many other hospice around the country . I know that the sector be under real pressure . we look forward to work with the sector throughout the period of the spending review and the 10 - year plan , not only to support our hospice but to improve end - of - life care , which be pertinent to debate that I know this House and the other place will have about how we ensure a good death for everyone , in every part of the country . on Tuesday , I be at the Birmingham child ' s hospital . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the excellent staff on their work and their commitment to each individual patient who go through the door ? that evening , I be also with a local gp at Sparkbrook health centre , Dr Abid Bhatti , whose frustration be with the outdated computer system . if he could get one message across to the Secretary of State , it would be that he have to reboot his computer numerous time a day . will the Secretary of State put resource in to ensure that the it be up to date ? first , my hon . friend be right that we should celebrate and thank staff who be do an outstanding job against a very difficult set of circumstance . on his second point , we have to ensure that , on the tech side , we unlock productivity in the system . have literally sit look over the shoulder of GPs at their IT system , I well understand those frustration . for the benefit of all observer , there be sometimes a perception that I be up against NHS staff when it come to reform . actually , it be staff who be cry out for change . one aim of the Lansley reform be to transfer from Ministers to clinician decision on the day - to - day run of the health service . it be not clear from his statement whether the Secretary of State intend to change that process , but let I give he a constructive proposal that he might take on board , which be to streamline the business planning side of the NHS . staff have to go through multiple bid and preparation of business plan before decision be make . that mean that more money be spend on employ business consultant than consultant in hospital . I have campaign for this change for many year . will he take that on board ? [ interruption . ] the Minister for Secondary Care be whisper in my ear that it be her frustration with exactly the bureaucratic process that the hon . Gentleman describe that lead to she seek election as a Member of Parliament to sort they out , so I defer to she on this one . on a serious note , he be right that wherever we find waste and inefficiency design in , we must deal with it . I want to see an nhs that be more clinically lead , free from political interference . we must also be honest : as it be such an enormous part of the public sector , which the public pay an enormous price for and value so much , there will always need to be an accountability relationship . what I have try to build with NHS England in the last couple of month , with real joy in the process , be a real team between the Department of Health and Social Care and NHS England , as well as the team across the country . I look forward to continue to galvanise that team as we embark on the 10 - year plan process . in my constituency , a staggering 28 % of patient say that it be " not easy at all " to get through to someone at their GP practice . bad , the figure for patient who say that do this be " generally easy " be far below the national average . do the Secretary of State agree that the Conservatives have push the NHS to break point , and only this Government can get the NHS fit for the future ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend in her place , stand up for her community in Penistone and Stocksbridge . in opposition , it be very frustrating watch successive minister promise well hold music for people try to get through to their gp , rather than solve the problem of access . fix general practice , and build general practice so that it can meet the need of this century , will be a vital part of our 10 - year plan process . may I make the Secretary of State a little more nervous ? the Darzi report make seven high - level recommendation , the fourth of which be to drive productivity in hospital . from 2017 , in south Essex we see a merger of Basildon , Chelmsford and Southend hospital to create the Mid and South Essex NHS Hospital Trust . it have not be an unmitigated success . as local mp , we be promise significant back office saving that could be channel into patient care . in fact , the reverse have be true , and there have be such a turnover of senior manager in that trust in recent year it have be like a game of musical chair . the trust be now try to appoint three permanent manager and director for each hospital to provide stability , which make sense , but be offer a salary of £ 200 , 000 for each post , which be more than the Prime Minister earn to run the country . now that this be on his watch , will the Secretary of State take a personal interest ? we should pay a good rate for that job , but £ 200 , 000 send the wrong signal to all the other very hard - work people in the trust . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . he be not too far away from I geographically , but he be mile away from I politically , and I always get nervous when he stand up to praise I . we have to keep a sharp eye on value for money . the Darzi report present some politically challenging message about NHS management . I could be wildly popular with the country if I stand up and say , " I ' m go to take the axe to management across the country and sack load of manager . " what we need be well management and a sharp eye on value for money . the NHS would not work without good leadership . we have to ensure that we have the right people in the right place , deliver against the public ' s expectation , so it be a more nuanced position , but I be sure that what he say will have be hear by his local trust . I will certainly keep an eye on value for money across the country . the Darzi report rightly say that prevention be well than cure , and that public health intervention that protect health be far less costly than tackle the consequence of illness and ill health . do my right hon . friend agree that the recklessness and incompetence of the 14 year of conservative government , strip million of pound from local authority , which deliver the public health work , have contribute to child be sicker than they be 10 year ago , and adult get iller soon ? my hon . friend be right , and at some point the Conservatives will have to take responsibility for it . we learn through bitter experience that if we do not change as a party , the country would not choose to change the Government . long may the Conservatives continue , therefore , with their head in the sand , and long may we continue to get on with the job of clear up their mess and build an NHS that be fit for the future . the relationship between the NHS and local government , and between my Department and local government , be of particular importance in relation to social care , which be why I be especially delighted that the Prime Minister choose this week to appoint Tom Riordan , the chief executive of Leeds city council , as second permanent secretary . he be an outstanding public servant with a demonstrable record on health and care integration , public health and prevention . I look forward to have that local government perspective , and local community delivery perspective , at the heart of our Department . I think the whole House agree with what the Secretary of State say in his statement : the NHS need reform . in reality , when I speak to people in the NHS , almost all of they say that this be not about a shortage of money , but about the legendary level of waste , bureaucracy and mismanagement . indeed , the report refer specifically to the huge number of regulator , accountant and bureaucrat from the top down . be there recognition among the NHS senior leadership that management reform be a critical part of improve healthcare in the United Kingdom ? I welcome the hon . member to his place and thank he for that question . I be always cynical about huge volume of regulation . we reassure ourselves as legislator and regulator that put regulation in place mean that we have deal with the issue . but the problem be that if we fail to deliver , we put another regulation in place , then another , and then more , and before we know it , we have drown the people responsible for delivery in so much regulation that they can not sort the wheat from the chaff or see the wood for the tree , compromising standard and patient safety . that be why I welcome the work that Penny Dash have do in relation to the Care Quality Commission , and we will continue to work with she to reduce the burden of regulation , focus on the thing that really matter and free NHS staff from red tape . I hope that he find that reassuring . I plead with he not to send his party leader to agree with I as well , or I really will be in trouble . I declare an interest as the mother of an NHS nurse . it be important that we remember what be at the centre of this issue : people . three individual come to my Carlisle surgery last week because they be at the end of their tether about the care that their love one have receive , or not receive , at our local hospital . one be the husband of a woman who have profound physical disability and can not leave the House unaccompanie . she now have no trust in her local hospital because , among other thing , her recent care involve she be feed food that she be know to be allergic to . I also see the parent of a young woman who have epilepsy , a physical disability and profound anxiety . the failure to put in place a care plan to account for all that mean that she be now self - harm . the other case be that of an elderly woman whose husband be discharge from the hospital without her consent . he be now in a care home 20 mile away , and she can not visit he . will the Secretary of State assure those people that this Government will not only fix our nhs , but restore their break trust in it ? I be so grateful to my hon . friend . I enjoy visit her Carlisle constituency ahead of the general election campaign , and I look forward to work with she to improve health service there and across the north - west , especially in the rural and coastal community that rely on the hospital in Carlisle , as well as on more local neighbourhood service . I must warn new member that one of the most depressing thing about the last nine year have be constituency advice surgery , where people would come to see we about the consequence of the failure of Government and the failure of this place . we owe it to they to do well — well integration of health and care service , well access and outcome , and well join - up care . as she have painfully describe , if we do not tackle the problem early , they become multiple , high - cost and personal tragedy . we have see enough of that . famously , the House have not see an impact assessment of the withdrawal of the winter fuel allowance from frail 85 and 90 - year - old on low income . have Lord Darzi or the Secretary of State see an assessment of the impact of that decision on NHS bed capacity over the come winter ? the hon . member be an experienced Member of this House , as both a former Chair of the Treasury Committee and a former Treasury Minister , so she know how impact assessment be do at the Treasury . she know that impact assessment of all the Chancellor ' s fiscal decision at the Budget and the spending review will be publish at that time . she also know , I suspect , that despite the withdrawal of the winter fuel allowance from some pensioner — it will be target at those most in need — they will still be well off because the Government have commit to maintain the triple lock and to extend the warm home discount scheme and the available hardship support , so that pensioner be not leave behind as we clean up the £ 22 billion mess that the Conservatives leave behind . Lord Darzi ' s report lay bare the scale of the challenge that our NHS face . do the Secretary of State share my deep concern that because of the conservative party ' s dismal record , the progress make by the previous Labour Government on heart disease and stroke — of which I have have recent personal experience — be now in reverse ? the number of people in England die from cardiovascular disease before the age of 75 have rise to its high level in 14 year . I be delighted to see my hon . friend in the House represent my old east end stomp ground . I wish she and her husband well in his recovery , and for their recovery , as a family , from his experience . let I reassure she that , when it come to the future of health and social care , we will clean up the mess that the Conservatives make . that will take time . the reverse in the progress make on cardiovascular disease , and the early warning sign of an uptick in smoking , be why we must put public health and prevention at the forefront . that be not just about what be good for the individual , their health and their chance ; look at what the Office for Budget Responsibility say today about the long - term cost to the Exchequer . we have no choice but to act . a key conclusion of the report be the absolute necessity of focus on productivity and not just throw money at the NHS ; I think we all agree on that . minister be constantly tell we that government be about make difficult decision — something that that we already know . why , then , on one of his first opportunity , do the Secretary of State do the absolute opposite of that ? in solve the doctor dispute , he take the easy option of throw money at it , and do not require productivity enhancement and change . will he reassure I that in future he will practise what he preach ? I like the hon . Gentleman very much , but what audacity to criticise this government for clean up the Conservatives ' mess . he fail to acknowledge the cost to the Exchequer and to patient in delay and cancel operation , appointment and procedure . More than £ 1 billion have be lose and more than 1 million appointment cancel because of the Conservatives ' gross incompetence and failure to understand the difference — they be penny - wise and pound - foolish . that be why they have be send into opposition and Labour have be trust to clean up their mess . there can be no great example of the previous Government ' s failure than the shocking outcome for our child and young people , as Lord Darzi ' s report highlight . our child now have some of the bad health outcome in Europe , with high rate of obesity , diabete and asthma , and poor oral and mental health . from head to toe , they have be fail . will the Secretary of State ensure that the Government ' s long - term plan for our NHS will give young people ' s health the priority that it deserve ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend in her place . she might be from the wrong side of the river , but she be absolutely right about the importance of prioritise child ' s health . as the Prime Minister say this morning , it be shocking that the no . 1 cause of hospital admission among child age between six and 10 be tooth decay . I be criticise by the shadow Secretary of State , who say that I call our child " short and fat " ; she be more outraged by my call out the scourge of childhood obesity that her Government fuel than she be by the scourge of child obesity itself . that be why we will act and why the Conservatives fail . I welcome the fact that the Health Secretary talk about a shift from hospital to community care ; that build on Lord Darzi ' s find that 13 % of bed be occupy by people who be wait for care in more appropriate setting . care for patient in community hospital be much more cost - effective than care for patient in big acute hospital like the Royal Devon and Exeter hospital where I live . what think have the Secretary of State give to the use of community hospital that have lose bed in the last decade , such as Seaton , Axminster , Honiton and Ottery St Mary ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the value of community hospital , step - down accommodation and care close to people ' s home — or , well still , wherever possible , in their home , so long as it be clinically safe and the right support and care be available . the shift from hospital to community will be at the heart of our 10 - year plan for reform and modernisation . like lot of his colleague on the liberal Democrat Benches and lot of those on the Government Benches behind I , the hon . Gentleman have already do a good job of put his local lobbying of Ministers on the record in the House . rise — Order . I be aim to end this statement at 1 pm . I remind member that anyone who be not in for the start of the statement will not be call . a recent survey of staff at East Kent Hospitals University NHS foundation trust show that less than half of employee would be happy for their love one to be treat at an east Kent hospital . that be a devastating verdict from staff , show the impact on their morale and on confidence in the community for the care that people need . do the Secretary of State agree , however , that a broken NHS be not the fault of staff like they , but down to the previous Government ' s decade of austerity and top - down reorganisation of the NHS ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend in her place . she be absolutely right . I feel really sorry for NHS staff for what they have be put through over more than a decade of mismanagement and political incompetence , and we will work with they to clean up the mess . she establish exactly the right test , which be whether we would want our love one to be treat in our local health and care service , and whether we would have confidence that , in every case , on every occasion and in every interaction , they would have access to the good - quality care . the truth be that we do not have that certainty , and too often it feel like chance . that be why we will always put the patient voice , the patient interest and the patient experience at the heart of our reform and modernisation programme . I thank the Secretary of State for the honesty in his statement , and for his contact with the regional Minister responsible at the Northern Ireland Assembly . those be the first action of a Secretary of State who , I suggest , do not run away from issue but take they head on . I congratulate he on that . I appreciate the terminology use in the report , which outline the seriousness of condition in the NHS but also highlight the fact that the vital sign be still strong . will the Secretary of State outline how he intend to address the fact that the NHS in devolved region be in an arguably bad condition ? will he confirm that the review will incorporate Northern Ireland and will he ensure that the finding , new practice and standard will be in place for Northern Ireland , along with increase funding in a new funding formula ? I thank the hon . gentleman for what he say ; come from he , that mean a great deal to I . I reassure he that I be committed to work with Ministers in all devolve administration to improve health outcome for everyone in every part of our United Kingdom . I know that the system be particularly press in Northern Ireland and I will do whatever I can , work with Ministers in Northern Ireland , to help that situation and create the rise tide that lift all ship right across the UK . I truly learn to appreciate the NHS when I become a parent and see the care give to my family and child . it therefore horrify I , have sit in A & E with an ill child , to see in Lord Darzi ' s report that 100 , 000 infant wait for over six hour in A & E last year . do the Secretary of State agree that that be a shocking state in which to leave the NHS ? will he commit to bring the number down and make sure that parent do not have to endure that terrible wait ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend represent Calder Valley . he have capture the fear and anxiety about the length of the wait experience by far too many parent when they access A & E department . it be a terrifying experience , particularly for parent with small child , to be in that situation . frankly , the lack of focus on paediatric waiting list and waiting time , whether in a & E or for elective , really be shameful . we have get to put child first and that be exactly what this Government will do . my constituent in Bournemouth West have face rise NHS waiting time ; we have GP surgery close despite rise population and health burden ; there be no dentist accept any NHS adult patient and resident be be tell to go to Southampton ; and the junior doctor and nurse I meet be devastate that they can not deliver the quality of service that they want to . do the Secretary of State agree that although the road ahead be long , Lord Darzi ' s frank and raw assessment be the first step to recovery under a Labour Government ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend in her place represent the people of Bournemouth . the great thing about where we be at this moment be that , for the first time in a long time , there be a feeling of hope and optimism about what the future could be . we be determined to build on that and give staff and patient the confidence of know that the good day for the NHS lie ahead . Lord Darzi ' s report highlight the use of capital expenditure to cover in - year spending by successive Tory Governments . money intend for long - term investment have be redirect over and over , and that have exacerbate the extremely serious and urgent problem that the Secretary of State so rightly raise today . do he agree that that have stop we make progress on capital project that would enable big productivity improvement and improve access to care for all , particularly those in my constituency of Leyton and Wanstead ? I be delighted to see my parliamentary neighbour in his place ; he have big shoe to fill and he will certainly do that . the Chancellor and I be determined to break the vicious cycle in which ballooning cost and overspend in day - to - day spending see raid on capital and tech budget to fund the shortfall . the £ 22 billion black hole that we have inherit be a direct example of exactly where conservative short - termism lead . that be why , in respect of the spending review , I assure my hon . friend that productivity , tech and capital will be my focus in my representation to the Chancellor and in the work we will do together to fix the mess that the Conservatives leave behind . rise — Order . I ask Members to help each other with one or two - sentence question . to return to a subject close to the Secretary of State ' s heart , do he agree that people ' s actual experience be how we will measure whether the NHS have be improve ? one of my child ' s grandparent , who be diagnose under a Labour Government , have 12 great year of cut - edge treatment and 12 year with their grandchild . their grandfather , who be diagnose under a Conservative Government , have 12 week . I be grateful to my hon . friend for the work she do champion Milton Keynes . therein lie the challenge : it can not be right that delay in diagnosis lead to the difference between life and death . I be very lucky that my cancer be catch early . it be diagnose quickly and treat quickly . not everyone be fortunate , and I be so sorry that my hon . friend ' s family be bear the consequence of what happen when thing go wrong . despite the damn analysis of the state in which the Conservatives leave the NHS , Lord Darzi say that its vital sign remain strong . do the Secretary of State agree with the case for the health service be taxpayer fund , free at the point of use , and base on need and not the ability to pay ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend from Dudley . I agree wholeheartedly , 100 % , unequivocally . in a recent conversation , a nurse in Brunswick Village in my constituency share her damn experience of the increase number of black alert in her hospital . do the Secretary of State agree that , although her experience be no surprise to many who have use the NHS recently , the Tories have push our NHS to the brink and it be up to Labour to fix it and make it fit for the future ? absolutely . the amazing NHS staff in my constituency work tirelessly , day in and day out , in our local hospital and surgery . will my right hon . friend join I in thank they , and will he be clear that Lord Darzi ' s shocking finding be not on they , but on the appalling legacy of the Conservatives , who still have not apologise ? nhs staff do not break the NHS — the Conservatives do — and this Labour Government will mobilise they to help fix it . it be great to see the Prime Minister speak this morning at the King ' s Fund , where I work as director of policy for a number of year . in my constituency , I meet a man who have be tell he need urgent surgery on his leg , but be still wait 18 month later and have have to give up work . it be clear from today ' s report that too many people have be stick on NHS waiting list and lock out of work . do the Secretary of State share my view that a healthy nation be critical to a healthy economy , and will he work with his colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions to deliver that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : the health of the nation and the health of the economy be inextricably link . under this Government , the Department of Health and Social Care be a Department for growth as well as a Department for health and care , and the Chancellor understand those linkage too . I can say to my hon . friend and all of her friend at the King ' s Fund — we be delighted to see they host the Prime Minister this morning — that unlike our predecessor , this government can not get enough of expert . that conclude the statement . we have have more than 45 contribution from Back Benchers , so I thank you for your patience . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . we be all passionate about our hospice , our hospital , our GP practice and the other health service that our constituent get . come to this place be not for the faint - hearted , but be it appropriate for the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to adopt the tone that he bring to the Chamber early ? as I say , we be all passionate , but perhaps his tone — his bedside manner , may I say — need a new approach on occasion . I note his more collegial tone later in the statement , but to tell Opposition hon . member — we be all hon . member in this place — to sit down and listen , or to liken some previous holder of his role to arsonist and similar paraphernalia , be not befit of this Chamber . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I like the hon . Lady very much , and I will just say two thing in response : first , she have be around in this Chamber a long time . conservative Members can not sit and heckle , then get cross when Ministers respond robustly . secondly , I think that be a perfectly legitimate analogy ; indeed , I might say that the arsonist should not complain about the fire brigade . I remind all hon . member that good temper and moderation be the characteristic of a good debate . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will recall that I have raise in the House the use of crossbow by criminal . these be lethal weapon . the previous Government add to the list of weapon that be ban , and the current Government be implement those measure . have you have any notice of a statement be bring to the House by minister to respond to the increasingly press cry from those who want to see crossbow add to that list of ban weapon ? I thank Sir John for his point of order . it be not a matter for the Chair , but I can clarify that we have not have notice of a statement . Bill present Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Yvette Cooper , support by the Prime Minister , Pat McFadden , Secretary Ian Murray , Secretary Jo Stevens , Lucy Powell and Dan Jarvis , present a Bill to require person with control of certain premise or event to take step to reduce the vulnerability of the premise or event to , and the risk of physical harm to individual arise from , act of terrorism ; to confer relate function on the Security Industry Authority ; to limit the disclosure of information about license premise that be likely to be useful to a person commit or prepare an act of terrorism ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Monday 7 October , and to be print ( Bill 9 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 9 - en ) . Sir David Amess Adjournment Debate Motion make , and question propose , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming Adjournment . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) I be honour to open this debate in the memory of our great friend — my great friend — Sir David Amess , a fall comrade whose plaque I be look at right now . it be on the other side of the Chamber , just above where he use to sit ; appropriately enough , it be directly opposite that of Jo Cox , another fall comrade who grace this House while she be here . as there be a number of new member in the Chamber , maybe nervously wait to make their maiden speech — I remember that feeling , too — perhaps I could explain why we call this debate the Sir David Amess debate . it be not just in honour of his service , but because he be a past master at make use of it . in essence , David would manage to cram a vast number of different topic , usually relate to his constituency , into a very small amount of time . from memory , the all - time record be 20 different subject in 12 minute , each of which mysteriously lead to a subsequent press release . he basically turn it into an art form , and as a result , the end - of - term Adjournment debate be always know in the Commons Tea Room as the Sir David Amess debate . as such , after his loss , Mr Speaker and the House authority decide to turn that from de facto to de jure , and formalise it by give the debate his name . I be delighted that we have do so , because it help to keep his name alive . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? yes , of course — even on the Adjournment . I commend the right hon . gentleman on the speech he be make . every one of we who have the pleasure of know Sir David Amess can picture he over on the far side of the Chamber . he be able to rattle off about 30 thing at some speed , every one of they pertinent to his constituency , but he do it with a grace and respect that we all love , and we miss he dearly . be it the right hon . Gentleman ' s intention to do the same — 30 item in about 12 minute ? no , I can reassure the hon . Gentleman and the House that I only intend to raise three topic . before my right hon . friend leave the subject of Sir David , whom I first meet in the 1970 — in a different place , and when I be briefly in a different party — I ask he to confirm my recollection : that in all those many year , I can not think of a single occasion when David say a mean , unkind or unfair thing about anyone . there be not many people about whom one can say that , and I for one regard he as an inspiration . I generally agree with my right hon . friend , particularly about defence matter , and he have sum my great friend up very well . at the end of my speech , however , I will make a small revelation about David and the 1983 general election , which I hope colleague will find amusing . of course , David Amess be a famous Back Bencher — he spend his career in this place entirely on the Back Benches . during the 19 year that I be on the Front Bench , I try to do all kind of thing , but I be absolutely certain that David Amess achieve far more than I ever do speak from the Back Benches . that tell a story of its own : as David illustrate , it be perfectly possible to make a huge difference from all part of this House , not only to one ' s constituent but to this place . I think my right hon . friend be be too modest about his own achievement . that be probably true . I hope Hansard get that ! I want to raise three specific topic . the first be animal welfare ; the second be local NHS service , perhaps in a non - partisan way ; and the third and final be the story about the election . to turn to animal welfare first , David be an absolutely renowned animal lover . he frequently raise a number of animal welfare issue in this House and campaign for they passionately , include by form alliance with people on the other side of the aisle , as they would say in Congress . specifically , he be a patron of the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation , a wonderful organisation run by two brilliant people , Christopher and Lorraine Platt . it have actively campaign for a number of year on animal welfare issue such as increase penalty for animal cruelty , seek to ban import of hunt trophy and end the cruel use of farrow crate for sow and piglet . it have succeed with one of those — two more to go . David be also a serial entrant to the Westminster dog of the year competition . every year he would faithfully enter his dog , and every year he would come back to his office full of faux outrage about the fact that , for some inexplicable reason , his dog have not be award the prize . my office be around the corner on the same corridor , and we always know to hide when David be come back from the competition , except that in his final year he enter his french pug name Vivienne . she be name , incidentally , after Julia Roberts ' s character in " Pretty Woman " . only my mate could name a pet after a lady who earn her money in that way . when David put Vivienne in , he be ask by a local journalist , " why should member of the public vote for Vivienne rather than one of the other dog ? " his answer be , " because Vivienne want Southend to become a city . " he win twice : after he be murder , Southend do become a city , so we like to think he win in the end , and on a wave of public sympathy , Vivienne be indeed vote the Westminster dog of the year . my great friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) and I have the privilege of accept the award on David ' s behalf , with Vivienne in tow . I be delighted to tell the House that I be very honoured to have be ask to become a patron of the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation , a duty I have proudly take up this week , partly in David ' s memory . I will attempt to match his legacy in campaign for animal welfare , and I be deeply indebted to the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation for give I that opportunity . secondly , David always have a strong interest in the national health service . he serve for many year as a senior member of the Health Committee of this House . I declare an interest at this stage , as I be proud to say that my wife Olivia work as a senior neuroradiographer in the NHS and have do for many year . I be very proud of what she and all the other staff of the national health service achieve for we day in and day out . I have the privilege of go on a ride - out with the East of England ambulance service a few week ago . I be accompany by a senior paramedic name Emily , who show I the ambulance service in action . we be in an emergency response vehicle , and I be immensely impressed not just by her professionalism , but by her empathy with the people with whom she come into contact — an absolute professional . I be pleased to report that , while the East of England ambulance service have be through a turbulent time — it be in special measure for a while — it come out of special measure under the leadership of its previous chief executive , Tom Abell . whereas before there be often a dozen ambulance in the car park early on a Thursday evening , when we go to Southend hospital as part of my ride - out , there be only three . however , there be an issue at Southend because the A & E unit be , shall we say , not very well design . there be a very narrow entrance to it , such that if there be a trolley in the corridor , it be very difficult to get people in and out . so I be pleased to report that the hospital trust have secure £ 8 million of capital to completely rebuild a & E with a proper , purpose - design entrance that ambulance can back into and discharge their patient from more quickly . the first phase of that will , I hope , open prior to Christmas , and it will also be possible to expand capacity in A & E and to treat more patient more quickly . that be something David and his successor , Anna Firth , campaign for very hard , and he would be pleased to know that . I campaign some year ago to expand primary care in my constituency . I help to get an expansion of Audley Mills surgery in Rayleigh , and I have be involve in campaign to expand two other : the Riverside medical centre in Hullbridge and the Jones Family practice in Hockley . as it happen , Tom Abell have now take over as the chief executive of the new Mid and South Essex integrate care board , and I have a meeting with he about these surgery only a week or so ago . I be pleased to report to the House that it be a very positive meeting , and I be therefore hopeful that we will be able to secure those expansion . I do say that I would tell the House about the 1983 general election , but I be not sure whether what I be about to reveal have previously be in the public domain . for context , in 1979 Basildon be one of the large constituency in the country , so in the early 1980 the boundary review basically divide it in two along the A127 arterial road . David never like the term " safe seat " , because he feel it imply that one take one ' s constituent for grant , which he palpably never do . however , the pundit say that a safe Tory seat have be create around Billericay to the north of the a127 and a safe labour seat have be create in Basildon new town , so at the time it be regard as a one - all draw . but a Tory sacrificial lamb still have to come along and fight this seat , so along come David Amess . he have fight a Newham seat at the 1979 general election in his late 20 , and at age 31 he become the conservative candidate for Basildon . the campaign do not get off to an auspicious start . in those day , electoral law require that prospective candidate should have a formal meeting at which they would be legally adopt by their party . David ' s local association have hire the Northlands community centre in Pitsea to have the meeting . unfortunately , there have be a miscommunication , and when they arrive the place be padlock up . there be no mobile phone in those day , so a colleague be immediately dispatch to a nearby telephone box to try to get the council caretaker to come and open the community centre . these effort prove unsuccessful . by now it be approach dusk , so he be adopt as the parliamentary candidate while stand under a lamp post in the community centre car park — and thus he go into battle . David be David , he fight a feisty campaign . there be lot of music and balloon , and it be all very high profile . however , as he tell I when we have supper a few year ago , he think that he be go to lose but that he would go down fighting . so in the run - up to the count , he write a defiant speech , say that although he have be defeat , Margaret Thatcher would surely win the election and carry the torch forward . he arrive at the election count arm with this speech , steel himself for what be to come . as hon . member will know , at an election count there be a moment before the result be read out when the return officer call the candidate and agent together to go through the result with they first , and to make sure there be no irregularity and no one want a recount . the call go out for candidate and agent , and David walk across . there be a small huddle around the return officer , who turn to David and say , " we ' ve complete the count , and there be a clear winner . well do , Mr Amess — you ' ve win . " David look at he and say , " what ? " and the chap say , " you ' ve win . you ' ve be elect . you ' re the Member of Parliament for Basildon . I ' m go to read it out in five minute ' time . I hope you ' ve get your speech ready . " David look at the return officer in awe , and say , " could you just give I one moment ? " he dash into the gent , rip off some loo paper and jot down some bullet point , because obviously the speech he have prepare be no long appropriate , and he go out on to the stage . for the record , he win by 1 , 379 vote . the result be read out and he observe all the courtesy , and he thank the return officer and other officer for conduct an efficient count , he thank the police for maintain order , and then he say , " I never doubt for one moment that I would win this seat . I always know that by fight an active and lively campaign , I would be elect to represent the people of Basildon in the House of Commons . " and so it be sheer chutzpah literally from the first moment . those of we who know he know that he carry on like that for the rest of his career , and that be why the House love he . David always have great concern for all colleague on all side of the House , so if he be here now he would be think of those about to make their maiden speech , and he would say something like , " Don ' t worry , don ' t be nervous , you ' ll be absolutely fine . " and of course you will . after all , you work very hard to get here — even if you be not adopt under a lamp post . so lady and gentleman , it be wonderful to have this debate in his name , and I thank the House and the Chair for the great honour of be allow to open it . to all those who be about to make their first speech in Parliament , I say , " I wish you all the very good of luck — but not too much . " David Amess be my mentor , as he be for many colleague , and he help I become a good constituency MP . he also spend time with we , especially colleague who feel threatened or unsafe ; he give we his time for nothing . we all miss he . I call Daniel Francis to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate . it be an honour to follow the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , have serve with his brother on my local council 20 year ago . I wish to add to his tribute to Sir David Amess and Jo Cox . I would like to start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir David Evennett , who represent our local area for 33 year , first in the former Erith and Crayford constituency and then in Bexleyheath and Crayford . he take a keen interest in education , serve twice as a parliamentary private Secretary in the Education Department . he be elect with the other Sir David in 1983 and they be close friend , and it be apt that this debate be name after Sir David Amess . Sir David Evennett be the only Conservative Member of Parliament to lose their seat in 1997 and then regain it at the second attempt in 2005 , which say a great deal about his tenacity , and I wish he and Marilyn a happy and healthy retirement . I note that when Sir David Evennett make his maiden speech in 1983 , he follow and compliment the then Member for Sedgefield , who of course go on to be a great Prime Minister for 10 year , so I say to the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford , please feel no pressure in the year ahead . at this election , my constituency of Bexleyheath and Crayford gain part of the Northumberland Heath and West Heath ward that be previously represent by my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) . give the new boundary , it be a privilege to follow former member who have represent part of my constituency , include Jennie Adamson , Norman Dodds , Jim Wellbeloved , Sir Ted Heath , John Austin , Nigel Beard and Teresa Pearce . it be an honour to have be elect to this House and I be indebted to those constituent who have send I here , and I shall work tirelessly for they as well as for those who do not vote for I . I have live in the London borough of Bexley all of my life , attend local school and serve as a councillor for 20 year . my constituent include former school friend , former work colleague , my parent , who be here today , and my grandmother . my constituency be locate at the south - east tip of London , with my constituent look both west into the capital and east across the Kent boundary . my family root be like those of many of my constituent : family from south London who move a bit far east , with my maternal root in Southwark and my paternal root in Plumstead . we in the constituency be proud of two amazing heritage asset : the grade 1 list Hall Place , build in 1537 ; and the Red House , design by Philip Webb and William Morris in 1859 . we be also proud of our contribution to the hit of my childhood , have be the birthplace of Boy George and Kate Bush . we have an industrial past , with the Thames at the north of the constituency , but today most job be in manufacturing , retail and hospitality . however , that past help change history and ensure that Britain be the country it be today . the Vickers work be locate in Crayford for 101 year , from 1884 , and during the world war they manufacture the Vickers machine gun , aircraft , naval gun lay equipment , and the casing for the Barnes Wallis bounce bomb of Dambusters fame . famously , it be where the british aviator John Alcock and Arthur Brown manufacture the first Vickers Vimy bomber , with the first 12 manufacture in Crayford , while it be the thirteenth , manufacture elsewhere , which in 1919 make the first non - stop transatlantic flight . that history of our constituency continue today with my constituent across Barnehurst , Bexleyheath , Crayford , Northumberland Heath , Slade Green , and the small part of Abbey Wood , Belvedere , Erith and well that I represent , work hard and deliver for our country . every day I speak to local resident who work in the public sector , and I know how grateful their neighbour be for the work they do and on which we all rely . my constituent rely on train service provide by Thameslink and Southeastern , which have a depot in Slade Green where they maintain roll stock and train staff . it be those railway worker who keep my constituent on the move . those commuter work in the financial and professional job that London rely on , but also , importantly , in shop , restaurant and hotel , keep London ' s economy move . and if we take a quick glance around any road in my constituency , we see a variety of white van and black taxi , demonstrate that my constituent be the worker that London rely on to get they from a to b , and the builder , plumber , brickie and lift engineer who will help we grow our economy . but there be one set of worker on which our community really do rely : our volunteer and carer . today , my day start as many other ' will have do : I lift my child from her bed ; I change her nappy , dress she , feed she and tidy her hair ; and then I ensure that she be in her wheelchair and ready for her transport to collect she for school . our child be twin but will lead very different path in life . one talk of a future in work and the journey she will make ; the other , after many year of work from professional , can now manage to talk , but her language be limit to about a dozen word . the eld of our twin have cerebral palsy and a range of complex disability . like other carer , the great concern that my wife and I have be what will happen to she when we be go . many of we know what it be like to have to work and educate our child at home for month during the covid pandemic . in our case , this be stretch by the fact that one of our child require full - time care , our family network and carer be not allow into our home , and my wife be undergo chemotherapy at the time — she be now thankfully recover , due to the fantastic work of our incredible NHS . I can assure Members that in my time in this House I will be the great of champion for carer and the disabled , because I really do know the challenge that family in our position face on a daily basis : have to fight the local authority because either it have not transfer the money to pay the carer , or it be not pay at a rate that meet minimum wage requirement ; the constant battle to ensure that our child have a wheelchair that work ; the argument over which part of the public sector will fund the person require to cut our child ' s food at lunchtime because the education , health and care plan be not clear on the matter . I could take the easy path and sit at home rather than be here take difficult decision to fix the inheritance bequeath to this Government , but I believe that this House really do need people like I , who know how badly reform be need in the special educational need system and for the right of carer . my constituent , like I , rely on volunteer and charity across the constituency . I be not go to name they , because I be bind to miss one out , but those charity know that I have the great admiration for they , have work alongside they for many year . they make such an important contribution across Bexleyheath and Crayford , and I look forward to continue to work with they , our faith group , business and my incredible constituent to deliver the change that our community and our country so desperately need . that speech be very powerful indeed . I call Bob Blackman . I congratulate the new hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) on his maiden speech . it be clear that he will contribute to the work of this House in an incredible fashion . may I also pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for open this debate ? I thank the Leader of the House for respond to my request at business question last week to properly entitle this debate the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate . I persuade Sir David to join the Backbench Business Committee purely by undertake that we would always ensure a pre - recess Adjournment debate , to which he could contribute . his self - interest be clear even then . it be fitting that this be the first Sir David Amess Adjournment debate since the release of the Grenfell inquiry report , because Sir David be my immediate predecessor as chairman of the all - party parliamentary fire safety and rescue group . the inquiry ' s report be incredibly comprehensive and make for terrible reading . I strongly suggest that all member read at least the executive summary — the full report be of a daunting size . it be clear that government of all persuasion badly let down people in this country and , in particular , the people of Grenfell . the all - party group try relentlessly to bring forward urgent change to building safety , but they be refuse . Jason Beer KC , represent the Department at the inquiry , even apologise on behalf of the Government for not listen properly to what the all - party group be say . Sir David say , " if Government have listen to we , Grenfell would not have occur . " I be glad he have be vindicate on that , but I be very sad that he be not here to hear that . deadly fire do not just happen ; they be the result of a series of failure over a number of year on a number of level . there be a number of alarming similarity between Grenfell and the King ' s Cross fire , which claim 31 life back in 1987 , although Sir Martin mention it only once in his report . I remember it vividly ; I be a commuter to central London at the time . just as Sir Martin ' s report have do , Sir Desmond Fennell ' s report on the King ' s Cross fire identify key failing over several year across many public body that could have prevent the fire from spread out of control . the similarity do not end there ; they include inadequate fire training , the use of unsafe material and the failing of the London Fire Brigade . it be alarm how similar the two fire be , despite be deal with by totally different department . Sir Martin talk about improve the cross - government response . I wonder what would have happen if the lesson learn about unsafe building material at King ' s Cross be implement across all Departments . I welcome the Government ' s promise to respond to the recommendation within six month , but we need to get the ball roll on the legislative change that Sir Martin recommend soon rather than later . it will take a long time to get the legislation right , to get it through Committee in both Houses and on to the statute book , and then to find the solution to the problem of the regulatory gap as a matter of priority . we can not wait six month for a White Paper . I urge the Government to consider at least that key point urgently . let we get the legislation lay before this House as soon as possible . that lead I on to the scandal of the remedial work require to fix building up and down the country that be still coat in dangerous cladding . the recommendation from King ' s Cross to replace wooden escalator take until 2014 to be complete . surely the cladding replacement can not take 27 year as well , but the start have not be great . there be another question about this work : who will pay for it ? I be adamant that it should not be leaseholder and tenant . they be the one group who have do nothing wrong , and I hope that the Government will address that point . on Monday , I be pleased to be elect unopposed — that be a mode of election that I welcome — as Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee . it have terrific honorificabilitudinity . that lead I neatly to my tribute to my predecessor in the role . Ian Mearns serve as Chairman for nine year , and as the Member of Parliament for Gateshead for 14 year . I be sure that the new hon . member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) will be as dedicate a servant to the people of that community , and I hope that my chairmanship will live up to Ian ' s legacy . my other role be chairman of the 1922 committee . you will remember the role well , Madam Deputy Speaker , have be vice - chairman . for the benefit of Members who be wonder when the Prime Minister will face a new opponent at lunchtime on wednesday , let I say that we have conclude the second ballot of mps ; further ballot will occur after the party conference , and there will be a new leader in November . I thank the officer on the ' 22 — a somewhat small team than in previous year — namely my hon . friend the Member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , who have be elect to the august role of Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee , and my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , for be so efficient in help I with the ballot over the past couple of week . move on to transport , this be the first opportunity I have have to talk about the new part of my constituency that come in after the boundary change . I be sure that PARLYapp will be pleased to hear that I will not give a history of Queensbury from 1249 to 2024 , but there be two interesting titbit on the history of Queensbury station . the branch from Wembley Park to Stanmore begin life as part of the Metropolitan railway , in the final fling of the Met as a private venture . Government Members should perhaps note that all four of the tube station in my constituency result from private investment and initiative , not Government diktat . when Queensbury station be build around 90 year ago , there be no development in the area , and the company could not decide what to call it . the local authority adjacent to the area be Kingsbury , so naturally it be name Queensbury . that lead I on to a bittersweet point about Queensbury station . while it be nice to gain Queensbury , it be yet another tube station in my constituency without step - free access . those who follow these debate closely will know that I have raise the issue of Stanmore station before . it be in dire need of a lift , as it have about 3 million passenger entry and exit a year . I continue to bang the drum and to point out to the Mayor of London , Transport for London and the Department for Transport that Stanmore be not step - free . in fact , it force disabled user to wheel themselves through a car park and up a steep ramp on the other side . even one of our great Paralympians can not do it unaided . it be completely inadequate as a step - free entrance , and a public lift be badly need , so that the 48 step that people be " mean " to use while enter or exit the station can be circumvent . I be disappointed that my plea seem consistently to fall upon deaf ear , but here be a warning : I will continue to campaign until we get a lift at Stanmore station and the other station in my constituency . we be all conscious in this House of the escalate situation in the middle east . there be a clear and present danger that if terrorist remain in Gaza , there will be no long - term resolution to the conflict ; indeed , Hezbollah , Iran and the extremist force in the middle east could be drag into a full - scale war with Israel , which none of we want . I be therefore concerned about several u - turn by the Government , which I want correct . many of we who be friend of Israel be alarm by the message that be send by the Government ' s suspend 30 arm licence . it give the impression that , in the Government ' s eye , Israel and Hamas be the same , but let we be clear : they be not , and the Government should not treat they as such . I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on UK - Israel , and as we come to the one - year anniversary of the 7 October attack , which be the large loss of jewish life since the holocaust , Israel need the UK ' s support , not censure . on 25 June , Labour say that if elect , it would proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , as many of we have call on the Conservative Government to do for a number of year . on 8 July , the Guardian report that this Government would not proscribe the irgc as a terrorist group , which be a complete u - turn . I be concerned that anything but proscription be simply a cop - out , particularly give that Israel - Iran tension be escalate . there need to be government action on defence spending . we have commitment from the previous Government to raise defence spending , first to 2 . 5 % of gdp and then to 3 % . we now seem to have a road map from the Government towards spend 2 . 5 % . give the challenge that our defence industry face , we need to take appropriate action . my Supported Housing ( Regulatory Oversight ) Act 2023 from the last Parliament mandate the Government to establish a support housing advisory panel within 12 month of the Act be pass . the sift date be list as 31 July , but nothing have be hear since . as of 30 August , that be overdue , and technically that put the Secretary of State in breach of the law . I urge she to get the job under way and to ensure that we set up the panel . I be conscious that other colleague want to contribute , so I will mention only one or two other thing . on the potential free trade deal with India , the last Government promise it by Diwali — they forget which year — but both side decide to put negotiation on hold because of election here and , of course , in India . those election be now over , and the government have settle into place , so let we get on with the job of get the free trade agreement that everyone want . at business question , I mention the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , which I wholeheartedly support in the last Parliament . Javed Khan ' s review on achieve a smoke - free 2030 ought to be implement in full . I hope that the Government will take on board the various cross - party amendment propose to the Bill , so that we can get over any objection from the industry and progress that legislation swiftly . I be delighted that the Government have take forward the plan for a Holocaust memorial and learn centre in Victoria garden . I strongly support that . I also chair the all - party group on Holocaust memorial . we recently hear from Holocaust survivor Eve , who reiterate our plea to get the memorial build before the survivor unfortunately pass away . we be see huge increase in antisemitism ; that be clearly a scandal . there have not be a Government statement on Bangladesh . the Government in Bangladesh have be displace and there be a human right catastrophe , particularly for the Hindu population , yet we have hear nothing from the Government . I hope that we will hear what the Government will do to safeguard bangladeshi citizen . finally , on a local issue , I turn to Edgware Towers . there be a proposal in the neighbouring constituency to build 29 block of high - density multi - storey flat , the tall of which would be 29 storey ; 20 would be above 20 storey high . that be in a cramped area . most important be the proposal to build a bus garage for 100 electric bus under a 29 - storey tower block . give the fire that have take place on electric bus , the consequence be unthinkable . the London Fire Brigade have object , and this proposal should be rule out of order straightaway at planning application . I thank all colleague in the House , those in the other place , the staff on our team , the security team , the catering team and everyone else who play a key part in keep everything afloat . I also wish everyone celebrate it a very happy Rosh Hashanah . as ever , I end by pay tribute to my great friend and colleague . we all miss you , David . I hope that everyone have a good recess , enjoy their party conference and find some time to relax with friend and family . rise — we have 30 member wish to contribute , so if everybody ' s speech be around five or six minute , everybody will get in . for her maiden speech , I call Olivia Bailey . I thank the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for a wonderful tribute to Sir David Amess , and for his kind word to those of we sit nervously on these Benches today . I be proud to be the first Member of Parliament for the new constituency of Reading West and Mid Berkshire . the most populous part of my constituency be the village of Tilehurst , where I live with my family . Tilehurst have always be a place of skilled labour . our name reflect our history in the manufacture of tile , but today we be proud to be a place of brewer , beautician and builder . in this place , I will always stand up for small business and the self - employ . my constituency also have a proud history of defend our great country . there be many military family , and we be also home to the Atomic Weapons Establishment at Aldermaston and Burghfield . I be really proud of the work that my constituent do there , and I will always support our nuclear deterrent . we be an unusual constituency in that we be make up exclusively of village and hamlet , discount our official overlap with reading . there be more than 70 settlement , most nestle in the north Wessex down national landscape . the river , field and architecture around Pangbourne and Basildon be say to be the inspiration for E . h . shepard ' s beautiful illustration of " the Wind in the willow " . my constituency be truly the quintessential english countryside . perhaps the most picturesque leaflet round of any constituency be have stroll through Streatley , Yattendon , Compton , East and West Ilsley , Mortimer and Frilsham , although eyebrow be raise when I ask one of my activist to take a trip to the hamlet call World ' s end . thankfully , they be meet with beauty rather than eternal doom . I thank the many activist who work so hard to see I elect to this place , and I thank everyone who place their trust in I at the ballot box ; many vote Labour for the first time . I will work tirelessly to live up to that trust and to fight for everyone in my constituency , no matter how they vote . I know that my predecessor seek to do the same , and I also want to thank they for their service . the majority of my constituency be previously represent by Sir Alok Sharma . he be a good constituency MP , hold in high regard by many locally . he be also a tireless campaigner in the battle against climate change , most notably as President of COP26 . I wish he all the good in the other place . I must also mention the last Labour MP for Reading West , Martin Salter . Martin serve for over a decade and give I one of my first taste of politic as I undertake my work experience in his office . he remain a force within the constituency — as I be sure hon . member can imagine — as a passionate campaigner for the protection of our waterway , and in particular our fragile and precious chalk stream . my constituency also contain area previously represent by Laura Farris and John Redwood . I put on record my thank to they both for their commitment and public service . while the rural village of Berkshire may not be traditional labour territory , I think that my constituency share the value of this new Government . we be a place of service to our country , to our land and to each other . we be a place where people work hard , enrich our economy , our community and our family , and we be a place of opportunity , where our young people can get a great start . in this place , I be determined to do everything in my power to embody that service and support our community to prosper . my political passion be spark in the corridor of my school , where Government policy in section 28 tell I that I should be ashamed of who I be . but my commitment to public service come from my parent . my dad , a police officer know as " Red Roy " because of his belief in build relationship with the community , not simply assert power , first take I out deliver leaflet for the Labour party . my mum , an english teacher who would always fight the corner of even the most badly behave pupil , instill in I the determination capture in her favourite book : " you never really understand a person until you consider thing from their point of view " . I have spend my career try to honour their contribution . I have develop policy solution to improve our public service , reconnect the police with their community and tackle discrimination . I have seek to put the public at the heart of our politic through my work conduct public opinion research . but the political be ultimately personal . it be political progress that enable my wife and I to marry and to build our own family . my political flame , spark at school , burn now for my two boy and for all young people still in our care system . it burn most fiercely as I hold the hand of my mum , be take from I by Alzheimer ' s while be let down by the state . I be very proud to find myself here today , and my two boy be very proud as well . the problem be that , have spend the election tell their teacher to vote labour , they be now tell all their friend that I be some sort of supreme leader — [ Laughter . ] that may be funny , but I be at pain to remind they that the opposite be true : I be a servant , and in the year I have in this place I hope to continue the hard work and dedication of the many man and woman who , little by little , have fight for change . Beautifully say . I congratulate the hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) and for read West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) . it be daunt to undertake a maiden speech , but both of they do so with panache and with passion , and my hon . friend and I be grateful to they for share their insight with we on this very , I hope , non - partisan occasion . both hon . member rightly speak about the aspect of their constituency in which they take pride , and that give I a cue to put in a brief word for the Waterside Arts Festival , which have be go on this week . sadly , I have have to miss most of it , be up here in Westminster , but last Saturday , on a very rainy day , I be privileged to see a few of the offering of this cultural feast , which be support by Culture in Common and Arts Council England . one be a remarkable pair of acrobatic dance artist , Olivia Quayle and Jan Patzke , who operate under the title of Joli Vyann . one artist use the body of the other as a sort of climbing frame , ultimately end up stand unsupported on one foot on the head of the other artist . that be not something I have ever see even on television , let alone live , and it be quite impressive to see it on a rainy Saturday afternoon in Hythe , in Hampshire . another theme be cartoonist , and there be a remarkable , fascinating talk by Clive Goddard about not only technique but the effort involve in a cartoonist ensure that his or her precarious life as a freelancer somehow make economic sense . next year will mark the 80th anniversary of the end of the second world war , so anyone old enough to have fight in that terrible conflict must now be at , or very close to , their 100th birthday . on suitable occasion , I have previously refer to friend among the wartime and early post - war veteran who be now no long with we . they have include world war two Mosquito pilot Doug Gregory DFC , who fly a replica world war one biplane fighter at air display until the age of 90 , and who die in 2015 at the age of 92 ; Fleet Air Arm telegraphist air gunner Norman " Dickie " Richardson DSM , who fly from HMS Victorious in the far east , and who die in 2020 aged 96 ; and my late father - in - law , malayan emergency supply drop navigator Frank Souness DFC , who die at the end of 2022 aged 92 . it be not surprising , but still sad , that this year have see the passing of the last of my second world war friend , all of whom live in New Forest East . there be Marion Loveland , who reach the magnificent age of 102 and who be a lady of grace , poise and elegance . she be bear on 6 June 1921 and be a Wren third officer at HMS Collingwood on her birthday in 1944 as D - day begin . her move and dignified television interview , record early this year shortly before her pass , and tell how her fianc é , a decorate Royal Marines commando , be kill land on Sword beach on 6 June — D - day and her birthday — be still available to view on the ITVX website , and I commend it to right hon . and hon . member . then there be the wonderful Liz Gregory , the widow of Doug , whom I mention early . she help he build his replica SE5a world war one biplane fighter in their back garden — as one do — and unfailingly support he in all his fly adventure and escapade . this great lady live to the age of 95 , and member can read all about she in Doug Gregory ' s fascinating autobiography , " Aeroaddict " , publish by Little Knoll Press — if I be not forbid from brandish prop in this presentation , I would wave it around at this point — [ Laughter . ] finally , just last month , we lose Dr Arthur Page at the age of 100 . he be a comrade of Dickie Richardson in 849 Squadron , Fleet Air Arm , on HMS Victorious . Arthur also fly in the famous Palembang raid against the oil refinery in Sumatra and on many other dangerous mission in the far east . both the Times and the Daily Telegraph publish remarkable obituary of this fine and gallant officer , who quietly resume his interrupted medical study after the war and serve as a gp in Totton , in my constituency , for more than 30 year . he too continue to fly — until the age of 75 — and member can read about his and Dickie ' s adventure in " Palembang and Beyond " , a book write by the late Mike Roussel . again , I be not allow to brandish it in the Chamber , but it be an eminently worthwhile read . although all those outstanding individual have now go , the example they set will long continue to inspire those who know they and generation yet to come . in the time remain , I shall return to a continue constitutional issue , which I previously raise in the debate on the King ' s Speech . with the election of Select Committee Chairs have just take place , we must hope that the Prime Minister , after consult the Leader of the Opposition , will soon present to the House nomination for membership of Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament . the matter be press , not just because the Committee be about to complete a key inquiry when the election be call , but because of the fact that , while there be no Committee , its dedicated expert staff be leave vulnerable to the tender mercy of some of those whom it oversee . that be of serious concern . for the benefit of new mp , I should explain that the ISC be a cross - party Committee of both Houses of Parliament create by statute . under the Justice and Security Act 2013 , the ISC have the legal responsibility for oversee the UK ' s intelligence community on behalf of Parliament and its member . after confirmation in both Houses , its member choose their own chairman from among their nine member . right hon . and hon . member may be surprised to learn that the ISC ' s office — with a very small number of staff — belong to the Cabinet Office , despite the ISC oversee several sensitive organisation within the Cabinet Office . they would be right to be surprised , because that be indeed a fundamental conflict of interest . that be why , at the time of the Justice and Security Act , the Cabinet Office be suppose to be only the temporary home of the ISC ' s office . yet here we be , more than 10 year later , with the Committee ' s staff still beholden to , vulnerable within , and unfairly pressured and even victimise by the very part of the Executive the Committee be charge with oversee . the Executive should not be able to constrain and control the Committee ' s democratic oversight on behalf of Parliament by exert control over the Committee ' s small staff team to prevent they do their job independently . such control mean that part of the Cabinet Office can and do starve the team of resource , so that the ISC ' s staff be unable to fulfil the Committee ' s legal responsibility . that be in complete contravention and disregard of a clear ministerial undertaking give by the then Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) , before the election . it also mean that they can stigmatise and penalise the ISC ' s staff , with damaging consequence for their career in the civil service . the outgoing member of the ISC value the Committee ' s staff very highly indeed , and we find such treatment to be unacceptable . in the last Parliament , the Committee therefore formally resolve , by a unanimous vote across all three political party on the ISC , that it be essential for parliamentary democracy and its scrutiny system that the Committee ' s office must move out from under the control of the Executive — that is , the Cabinet Office — and should be establish instead as an independent " body corporate " with a link to Parliament rather than to the Executive . that unanimous decision be confirm by the member of the Committee at its meeting on 19 March 2024 , follow expert and authoritative external advice that it be indeed within the ISC ' s power to take such a step and to determine the suitable mechanism for implement it . this constitutional change , essential to protect the separation of power , be easy to achieve . it require a very short amendment to the Justice and Security Act to change the status of the ISC ' s office . the amendment would establish an independent office to support the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament to safeguard the independence of the Committee itself . it have be hope that the amendment would be include in the new legislative programme . unfortunately , but unsurprisingly in the Committee ' s absence , the Cabinet Office have hitherto manage to block it . however , this be to underestimate the previous member of the Committee , from both side of the House and in both Chambers , who be convince that the Committee ' s office can not and must not continue to be control by the Cabinet Office . there be already , in the legislative programme , an obvious vehicle for achieve the necessary change : the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill be design to change the status of those two organisation . it be therefore the obvious place to include a short amendment to the Justice and Security Act to change the status of the Committee ' s organisation , too . as a measure to secure democratic oversight , I be confident that it should and would secure cross - party support in both Houses . prior to the election , both the then Government and the then Opposition seem to accept that this reform be need , which do rather beg the question why it have not happen yet . I trust , in conclusion , that the Government will ensure that this change be not be block somewhere by force unknown , and will ensure that it be now take forward , together with the emergency uplift in resource that be approve by the then Deputy Prime Minister before the general election but which have be disregard by the Cabinet Office since . this be urgently require if the new Committee be to have sufficient efficient staff to be able to meet and function fully when it be reconstitute . the Government should recognise that this can not wait . too much valuable time have be lose already . I call Satvir Kaur to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to start by congratulate hon . friend and other hon . member on some fantastic maiden speech today , but also on the many I have hear since the election in July . they have make I proud to be british . however , notwithstanding those incredible speech and hear about the amazing and beautiful place across the UK , I would still argue that Southampton , the place where I be bear and breed , where I have always live and which I have the honour to represent as the Member of Parliament for Southampton Test , be the good city on earth . listen , I know it be a bold claim and many will have hear I make it before , but Southampton be where the world meet Britain . we have help shape the world and we continue to do so , from the pilgrim who set sail from Southampton on the Mayflower over 400 year ago in search of a new life in America , to be the home of the Spitfire , which help to defeat fascism in Europe during world war two . it be the University of Southampton that invent the internet as we know it today . and be those achievement not enough , Southampton also give the world the fish - finger sandwich — you ' re welcome . we be a city rich with culture , from our medieval wall that protect our nation in time of conflict to our award - win park , most notably Southampton common , which be the green lung of our city , and our renowned art gallery and our theatre , the Mayflower . Southampton be where Jane Austen be school and live , and it inspire some of her masterpiece . even today , Southampton continue to produce great talent , from the singer Craig David to " MasterChef " winner Shelina Permalloo . Southampton be also a world - lead maritime city that be integral to the UK economy . the port of Southampton handle over £ 71 billion - worth of trade every year , while also serve as the busy cruise port in Europe . we be a city of political first . many will know that our country ' s first Prime Minister of colour be from Southampton . I be the first female Sikh council leader in the UK . and the former MP for Southampton Test , my good friend Dr Alan Whitehead , be the first , and I believe the only politician , to have a song dedicate to they by none other than Led Zeppelin — clearly , they have a " whole lotta love " for Alan . now , pay tribute to Alan Whitehead as my predecessor in this Chamber be an honour . he have be one of those unique politician who be universally like , value , and respect on both side of the House . his knowledge on climate change and green energy be unparalleled . he be essentially the Taylor Swift of the energy sector . [ laughter . ] I ' m pleased you get it . he leave behind a legacy , not only of shape Government policy on energy right now but of benefit future generation , for which we all owe he a huge debt of gratitude . as I approach my 40th birthday in the come day — [ hon . member : " surely not ! " ] I know ! it be incredible to think that Alan have serve our city for as long as I have be alive , first as leader of the council and then as a Member of Parliament . he have do so with unwavere dedication , integrity and kindness , mean that he will be sorely miss by many . I be acutely aware that I have very big shoe to fill . Alan , and the former Member of Parliament for Southampton Itchen , John Denham , have both be instrumental in help I to reach this place today . indeed , John , on a visit to my school fair , award I first prize , when I be only eight year old , for my fancy dress costume . I do not know what it be about I dress up as a clown that make John think that I might one day be destine for a career in politic . the truth be that I owe so much to my incredible city and the remarkable people of Southampton who give I the opportunity to be where I be today . Southampton have make I who I be . as someone who grow up in one of Southampton ' s most deprived community , I see at first hand the importance of community and service to other . Southampton have a unique ability to come together when it be need most . I have be inspire time and time again by the many example set by our faith organisation , local business and incredible local charity , from Love Southampton , a faith - base initiative , to business such as the Saints Pub on the Millbrook estate , and charity like Yellow Door , no Limits and Saints Foundation . all work tirelessly to make Southampton a well place , and remind we that when we lift our poor and most vulnerable in society , that lift everyone . our city ' s diversity have make I realise that we be the great place we be because of it — historic , but modern , dynamic , creative , and so much more . I may stand here as our constituency ' s first female MP and MP of colour , but I know that there be many more before I who have pave the way . I feel that responsibility here as well , and feel their weight on my shoulder . as a graduate of Southampton ' s two world - class university — the University of Southampton , and then Solent University — I know that they put our city on the map , and that both be institution that inspire , innovate and push boundary . they have help I , and our city , to be more forward - think and outward - look . as a Saints fan , I must confess that support our team be a bit of an emotional rollercoaster , which have teach I , above anything else , enormous resilience . we be thankfully back in the premier league , but whether we be win or lose , together as one city we march on . I be incredibly proud of Southampton and everything it represent , but like any major city , we know that we face challenge . one in every three child live below the poverty line , and a person ' s life expectancy can drop by 10 year simply by their be the wrong side of a bridge . public service be on their knee , and many family I represent be struggle . that be why I want to be part of the renewal that this Labour Government be promise , and want to rebuild the service on which my community rely — from a decent home become a basic human right to people feel safe in our street and neighbourhood again ; from have access to healthcare when it be need to protect our environment and river . another key priority of mine be to ensure that we create opportunity for all , and include the exclude . we know that child from poor area or ethnic minority background , or those with disability , be not less talented ; they be simply give few opportunity . Britain ' s talent be spread evenly across our community and our country . if we be to realise our potential , we must ensure that those opportunity be spread more evenly too . these challenge will not be easy to resolve , but the people of Southampton , like so many across Britain , be rightfully proud and ambitious for themselves , their family and their country . that be why we need a Government who be equally ambitious , and commit to unlock the potential and opportunity of place like Southampton . I know that , as a city , we stand ready to seize this moment to thrive and grow — and the drive , passion , compassion , togetherness and determination of the people of Southampton will see it through . let I end by say directly to they : I will be forever grateful to you for make this daughter of a market stall trader , who grow up in our inner city on free school meal , your Member of Parliament . you be the very good of I , and I be a product of every opportunity that you have give I . I shall never take that trust for grant , and I will spend every day , in here and beyond , champion our great city , fight for it , and help we to reach our enormous potential . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate . it be poignant that it be call the Sir David Amess debate . I know Sir David well , and the last time I see he be on the day before he die . I be in Qatar with he , in a country that he love and for which he advocate for many year during his career . when I arrive , he be leave . I say , " you be leave , and I be just arrive . " he say , " it ' s nothing personal ; I have my surgery tomorrow , and I can ' t miss it . " he be someone who embody his constituency , and put his constituency and his constituent first . that be something that be share by all of we , on both side of the House , and we remember he particularly today . as the new Member for Southend West and Leigh , I have to say that on the doorstep in the constituency everyone know Sir David Amess — or they think they know Sir David Amess — and that be the sign of a fantastic constituency MP . although we may be different politically , Sir David be an amazing constituency MP . in his name , we be now a city , and that will continue to be recognise through the City Day be introduce by the city council . I join the hon . member in recognise Sir David and his dedication to his constituent . I know that the hon . Gentleman be a new member , and I think that intervention show the measure of the man that he will be in this House over the next four year . judge by a debate in which he participate yesterday , I know that he will be a vocal advocate for his constituency , and that he will make Sir David very proud . it be a genuine honour to follow the maiden speech of the hon . member for Southampton Test ( Satvir Kaur ) . I declare an interest , because I know the hon . Lady very well indeed . we be both on Southampton City Council , as councillor and in lead position , and we both graduate from Southampton University . the hon . member for Bridgend ( Chris Elmore ) , the Whip on duty who will respond at the end of the debate — I be sure it be come — should probably close his folder now and leave this out of his note , but I be actually the good man at the hon . Lady ' s wedding . and on my phone I have video evidence of how good she be at dancing , of how bad her husband Ben be at dancing , and of how good a partyer she be at 2 o ' clock in the morning . I often call the hon . Lady " Mrs Southampton " , because that be what she be . we both care about Southampton genuinely and passionately . she be a groundbreaking council leader ; she care about her city and she care about her constituent ; and she will be a groundbreaking Member of Parliament . I will just remind she that I secure more vote in Southampton Test than she do when I stand in 2017 — but I do lose by 12 , 500 , so she do a lot well than I . as be customary , I wish to raise a few issue on behalf of my constituent . I promise that I will not take too long , because I know that other member want to make their maiden speech , and today be a day for they — particularly the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , my constituency neighbour , and my hon . friend the Member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) . I be watch he because he be in my flock in the Opposition Whips Office and I will be mark his homework later , and I know that he have two very special people wait in the Gallery who probably want a cup of tea , so I will keep my speech short . I have always speak in these debate because I think it important to be able to raise issue on behalf of my constituent — very quickly but also , I hope , very thoroughly . the first issue be one on which I have be campaign for five year in the House : the Access for all funding that the last Government award to a number of station — include two in my constituency , Hedge End and Swanwick — and the vital importance of ensure that our train station be accessible to people who be less able - bodied than we be , and to people with child , particularly those with pushchair . follow that five - year campaign and two Adjournment debate , we finally receive the award , but under the present Government I have be tell in a letter that the feasibility study funding be under review . that be a disappointment to I and to my constituent , live in an area where there be excessive development build by the leadership of my local council . as the area grow , it be difficult for my constituent to travel to and from work use Hedge end station ; they have to get off the train at Southampton Airport Parkway , 9 mile away . I really hope that the hon . member for Bridgend will speak to the Department for Transport to ensure that member on both side of the House whose local station have be award Access for all funding be give urgent clarification of whether they will receive it , because many people in our constituency will rely on it . I be disappointed that the Government have choose to place this under review . Hedge end will not require a massive amount of money . I do not want to hear about a £ 22 billion black hole ; this be not enough money to make a difference to in - year spending . that be the last party - political point that I shall make , but the issue be important in my constituency and many other throughout the United Kingdom . the next issue be broadband and mobile phone signal . a lot of new development have be build in Whiteley , in my new constituency of Hamble Valley . it have the infrastructure of a number of old , chocolate - box village that I inherit from the old constituency of Winchester . many young professional have buy home along the Curbridge corridor and down into Burridge , and , in this world of work from home , they want to be able to conduct their business and their work life at home . a number of they receive fine because they can not pay their bill , and a number be get into trouble because they can not turn up to work . I be very interested in hear from the Government on the investment — maybe not necessarily today , but I hope they can allocate some time to debate the really important issue of digital desert across the United Kingdom , which be vital . my new constituency be more rural than my old one , and I have pick up this issue across the whole of the constituency since I become its Member of Parliament on 5 July . I want to raise an issue that the Government will hear about from I in a number of debate over the next five year : we need a walk - in centre in Whiteley in my constituency . we have the fantastic Fareham community hospital , which have a great diagnostic team . it open its door to the local community and take some of the pressure off the primary care service that we have in other area of the constituency , but we need to have more service at the hospital . it be a fantastic site and , with its excellent leadership and staff , have the capability to provide more primary care and more acute care . I hope that the Government will look at allocate funding for walk - in centre at Fareham community hospital and in Whiteley shopping centre . lastly , people who be watch we from the Gallery or on television — I suspect there be not many — do not see the hard work of the staff of this House . I particularly thank my office staff — they be pay by I , so they should expect to do all the hard work — and the House staff , who be really important . they include the Clerks and the Doorkeepers , who make sure that I get to meeting from time to time and that I know where I be go . New Members will find they particularly useful . I also thank all the catering staff and the people who make our life here easy . I wish they a wonderful break as we go to argue thing out at our party conference . I hope they get a rest . may I wish all member from across the whole House , who represent a vast array of different party , a wonderful recess ? go and have a good argument at various seaside location across the United Kingdom . I must put on record my thank to the staff in the Tea Room , particularly Margaret , Godfrey and Gemma ; otherwise , they will not make I a good cup of tea . I call Sally Jameson to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to deliver my maiden speech in the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate , and to follow some truly inspirational maiden speech by member from across the House , and the speech by the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) . it be the honour of my life to be elect to represent Doncaster Central — my home , the place where I be bear , and a place I care deeply about . Doncaster ' s industrial history be one of transformation and innovation , shape we into the town , and now city , that we be today . during the industrial revolution we become renowned for railway manufacturing . we build iconic train like the Mallard and the Flying Scotsman , which be still a source of great pride . we also have a long and deep mining history , which have significantly shape our local economy , community and heritage . only the other week , I be at the Markham Main Miners Memorial Gardens in Armthorpe for the annual commemoration of the miner who die in the mine . the garden remind we all of the miner ' sacrifice , but also of the community that they help to build , which be still weave into the spirit of Doncaster today . we also have much to celebrate . this week , young chef from the DN1 Delicatessen and Dining Room be at the World Skills Culinary Arts final in France . we have exciting and innovative company , like Clean Power Hydrogen and Agemaspark , and a young generation ready to shape our future , like Millie and Emily from Hall Cross sixth form , who do their work experience on my campaign . from our racecourse , where the St Leger festival take place this weekend — that be a quick plug — to our beautiful Mansion House and our sensational market , we may be a new city , but we have a long and rich history , which make I proud to say that I be from Doncaster . while we have much to be proud of , I must also recognise that Doncaster have face a number of challenge over the past 14 year , with cut to local government and a number of broken promise . but there be opportunity to grasp . the Labour Government ' s commitment to make Britain a clean energy superpower will not only bring down the soar bill that people in Doncaster face , but bring great energy security and the opportunity for a new , green industrial future with great British Energy . as a Labour and Co - operative MP , I be particularly proud that , as part of that mission , we will deliver a local power plan that will have the community at its heart in order to empower people and the place where they live . I be sure that we in Doncaster will seize on this new industrial strategy to forge our future and build our city ' s legacy . I be also determined to work alongside our fantastic council leadership , Mayor Ros Jones and Deputy Mayor Glyn Jones , the brilliant Doncaster Chamber , and my parliamentary colleague across the city as we work to get our airport reopen and ensure that it thrive , and to get the health service and hospital that we so desperately need and deserve . I could not let this speech pass without pay tribute to my incredible predecessor , Baroness Winterton of Doncaster . Baroness Winterton be a formidable politician , an incredible woman and a dear friend . she serve as a Government Minister across a number of Departments , as a long - serve Opposition Chief Whip and , of course , latterly as Deputy Speaker of this House . Doncaster be a well place for have have Baroness Winterton as our MP for 27 year , and while I know that I will never be able to live up to her legendary shoe collection , I hope that I be able to continue her legacy of service to the people of Doncaster Central and to this House . it be a great source of personal pride for I to be one of only two prison officer elect to Parliament , and to be one of the only POA branch chair . today I want to acknowledge my former colleague in his Majesty ' s Prison Service across the country , who be do an incredibly difficult job in increasingly difficult circumstance . for too long , the work of prison staff have go unnoticed and without reference to the outside world , and I be determined to change this with my election to this House and my appointment as a parliamentary private Secretary in the Ministry of Justice . I want to pay tribute to the prison in my area , start with HMP Doncaster in my own constituency . I pay tribute to HMP Lindholme , and to HMP and YOI Hatfield , in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme . finally — I be save the good till last — I pay tribute to the staff at HMP and YOI Moorland , where it have be a privilege to serve for over six year with some of the brave and most dedicated people I have ever meet . they take on workplace challenge that most could not bear to think of . no matter what danger you be in , they be by your side . in moment of peril , you know that you do not need to look behind your shoulder to see what be there , because your colleague have always get your back . to work in a place that be fraught with so many danger and so many difficulty , and still to feel safe , be a testament to the people with whom you work . today I pay tribute to the prison staff at HMP and YOI Moorland for their commitment to our service and for their friendship , which will stay with I throughout my time in this House and , indeed , for the rest of my life . the criminal justice and prison system have highlight to I the many thing that we still need to do to ensure that child get the good start , and one area that need urgent work be the child ' s care system . sadly , there be a disproportionate number of care - experienced people in our criminal justice system , and they make up around a quarter of the overall prison population . this show the urgent need to address the fact that we be fail so many of the most vulnerable child , leave they target for predator and criminal gang . we be fail to give they the start in life that we would expect for our own family and friend . in this area , along with so many other area , include economic growth and restore our service in Doncaster and across the country , change must come . I will ensure that I use every day during my time in this House to speak up and be a part of the change that the new Government will bring , to serve my constituent in Doncaster Central and to bring the prosperity , public service and progress that we deserve . I call Freddie van Mierlo to make his maiden speech . that be very well pronounce , Madam Deputy Speaker . I echo the comment about Sir David Amess . I be also grateful to the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for alert I to the Westminster dog competition . my two Shiba Inus look on at this debate will be very excited about that . I congratulate the hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) on her maiden speech . her passion for her constituency be clear . I be look forward to visit HMP Huntercombe in my constituency and pay tribute to the prison staff there . I thank my predecessor , John Howell , who represent the constituency for 16 year before step down . I be sure that the whole House will join I in wish he well as he recover from a stroke . among his achievement be his commitment to the Council of Europe ; he lead the UK delegation for many year . it be sad to see conservative leadership hopeful now call for the UK to step back from the Council of Europe by leave the European Court of Human Rights . that would put we alongside Belarus , Russia and the Vatican as the only non - member european nation . it be an honour to be the new MP for Henley and Thame , which be a new constituency make up largely of the former Henley seat that be last Liberal in 1910 . in the intervene period , the constituency have play host to well - know member of the House , include , most famously , Michael Heseltine and the former Prime Minister , Boris Johnson . although they be well - know name , I be very much look forward to make my own distinct contribution to this House . I can only hope to emulate my relative , Hans van Mierlo , the founder of the dutch liberal party D66 , who exit government more respected and popular than when he enter — a rarity in modern politic . I will not comment on which of my predecessor achieve that feat and which do not . Thame be one of the two main town of the constituency , alongside Henley - on - Thames . as well as host two stunning , chocolate - box market town , the constituency be characterise by the Chilterns national landscape and its iconic escarpment , and be bisect by a section of the historic Ridgeway national trail . Henley and Thame be also host to a significant portion of the Oxford green belt , and be criss - cross by an abundance of well - care - for village and hamlet , such as the wonderful Waterstock and Waterperry in the north of the constituency , and the aptly name Christmas Common , which have supply and decorate Christmas tree for No . 10 for many year . Watlington be the constituency ' s lesser - know third town , but be nevertheless know locally for its vibrant high street and welcome community . it be also the town that I have have the sincere pleasure of represent as a county and district councillor since 2021 and 2023 respectively . the Rivers Thames and Thame and their chalk stream tributary define not only much of the physical landscape of the constituency , but the community that live there . Henley be , of course , home to the annual royal regatta , which fill resident with pride . this year , there be much to be proud of as we welcome our olympic and Paralympic hero back to Oxfordshire . in recent year , however , the river have be fill with something altogether more sinister . rower treat the water as a toxic substance , meticulously clean hand and covering mouth while they row , but that be still not enough to stop the steady flow of report of serious illness follow encounter with the waste - fill water . the shameful sewage crisis cut deep in Henley and Thame , with Henley - on - Thames town council recently declare no confidence in Thames Water in a precedent - set vote . I join the council in declare no confidence in Thames Water in this Chamber , and call for proper root and branch reform . I be honour to represent RAF Benson and its resident , and I pay tribute to the man and woman of the armed force who serve this country so ably . the constituency have a considerable and proud military history that date back to the battle of Chalgrove field in 1643 . exactly 300 year later , construction start on Chalgrove airfield , from which reconnaissance mission be fly in preparation for the invasion of occupy Europe . later , US army pathfinder set off from Chalgrove , drop into Holland as our ally force seek to liberate my father ' s home town of Arnhem in Operation Market Garden . that same airfield now host the world ' s lead manufacturer and tester of ejector seat and fighter aircraft . sadly , the airfield be sell off to Homes England under the Conservatives and force into an unpopular local plan as a site allocate for a new town . I will continue to support resident in their fight to keep Chalgrove a village and to protect its heritage in defence . I close with a few word of thank to my wonderful wife , who have put up with so much from I as I set about reverse 114 year of conservative rule in Henley and Thame . I feel extremely privileged to stand in this Chamber , but whatever the future hold , I will have no great privilege than be married to my wife . have commit that sentiment to the public record , I trust I have now correct my failure to mention she in my 6 am acceptance speech . I be not sure that be the get - out clause the hon . Gentleman be hope for . I call Phil Brickell to make his maiden speech . it be a privilege to serve my constituent as the first Labour Member of Parliament for Bolton West in almost a decade , and to speak in this debate under your chairship , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to speak in the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate . I extend my thank to the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for open the debate and for his very kind word . as a new MP , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Chris Green , who always try his good for the people of Bolton West . it be a great honour to be elect alongside my hon . friend the Members for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) , and for Bolton South and Walkden ( Yasmin Qureshi ) . it be the first time in nine year that Bolton have elect three Labour Members of Parliament . I look forward to work with they to realise my ambition for a healthy , more prosperous constituency . over the year , Bolton West have have a long tradition of pioneer Labour Members of Parliament . Baroness Ann Taylor serve Bolton West from 1974 to 1983 . in her maiden speech , she note the vital role that Government can play in address regional inequality , and she highlight the need for civic pride in our town — both theme that , 50 year later , continue to resonate with my constituent . Ann still serve in the other place . I be proud to call she a friend . she be a true inspiration and I pay tribute to she for her lifetime of public service . more recently , Ruth Kelly be first elect to represent Bolton West in 1997 , before go on to serve in the Cabinet . most recently , Julie Hilling serve as the MP from 2010 to 2015 . I be the first male Labour Member of Parliament for my constituency since the 1970 and , rest assure , I have big boot to fill . may I now enlighten the House about my background ? surprisingly , I be the first brickell in this place , and I be proud to be Bolton bear and breed . my parent serve our country for many year . my father be a soldier in the Royal Artillery , station in Germany , Northern Ireland , Canada and Cyprus , before go on to work as a paramedic in Bolton and then as a carer on the minimum wage ; and my mother work in the woman ' s health department at the Royal Bolton hospital for more than 30 year . indeed , my first job be at the Bolton hospital , before I go on to spend more than a decade tackle serious financial crime — bribery , corruption , money laundering and the facilitation of tax evasion . let we not forget that four out of 10 victim of crime be victim of fraud , often online . the importance of public service be instill in I from a young age by my parent , which be why I find myself want to stand for election to this place . I pay tribute to my family and my wife for their tireless support of my campaign to become a Member of Parliament and my ongoing work on behalf of my constituent . Bolton West be a misleading name for a constituency that be make up of town with distinct local identity . there be the former mining town of Westhoughton , the historic locomotive town of Horwich , Blackrod , and the western fringe of Bolton . straddle the M61 between Rivington Pike and Leigh , the town of Bolton West have a rich history . indeed , last week mark the 126th anniversary of the Winter Hill mass trespass , when working people walk up together from Bolton to the West Pennine moor in search of open countryside , fresh air and a right to roam . to this day , there remain work to be do to open up our countryside for all to enjoy in a responsible manner , and I will work throughout this Parliament to secure that goal . I know that Mr Speaker and I have a share interest in follow the up and down of Bolton Wanderers football club , who play their match at the Toughsheet community stadium and provide vital support in the community for my constituent . Horwich have a long history of manufacturing , and more recently , the service economy , which be centre around the Middlebrook retail and business park . it be home to scan computer , a pioneering firm that remain family - own to this day and that continue to invest in local talent across the borough . elsewhere , MBDA , one of the UK ' s large defence firm , manufacture at the Logistics North site in my constituency . Cohens Chemist , which provide invaluable gp and pharmacy service , be headquarter in Lostock . finally and importantly , the plastic recycling firm Toughsheet focus on repurpose waste product for use in the building industry . there be fantastic organisation and charity work day in , day out to support my constituent . Bolton mountain rescue team , base in Ladybridge Hall , be make up of tireless volunteer who be call out every week to save life . pioneer charity such as the Hub in Westhoughton and Blackrod sport and community centre go above and beyond to ensure that local people have opportunity to thrive . turn back to politic , the recent general election campaign speak to many of my constituent ' concern : the state of the local NHS ; the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete find in our local hospital and school ; the 8 am scramble each morning to obtain a gp appointment ; spiral housing cost ; the need for well , well - pay job in the local area ; well integrate transport that be both reliable and affordable ; and effective policing that prevent individual from fall into a life of crime , tackle repeat offend and ensure that local people feel safe in their neighbourhood . I will work as hard as I can to secure the improve public service my constituent urgently deserve . I also want to draw attention to what will be a key focus during my time here — standard in public life . we must always strive to be well if we be to retain public trust . we all know that politic have the potential to change life immeasurably for the well , yet all too often , the public feel let down , and there be a perception that vested interest sometimes subsume those of constituent in need of support , but it do not have to be like this . that be why I be proud to see the Prime Minister stress the importance of public service . as we look ahead to the remainder of this Parliament , let we never forget why we be here and who we serve . let we embrace the politic of unity , which recognise that we can achieve lasting progress for our constituent by work together across party divide . let we turn our back on the dog - whistle politic that sow division . the truth be that politics be far more difficult , more nuanced and , yes , more fractious than many of we might like to admit . I end by draw an analogy between this place and my favourite pastime . in my spare time , I be an avid white water kayaker , navigate our river from source to sea . the sport have take I to far - fling destination such as the Nepalese Himalayas , the White Nile in Uganda as it flow north out of Lake Victoria , and the upper reach of the Alps . white water kayaking be an assumed - risk sport , and it be a team endeavour . there be many obstacle to navigate on the way downstream , blind corner that might belie a tree block the entire river , vicious recirculating feature that can trap a kayaker whole , and huge hidden waterfall can appear suddenly . that be before we get to the effluence be discharge into our waterway . the parallel to politic be strike , even for those uninitiate in the dark art of navigate white water . grow up , I have a poster on my wall quote the chinese philosopher Confucius . it read : " one ' s great glory be not in never fall , but in rise every time one fall . " that be an apt quote for politic , and one that we would all do well to bear in mind over the come week and month . together we have the power to make a lasting impact that will benefit our constituent . that be the privilege of be elect to this place , and it be one on which I intend to deliver during the come year on behalf of the people of Bolton West . I call David Reed to make his maiden speech . I congratulate all hon . member who have deliver their maiden speech . they have all speak about their constituency with wit , passion and enthusiasm , and I have no doubt that they will be strong representative for their constituent . it be a real privilege to deliver my maiden speech during the Sir David Amess general debate . Sir David be a stalwart Member of this House and be barbarically murder in the line of parliamentary duty . as I stand here in this most historic of Chambers , I look over to Sir David ' s memorial plaque behind the Government Benches and , as I start life as a Member of Parliament , I hope I can be a strong voice and a man of action for my constituent , as Sir David be for his . I start with a heartfelt thank you to the people of Exmouth and Exeter East , for they be the reason I be here . they have put their trust in I to represent they as the first Member of Parliament for our new constituency . it be a responsibility that will always weigh heavily on my shoulder . I also say thank you to my family and campaign team , who have be bastion of love and support through the long journey to this place . for the record , I want it to be know that get marry during the early stage of a general election campaign make for an interesting start . thank you to my wife for be a constant voice of reason and my rock throughout . although Exmouth and Exeter East be a new constituency , it be create by amalgamate area from three previous constituency , of which East Devon be by far the large contributor . refer to all my predecessor , as be custom in a maiden speech , may , therefore , mark I to the Speaker ' s Office as someone who do not abide by time limit . I say this because all three of my predecessor have make significant contribution to local and national life . Simon Jupp , the former Member for East Devon , work hard for his constituent and campaign relentlessly as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the great south - west . he help to secure investment into the region and always champion our part of the world . I consider Simon to be a friend , and his contribution to this House will be miss , as will his encyclopaedic knowledge of local Devon cider . Exmouth and Exeter East also incorporate one ward each from the Exeter and Central Devon constituency . the new hon . member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) no doubt give the right hon . Sir Ben Bradshaw the respect he deserve in his maiden speech . however , I would like to pay my own tribute to Sir Ben , and I know that his judgment and leadership will be miss by the Labour party . lastly , I have be bless to inherit the beautiful Exe valley from my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , who continue to serve and lead in this House . his loss be my gain , but I will ensure that I diligently represent the good people of the Exe valley as he have for the last 14 year . for those who have not have the good fortune to visit Exmouth and Exeter East , please allow I to indulge in a Cook ' s tour of my new constituency , and to give member a flavour of the geography , the history , the settlement , the people and the organisation that make my part of the world so irresistibly enchanting . start at the mouth of the River Exe , go out to the heathland of Woodbury Common and finish in the countryside above the city of Exeter , the constituency of Exmouth and Exeter East have it all : beautiful beach ; serene , open and arable landscape ; the eastern part of a thriving city ; vibrant town ; and picturesque village . many part of my new constituency have be inhabit for several millennia , with area such as Topsham be settle by the celt , turn into a port by the Romans and expand by the Saxons . possibly our most famous resident have be Sir Walter Raleigh , who be an Elizabethan statesman , soldier , writer and explorer . although he achieve much in his life , I will do my good not to meet the same fate , which be to be try for treason before meet his end outside this Chamber in Old Palace Yard . we have some fantastic organisation across Exmouth and Exeter East , such as the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , which work tirelessly to keep local and tourist safe in the water around the constituency . we have global expert work to advance the frontier of knowledge on weather and climate at the Met Office ' s headquarters . we have Clinton Devon Estates , which be ably responsible for the stewardship of much of the land in the southern area of the constituency . as an example , the Clinton Devon Estates team , work with the Environment Agency , recently demonstrate to the world how to proactively regenerate land by complete the low Otter restoration project . as be to be expect , we be fortunate to have some of the good farming produce anywhere in the country . for those look to visit , I highly recommend stop in for a pasty at Darts farm or Greendale farm shop . however , the organisation that have the most special place in my heart be Commando Training Centre Royal Marines . for decade , the training camp in Lympstone and the area of Woodbury Common have be the proving ground for all wannabe Royal Marines , and for those from across our armed force who aspire to become commando . have endure Royal Marine commando train over 16 year ago , I be happy to announce that I have learn , once again , to enjoy spend time on Woodbury Common , without fear of be cold , wet , hungry and cover in gorse thistle . the Royal Marines be a proud organisation , in its 360th year in service to our country . sadly it have become increasingly rare for a former Royal Marine to enter this House as a Member . however , Royal Marines must share the same tendency that bus be afflict by : none turn up for eon , then four turn up at the same time . although the other three former Royal Marines , the hon . and gallant Members for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) , for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) and for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , opt to join the party now in government , I know that the kinship that bind Royal Marines together through share adversity will benefit this House , and , I hope , provide combative but constructive debate . while Exmouth and Exeter East have much to be celebrate , it also have its fair share of issue . from an aged and degraded sewerage network to antisocial behaviour , there be many issue that my constituent have place trust in I to help improve . for too long we have build new house in the area without deliver appropriate and corresponding infrastructure . I fear the new Government ' s top - down housing target will far compound that issue , and I will do all I can to ensure that the right mix of house be build , in the right place , with the right infrastructure and public consultation . I be also deeply concerned that large part of Exmouth and Exeter East will be tarmacke over within one generation . of course we need new home for the next generation , so that they can live near their friend , family and work , but we must have a temper approach and ensure that we do not overdevelop and destroy our countryside , and the culture of our historic town and village . there be also area that I will work hard to improve across Exmouth and Exeter East , such as social care provision , post - 16 education scheme , job opportunity , transport link , and support for farmer and those in rural affair . it be worth voice that this new Parliament bring the wind of political change to Devon and the wide south - west of England . as a new MP , I be open and willing to work with fellow south - west mp , regardless of political affinity , to ensure we drive as much investment and opportunity as possible to our part of the world , in a join - up way . in an increasingly connected world , I believe our mps must have a firm understanding of the national and international issue that affect we , and most importantly how these issue affect our constituency . for much of my adult life , I have fight hard in several organisation to keep our United Kingdom safe and prosperous , both in the physical and the digital environment . we be on the precipice of a new industrial revolution . frontier technology , such as artificial intelligence , supercomputing and nanobiotechnology , will radically change our world and the relationship we have with it . it be imperative that the new Government understand these issue and work across the public and private sector to ensure that our United Kingdom remain a technological global leader . there be no get away from the fact that the international system be become more volatile . it be deeply sad that conversation about international conflict be no long hypothetical . War have break out across multiple global region , and we must act without delay to increase defence spending to meet the threat that be clearly present . anthropogenic climate change have long cease to be purely an academic debate — it be visible and happen now . we must continue to work closely with international partner to reduce our overall global carbon emission . it be beyond a faux pas to speak in communist tone from the conservative Benches — I could risk make the same treasonous mistake as Sir Walter Raleigh . however , there be modern resonance in Lenin ' s purport quote : " there be decade where nothing happen ; and there be week where decade happen . " in isolation , any of the point I have raise have the ability to cause mass societal and environmental change . when decade happen in week become the new normal , we must keep pace to ensure the United Kingdom remain strong , ally and ahead of the pack in an ever - change world . my final message be to the people of Exmouth and Exeter East who send I to this House . I promise that I will always fight for we , and that I will represent we to the good of my ability , while I have the privilege of serve as their Member of Parliament . I call Jonathan davy to make his maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) on his maiden speech . it be a joy to hear a little about his constituency . I will begin by thank my predecessor as Member of Parliament for Mid Derbyshire , Pauline Latham , for all she do to serve its resident . Pauline represent the constituency from its creation in 2010 until she stand down at the end of the last Parliament . prior to 2010 , the community that make up the constituency be part of other constituency , serve by many illustrious former member , perhaps most notably George Brown . Pauline champion many important cause in this place , include international development . she also lead the charge to increase the marriage age from 16 to 18 , a lasting change that reduce the risk of young people be subject to coercion or abuse . I send Pauline my every good wish for her next chapter , and I look forward to work with she on area of share concern . a small but important part of my constituency be serve by the former Member for Derbyshire Dales , Sarah Dines . I thank she for her service and I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) will give a more extensive tribute to she in his maiden speech . one of the most exciting priority of this new mission - lead Government be their commitment to harness the power of nature to deliver clean power and , in turn , to deliver energy security , new job and cheap bill . there be a history , stretch back over 250 year , of use nature to power the economy in the Derwent valley , which run through Mid Derbyshire . the world ' s first water - power mill be build on its river bank to spin cotton , make the valley the birthplace of the industrial revolution . among its early pioneer be Jedediah Strutt , a hosi and cotton spinner from Belper . through an entrepreneurial approach , Strutt progress from humble beginning to become one of the lead industrialist of his age . along with Sir Richard Arkwright and Samuel Need , he be a father of the modern factory system , which be adopt around the world . although the Derwent valley no long hum to the clatter of looms or the rhythm of the people who operate they , it continue to harness nature to sustainably power home and business through the hydroelectric scheme it support today . however , despite the valley be the east midland ' only UNESCO world heritage site , and home to some of the country ' s most beautiful landscape and extensive biodiversity , some of the valley ' s iconic industrial building face an uncertain future , due to their poor state of repair and lack of occupation . we must save these building . they have incredible potential , include to support local economy , increase job opportunity and alleviate the housing crisis . they be also vital to tell Derbyshire ' s story , and the story of our country . celebrate and preserve the past be not frivolous or sentimental nostalgia . it be vital to our sense of place and our perception of who we be today , what we share with other and what make we distinctive . know where we have come from also shape where we venture next ; that be as true of building , countryside and historic site as it be of our politic . it be also true of our art and culture . the creative industry be among Britain ' s most important export . they be a huge part of our economy and boost our standing around the world . they be a vital catalyst to express and explore idea and bring community together . they have be common to every culture since primordial time . music , the visual art , dance and drama provide an opportunity to walk in somebody else ' s shoe . they build a more inquire society and help we to understand who we be and what it might be like to have somebody else ' s experience . they be also a vital educational tool , but in far too many case they be not a staple in school or something that people have an adequate opportunity to engage with throughout their life . I look forward to make the case , throughout my time in this place , that this be an underused opportunity for our country . as we face the huge challenge ahead and return the country to economic stability and renewal , opportunity must be our watchword : opportunity to help people get ahead in life through good job , for example in the small and medium - sized business that proliferate in my constituency or at place like SmartParc in Spondon , where food production be be reimagine ; opportunity to benefit from exceptional education and training , such as be be offer at Rolls - Royce and at the University of Derby in my constituency ; opportunity to enjoy good health and community safety through renew public service ; and opportunity to live in a greener world through the new Government ' s commitment to the environment and to tackle climate change . be give the opportunity to serve the people of Mid Derbyshire be the privilege of my life , and I thank everyone who support I along the way . I thank the voter of Mid Derbyshire : whether they vote for I or not , I be here to serve they . I also thank my many friend and family , who have be a great source of strength on the journey . I be determined to do the people of Mid Derbyshire proud , and to support the new Government to deliver the change that my constituent tell I they need and that they rightly deserve . it be a real privilege to contribute to my first Sir David Amess Adjournment debate . I do not have the privilege of know he , but may I acknowledge and pay tribute to his colleague for keep his memory very much alive ? we have have some brilliant maiden speech this afternoon , and I know that there be more to come . I congratulate the hon . member for Mid Derbyshire ( Jonathan Davies ) on his confident speech ; my hon . friend the Member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) , whom I welcome to the liberal Democrat Benches ; and the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) and for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) , who deliver confident and assure speech . I also want to acknowledge the very moving and raw contribution from the hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) and the very personal speech by the hon . member for Reading West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) . I wish the hon . member for Southampton Test ( Satvir Kaur ) an early happy birthday . her pride in her city shine through , as do that of the hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) . I echo the tribute that the hon . Member pay to Baroness Winterton , who be in the Chair when I give my maiden speech . over the summer recess , I spend a lot of time in the small community in my constituency , include Knotty Green , Winchmore Hill , Chenies , Coleshill , Seer Green and Jordans . there be some common theme that I would like to raise before the House adjourn . as member might imagine , some of the issue be particularly local to the area . in Coleshill , there be real frustration at the continue lack of broadband in the village . in Coleshill and Winchmore Hill , I be tell about the lack of reliable bus service . recent bus timetable change have make it hard for pupil to get back to school this term . a solution be find for the boy at a local boy ' school , but the same can not be say for the girl , who no long have a viable way to get to one of the local girl ' school on public transport from the village affect by the timetable change . I be mystify as to why boy and girl have be treat differently by the council . it will not surprise the House that in all the village that I go to , resident share their horror at the state of our river . many of they volunteer on the River Chess and the River Misbourne , which be rare chalk stream , and they can see the devastating impact of pollution and sewage . a number of young constituent come to share their concern for the environment and for make sure we all do our bit to save the planet . I pay tribute to one young constituent , Stella Jackson , for present her petition to I : she deserve particular praise for her effort in gather signature for the petition that she run in her village to encourage we all to reduce , refuse , recycle and reuse . while I be talk about our young people , I have to say that I be encourage to see that last week ' s Westminster Hall debate on service for special educational need and disability be so well attend ; indeed , I be unable to voice the experience of my constituent , because Westminster Hall be so full . there be a crisis in SEND provision . in our local area , Buckinghamshire council state that demand for SEND service have increase by 50 % in the past three year alone , and that this be unsustainable . the heartbreaking conversation that I have with family over the summer support that assessment . it be also hard to hear the story of people of all age who have be wait for healthcare appointment and treatment . we know the NHS be under great pressure . we know , too , that healthcare worker be work tirelessly in difficult circumstance . I hope that we can look back on today ' s Darzi report as the point at which the NHS start to turn a corner . I wish to finish by mention the pensioner from my constituency who come to see I this summer worried about the cut to the winter fuel allowance . the matter come up in every village that I visit . since the summer recess , almost 100 other constituent have write to I with similar concern . this government can not be hold accountable for the mess they inherit , but strip support from the poor pensioner just when energy bill be set to rise again can not be the answer . one constituent with Parkinson ' s tell I that cut back on their heating will almost certainly exacerbate their symptom . take away this vital support be , quite simply , the wrong thing to do . I call Dave Robertson to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I thank hon . member who have make their first speech today for set the bar so high ? I hope I can live up to the standard that they have set . I be send to this place by the constituent of Lichfield , a constituency that include not only the city itself , but the town of Burntwood and around 40 village and hamlet in the great county of Staffordshire . I be proud to serve the area that have be my home since before I know to call anywhere home , and where I hope it will be for many , many more year to come . my predecessor in this House be Sir Michael Fabricant . he be knight in 2023 for political and public service after more than 30 year represent first the constituency of Mid Staffordshire and then Lichfield in this House . thirty - two year in total Sir Michael serve , and I think that would be a number to which we would all aspire . should I be fortunate enough to still be in this place in 30 year ' time , Madam Deputy Speaker , I can only hope to have such a head of hair . it be , however , to longevity that I wish to turn now . although I have receive advice from some colleague not to mention the Domesday Book , I can neatly sidestep that as the record history of my constituency date back some 1 , 000 year before William the Conqueror to the roman invasion and the establishment of Letocetum , a roman fort and later settlement near the crossroad of Watling Street and Rykneld Street in my constituency . the crossing of those two road remain an important place throughout the Roman and Saxon period , and , in the 7th century , Chad of Mercia establish a cathedral and diocese in Lichfield , which still exist today . in just over a week ' s time , I will be proud to be in attendance at the installation of — I think — the 58th dean of Lichfield cathedral . the right Reverend Jan MacFarlane will be the first woman to hold that post and will not only smash a glass ceiling , but be an excellent advocate for the cathedral and the Church in the local community and beyond . the 7th century be also noteworthy for the burying of the Staffordshire hoard , which be uncover in Hammerwich in my constituency in 2009 , near that same crossroad of Watling Street and Rykneld Street . the large collection of Anglo - Saxon gold ever find , the hoard be already have , and will continue to have , a significant impact on our understanding of the people of these isle , before there be an England , a Scotland , a Wales or a Northern Ireland . let I move on from the 7th century . over the come year , the city would continue to flourish and establish itself as a religious and ecumenical centre , although much of the surround area maintain its rural and agrarian aspect for many century to come . in this time , the area do produce innumerable great life , and , while they be far too numerous to mention all of they here , I should note Gregory King , the world ' s first economic statistician ; Elias Ashmole , whose collection found the ashmolean museum , the first of its type in the UK ; David Garrick , the noted theatre innovator and manager ; the physician Erasmus Darwin , a found member of the Lunar Society who have a rather famous grandson ; the poet , Anna Seward ; Thomas Gisborne of Yoxall Lodge , an abolitionist and a close associate of William Wilberforce ; the painter John Louis Petit , who be have a wonderful renaissance in the understanding of his work ; Frederick Oakeley , who translate the word to " o come all Ye Faithful " in Lichfield cathedral ; and , of course , Samuel Johnson , a man of letter and the author of the first dictionary of the english language . Johnson ' s heir , Samuel Barber , be a freed slave who would go on to run a school in Burntwood , decade before Tom Jenkins would begin teach in Teviothead in Scotland , and who would also serve as a dozener in local government in Lichfield and almost certainly become the first black man to serve in local government in the UK . before I move on from some famous people from around the area , I should mention a local success story in Sophie Capewell . Lichfield ' s golden girl bring home not just a gold medal from Paris this year , but a world record as part of Team GBs fantastic effort . in do so , she end my reign as the most successful former pupil of my old school , Nether Stowe in Lichfield , and although I have hope to hold that title a little long than 32 day , I be happy to be disappoint on that point . return to my historical tour of Lichfield and its surround area , we reach the early and mid - 19th century , and the town of Burntwood , a conurbation of mining village , which grow up some four mile from Lichfield and have a similarly proud history . its most notable resident be the fundraiser and campaigner Stephen Sutton , who raise million for the Teenage Cancer Trust despite his diagnosis . we lose he far too soon , at the age of just 19 . he be make an mbe for his fundraising , so it be more than fitting that Burntwood town council remember he through a student award name in his honour . not to be outshone by the cathedral down the road , Burntwood also take its place in ecclesiastical history when , in 1883 , St Anne ' s church in Chasetown become the first in the country to have electric lighting . today , the people of Burntwood still maintain a close - knit community , typical of former mining area . that be show by the great example of the Spark caf é and Burntwood be a Friend , which have do so much to step in to replace service cut during 14 long year of Conservative Government . if we be discuss Burntwood , we can not forget the giant - kill exploit of Chasetown FC in the FA cup of 2007 - 08 . at some point , I will forgive the Members for Cardiff . Burntwood be not the only part of my constituency that have a mining history . the village of Handsacre also more than play its part in power the industry of the 19th and 20th century . it be also the village where my old man teach his first lesson as a probationary teacher in the 1970 . as for the suggestion that his Geordie accent be in part responsible for his hiring in a school build to teach the child of new arrival from the north - east , that remain suspect , if unconfirmed . mining be not the only industry that find its way to my part of Staffordshire . many of we will recognise the name Armitage Shanks , but few will know its link to the village of Armitage , just a short trip up Rugeley Road from Handsacre . as the new Government focus their legislative agenda on growth , I remind colleague that while many of we may have already spend a penny with Armitage Shanks , they be all welcome to visit and spend many more in the come year . all this industry mean that the canal come to my constituency . the Coventry canal and the Trent and Mersey canal be still navigable today , and the work of the Lichfield and Hatherton Canal Restoration Trust should be commend , as it aim to restore that link as a green and blue way over the come year . have touch again on transport , I will complete the circle and return to the crossroad that make Letocetum . watle Street , or the A5 , as it be now know , and Rykneld Street , the A38 , be major transport artery that link my constituency together , and link it easily to the rest of the country . the A38 in particular have help to establish a logistic centre in the village of Fradley on the site of the former RAF Lichfield . fan of the BBC ' s " Bargain Hunt " will know Fradley well , give the regular appearance of Richard Winterton and his auctioneer on that show . I hope that I can get as much airtime as they do . slightly far up the A38 be the National Memorial Arboretum near Alrewas — a wonderful venue , as the site of national remembrance . I advise every single person to make a visit there to remember , not just in November but on any day . I be sure that in the come month the Secretary of State for Transport will grow tired of my lobbying about the need for a railway station to serve that amazing location . on a dissimilar note , the first Travelodge in the UK be open slightly up the road some 39 year ago , near the village of Barton - under - Needwood , although that village should be much well remember as the home of the Holland tug of war team . found in 1970 , the team have represent England at numerous international tournament , and even bring home a silver medal from the 2010 world open championship . it be to this constituency that I will return during the recess . I look forward to speak to my constituent about transport , access to healthcare , education , health and care plan , and many other issue that be on their lip . I look forward to bring those story back to this place , so that I can continue to advocate on my constituent ' behalf . I call Edward Morello to make his maiden speech . I be extremely honoured to be give my maiden speech in a debate name after the late , great Sir David Amess . I be grateful for this opportunity . I thank all member who have give their maiden speech today . I enjoy the lot of they . it have be wonderful to learn about the many famous former resident of Lichfield , and I wish the hon . member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) the good of luck in add his name to that pantheon . special mention go to the hon . member for Southampton Test ( Satvir Kaur ) for provide the answer to the pub quiz question : what link Craig David and fishfinger sandwich ? we all know well now . I be the first non - Conservative MP for West Dorset in its 139 - year history — something I be extremely proud of . that notwithstanding , I will start by pay tribute to my conservative predecessor . Chris Loder ' s family have farm West Dorset for over 100 year , and he should be deservedly proud to have serve as its MP . we be both successor to Sir Oliver Letwin , an MP who be so well respect by the resident of West Dorset that they would stop I at every opportunity to tell I what a fantastic constituency MP he be . I can only hope to leave this House as fondly remember in the area as he be . although each of we have be proud to be the Member for West Dorset , we be not West Dorset ' s proud member . that honour go to the Cerne Abbas giant , a 55 - metre - high chalk fertility symbol whose presence stand proud over the Cerne valley for all to see . West Dorset be the good constituency in the country . I know that for a fact because the town of Bridport , Dorchester , Lyme Regis and Sherborne have , at various time over the past few year , be describe as the good town in Britain by no less an authority than the Dorset Echo , a newspaper that share my unrivalled objectivity when it come to the virtue of West Dorset . West Dorset be home to the world - famous Jurassic coast , a UNESCO world heritage site , where Mary Anning help to revolutionise our understanding of prehistoric life . she be long overlook by historian , but her contribution be now recognise with a beautiful statue in her home town of Lyme Regis . at the other end of Chesil beach be the Fleet lagoon , the UK ' s large saltwater lagoon , on which sit the Abbotsbury swannery , which be home to over 600 swan and be a fantastic day out , especially if you love swan . as well as the swan , one can also see , rather incongruously , a prototype of Barnes Wallis ' s bounce bomb . quite what the swan of Abbotsbury think about their home be use as a replica for the Ruhr dam be still unknown . sadly , our beach and river see over 45 , 000 hour of sewage release into they last year . the River Lim , which exit at Lyme Regis , be declare " ecologically dead " due to the level of pollution in it . it be shameful that I and my family , before we go swim at the nearby beach of West Bay , must log on to the Surfers Against Sewage app to check whether it be safe to swim . I commit during the campaign to use my seat in this House to pressure the Government to take serious action on the issue of sewage , and I promise to do so . West Dorset be hardy country . Thomas Hardy be renowne the world over for his poetry , and novel such as " far from the Madding Crowd " and " Tess of the d ' Urbervilles . " his work famously deal with theme of melancholy , sadness and moral conflict — emotion that I be sure be familiar to member vote in the Tory leadership contest . in his lifetime , he be also highly critical of the decline status afford to rural Britain . for even more than its beautiful town and coastline , West Dorset be a constituency define by its countryside — a landscape manage and maintain by our farmer and food producer , who be the beat heart of our rural economy . we desperately need a national food and farming strategy that will deliver sustainable living for our farmer . far from be cut , the farming budget must be significantly increase if conversation about food security be ever to be anything other than fine word . as an environmentalist , I be delighted that we now have a Government who seem to understand the importance of tackle the climate crisis and who recognise the vital part that renewable energy will play in achieve net zero . have spend a large part of my career in renewable energy , I will be urge the Government to go far and fast if we be to avoid the bad ravage of the climate emergency , which be already unfold . the Liberal Democrats will continue to champion the need for action in this House . on the subject of my party , I pay tribute to our party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) . I and many of my colleague owe our seat in no small part to his fantastic , if unorthodox , campaign . I must also pay tribute to another leader of the Liberal Democrats . my political journey begin in 2015 , with Nick Clegg ' s resignation speech . he say — I summarise here — that in the face of the politic of identity , nationalism and " we versus they " , it have never be more important to keep the flame of liberalism alive . it be true then and it be true now . I know then that it be not enough to stand on the sideline and watch the country that I love so much be eat by the self - interest of those who seek power only for power ' s sake or for self - enrichment . sadly , over the summer we see that there be those who would seek to use the misery of people who have come here seek refuge to further their own aim . I mention that because it will come as no surprise that the Morellos be not originally from this island . the Morellos of Italy become the Morellos of Spain — with apology to both country for my pronunciation — before come to Britain at the beginning of the 20th century . one of my forebear die fighting in world war one for the country that adopt he , and be bury in a Commonwealth war grave cemetery in northern France . my own father serve in the Royal Navy . even more than Morellos , my family be Mazierskis . my maternal grandfather come here from Poland at the end of the second world war , flee another type of political tyranny . he arrive as a child , speak no English . he become an engineer and set up a build company . his child become nurse , teacher , artist and architect . his grandchild be doctor , civil servant , lecturer and environmentalist , and one of they stand here today as a Member of Parliament . in my experience , immigrant do not forget the debt they owe the country that offer they a future . we must not let hate win . we must champion hope . that be why it be more important than ever to fly the flag for liberalism , liberal value and a rule - base international order . I would also like to mention my amazing wife . she be far , far cleverer than I and would make a far well politician . without she , I certainly would not be here today , not just because of the love and support she have show I , but because it be her suggestion that I run in the first place — something I find myself remind she of with increase frequency . finally , I thank the voter of West Dorset for put their faith in I . it be a huge honour to represent they , and I look forward to do everything I can to deliver a well deal for West Dorset . rise — Order . I think it would be a huge shame in the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate to put a time limit on speech . member can see how many be still stand , and I know that many would like to make their maiden speech before we disappear on recess . perhaps member could think about restrict themselves to seven or eight minute so that I can get everybody in this afternoon . I call Connor Rand to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden contribution in this debate . I pay tribute to the member on both side of the House who have make their maiden contribution , include the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , who give we an illuminate insight into what we could hope to see in his constituency . I also pay tribute to those who know Sir David Amess for their moving contribution . I be extremely proud to be the first Labour Member of Parliament for Altrincham and Sale West , in no small part because of the brilliant team of local volunteer who work on the campaign and the support of my wonderful friend and family . I also thank my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , who be bear in my constituency and be such a valuable friend to I during the campaign . at this early stage in my contribution , I want to pay tribute to my predecessor , Lord Brady , who represent the people of Altrincham and Sale West for 27 year . I thank he for his service to his constituent and for his kind word to I follow my election . I think one of my constituent sum it up well . while I be knock on door in Hale during the election campaign , a woman — and the whole House will be relieve to know that I will not attempt to impersonate she — say of Lord Brady , " the thing about Graham be that whether you agree or disagree with he , and frankly I usually disagree with he , he be always unfailingly affable . " I hope to one day be describe by my constituent in a similar fashion . of course , as the result of a rather interesting few year for the Conservative party , he might well come to be remember as one as the more consequential chair of the 1922 committee . I be sure the new chair , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , be hope for a slightly quieter few year . judge by the friendly and collegial way in which that party ' s leadership contest be shape up , I have every confidence that that will be the case . when I meet new member from all side of this House and tell they I be fortunate enough to represent a constituency as beautiful as Altrincham and Sale West , in many case I get a nagging sense from they that my mere presence in this House , represent where I do , be symptomatic not just of the level of change at the last general election , but of a Labour party that be able to appeal to every part of our country and every section of society . however , the reality be that my constituency be extraordinarily diverse in almost every regard . within easy reach of the city of Manchester , it be a place of business , thrive small and medium - sized enterprise and entrepreneurship — include the spectacular market in Altrincham — but Wythenshawe and Trafford general hospital be also major employer . it be an area with ten of church , four synagogue and the Altrincham and Hale Muslim Association , and it be where many from Hong Kong have choose to start a new life away from tyranny and repression . yes , it be a part of the world where many people be do well for themselves and for their family , but it also have an estimate 3 , 000 child grow up in poverty . what unite the constituency and make it such an extraordinary place be that it have such a strong sense of community , participation , and everyone pitch in to play their part . I have see that at Altrincham football club , a brilliant community club with amazing grassroots initiative , and which in 2019 become the first team in England to wear a shirt inspire by the rainbow flag to show their support in the fight against homophobia . I have see it from staff and volunteer at the Garrick Playhouse , who work tirelessly to put on a comprehensive series of play and production , and I have see it at Trafford South food bank , which work across the constituency to provide for people in need . it be able to do what it do thank to the remarkably generous donation of local people . however , all too often , organisation such as that food bank be have to go above and beyond in the most challenging of circumstance to stop people fall through the crack , because as a country we have fail to provide people with the security in work that they need ; we have fail to provide the economic stability and certainty that business need in order to invest ; and we have fail to address the long - term challenge our country face . that be why Labour be elect : to fix what have become break , and to offer hope and renewal . that be why the people of Altrincham and Sale West send I here : to cut waiting time across our national health service , include at Wythenshawe and Trafford general ; to clean up our badly polluted river and stream ; and to make sure people can feel safe on our street by tackle crime and antisocial behaviour . have work on a national campaign against the violence and abuse that shopworker receive , I know how important it be that we clamp down on crime against public - face worker , and I know that this Government will act . have change our party so that we could be give the extraordinary opportunity we have to change our country , that be the sort of tangible change to the life of people in Altrincham and Sale West that we must achieve . I be look forward to work to deliver that change in the year to come and show how , even in difficult time , Government can still be a force for good . that be the very least that the people of Altrincham and Sale West , and of our country , expect and deserve . it be an absolute pleasure to speak in this debate and to follow the hon . member for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) , who give a fantastic maiden speech . I join he in his kind word about his predecessor , who be indeed an incredibly affable man who serve my party , this House and this country with diligence while he be a Member of Parliament . I know he will continue to do so now that he be in the other place . it be also a pleasure to speak in the debate name after Sir David Amess . my only sadness be that the many new member will not have the benefit of his wit and wisdom , unlike those of we who first come to this place early — in my case in 2017 . I particularly welcome the new hon . member for Southampton Test ( Satvir Kaur ) . I get to know her predecessor , Alan Whitehead , incredibly well when he be my shadow in the last Parliament and we spend hour and hour take the Energy Bill through Committee . I completely agree that there be nothing he do not know about the energy brief — he be a giant in that field — and she do indeed have big shoe to fill . I can not quite agree with she when she make a comparison with Taylor Swift , so while she have a hard act to follow , I be sure she will " shake it off " in time . as my new hon . friend the Member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) say , there be indeed week in which decade happen . I can almost prove that point . the last time I address this House from the Back Benches be on 11 July 2022 , when I speak against my Government ' s introduction of the energy profit levy . by the time I return to address this House , I be on the Front Bench as a Minister , we have have two change of Prime Minister and one new monarch , and I have gain a daughter . that be by way of say to new member that thing happen fast here , so be prepare for that . yes , I speak about the introduction of the energy profit levy back in 2022 , and although my Front - Bench position preclude I from speak about that measure from the Back Benches , I take this opportunity to beg Ministers in charge of the new taxation and licensing policy in the North sea to remember that people in my community be very worried about their future in the oil and gas industry . as these change be make , Ministers should remember that local people — because of their livelihood — and indeed those in community in many part of this country , be watch and wait , and they be worried . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know you agree that West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine be the most beautiful constituency in the United Kingdom , despite have hear so many member say the same about their part of the world . People across the world see it in its full glory two year ago this week , when , after the death of her late Majesty the Queen at Balmoral in the constituency , my constituent and people across our region turn out in their thousand to line the road along Royal Deeside . I do not think anybody will forget the scene of the horse and tractor line up by the side of the road , and of local people pay tribute to one of their own , as she leave for the very last time . on that day , people around the world see what her late Majesty see and what her son , his Majesty the King , continue to see : the majesty , magnificence and unspoilt beauty of north - east Scotland . that be one of the reason why there be such concern and worry about the plan for new energy infrastructure across the countryside in the constituency that I be proud to represent . tourism be so important to my constituent , and indeed wide north - east Scotland , but the hospitality and hotel sector have struggle . visitor number be good , but the cost of do business have increase markedly over the last few year . energy price , high staff cost and the lack of workforce have all contribute to the difficult and challenging environment in which some of Scotland ' s good hotel and restaurant continue to operate . when we be in government , we take action to protect hospitality business . in last year ' s autumn statement , we extend the 75 % business rate relief for firm in the retail , hospitality and leisure sector . that mean that £ 230 million extra would be send to Scotland due to this policy area be devolve , but the Scottish Government do not pass that on to the hospitality industry in Scotland . hospitality venue in West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine , and indeed in the rest of Scotland , suffer because of the mismanagement of the scottish public finance and , sadly , because of the ignorance in the Scottish Government of how good to support that vital sector . I very much hope that the situation change , and that any support for hospitality in the come Budget will be pass on in full to the scottish business affect . hospitality bring I on to another sector of vital importance not just to West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine , but to the United Kingdom : whisky . on my regular visit to local distillery such as Fettercairn and Royal Lochnagar , I have experience at first hand the real quality produce by these world - recognise brand with world - class taste . Whisky be important not just to my constituency , but to the United Kingdom economy as a whole . it be our big food and drink export by a long way : 100 bottle of Scotch whisky be export on average every second from the United Kingdom , with gross value add of £ 7 . 1 billion per annum , and it alone directly support 66 , 000 job , so today I join the Scotch Whisky Association in call for this sector , which be iconic and economically so important , to be champion and listen to by those at the heart of Government . let we redouble our effort to reduce remain tariff worldwide , and let we protect whisky by ensure a fair advertising landscape . let we introduce a duty freeze in the forthcoming Budget , so that this world - lead scottish and british success story can grow still far . West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine , as well as be the most beautiful constituency , the energy powerhouse of the UK and the home of the fine whisky , be also the breadbasket of the country . from Cambus o ' may cheese to the Aberdeenshire highland beef farm near Banchory , and the farming of potato , cereal and malt barley across Laurencekirk and the Mearns , many of my constituent be directly or indirectly employ in the agriculture sector . it be the lifeblood that not only sustain our local rural economy but provide so much security in the national food supply chain , feed our nation . my constituent be immensely proud of this , but it be not without its challenge . there be the challenge of persevere with produce and deliver food for this country , despite unpredictable weather and rise cost of energy and fertilizer . I echo the call of the National Farmers Union Scotland for annual ringfence funding to support scottish farmer as they continue to deliver for our nation . it have be a great privilege to speak in this debate , and now that I sit on the other side of the House , it be a daily inspiration to see Sir David ' s coat of arm look down on we . I know that he , like we , would be work as hard as possible to ensure that we conservative return to the other side of the House at the early available opportunity , in four or five year ' time . I congratulate everybody in the House who have make their maiden speech today . they have speak so passionately about their constituency that I wish to visit they all , although I say to my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Test ( Satvir Kaur ) that I will come only if she promise to treat I to a fish - finger sandwich . I be honour to give my maiden speech today , and I do so in the mother of all Parliaments with the great humility . I will never forget that the people of Gillingham and Rainham have send I , a muslim woman , here and it be only with their authority and trust that I speak . it be a privilege that I will never take lightly , which be why I would also like to begin by pay tribute to Sir David Amess , who embody everything it mean to be a public servant ; I have learn a lot about he in the Chamber today . I take this opportunity to acknowledge my predecessor , Rehman Chishti , who serve his constituent faithfully over many year . Rehman arrive in this country at six year of age not speak a word of English , but with the support of a community and our school and teacher , he be eventually call to the Bar and then elect as an MP . he should be proud of his achievement in Parliament , and I wish he well with whatever the future hold for he . his story could only really happen in the UK , and I know the feeling : it be the feeling that I could not make sense anywhere else . I could visit Kenya , where my mother be bear , or Pakistan , where my father come from , but the moment I utter a single word or walk a few metre , anyone who would care to would know that I be not from there , because the only place I truly feel myself be my hometown . I be a child of Gillingham and Rainham , no matter how much a small minority might insist that I be not . I could say , " I ' m a Gillingham girl , I know I be , I ' m sure I be . " and now that I have say that , I can return to the Rainham end of the Priestfield stadium with my head hold high . it be that confidence that I want every child in my constituency to have , because opportunity be no good to a generation that feel so beat down that they dare not look up . I want they to have confidence that they can set a course for their life and have the mean to get there , or at least know how to make it possible . but that have to come from somewhere ; it have to start with someone . for I , it be my grandparent , the first generation of my family to emigrate to the UK . my grandfather work on the railway and my grandmother be a fruit picker . they make Gillingham and Rainham their home and teach I that nothing be easy , that thing have to be earn , and that when we work together — as a family , as worker , as a collective — we achieve more . they be my first political role model . it be because of my parent that I be stand here today . my father never stop believe in I , and he do not want I to be hold back by the same thing in life that have hold he back . before he sadly pass away in 2020 , he make I promise to not stop until I have make the change I want to see . I wish he be here to witness this today , but I know that with my mother ' s support — she be in the Gallery — I can do just that , not by myself , but together with all my colleague , our movement and the people of Gillingham and Rainham , with whom I make common cause . there be so much to build on . if the House have not already guess , we be the home to the mighty Gillingham football club . league one will be lucky to have we when we be good and ready . we also have Medway maritime hospital , a pillar of our community , staff by dedicated professional who do an outstanding job under increasingly difficult circumstance . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be not sure whether your privilege extend to a Disney + subscription , but if they do , please ensure that you watch " Sh ō gun " , which be base on the life of Will Adams . he be bear in Gillingham and be the first Englishman to navigate to Japan in 1598 , and he later become a samurai . when we be not export military hero , we be make they . Gillingham and Rainham have a proud military and naval history , share a former naval dockyard and the Royal Engineers with neighbouring constituency . we face our challenge . from speak to resident over the year , I know that a story of decline and disillusionment have become all too familiar , after year of neglect and a lack of hope . the bad of it be that it be not unknown . it be not a new insight ; this have be speak of many time in this House and the other place . it be say , it be forget , and we move on . over time , feel hopeless be the only rational response leave to the public . I hear it at first hand from countless resident , who be worried whether their child will have the same opportunity they have grow up , and whether our community will continue to thrive in the year to come . those concern be not unique to Gillingham and Rainham , but be deeply feel by the people I represent . it be my duty to ensure that their voice be hear in this House and that their need be meet by our Government , so that we can not only rebuild trust in our politic , but once again proudly say that this country be a place where anyone , regardless of background , can succeed . that be why I welcome the Government ' s pledge to improve child ' s speak skill as a helpful step to break down class barrier . it be those value that underpin my politic , and it be my experience that will drive my work as a Member of Parliament . have a place to call home should be a fundamental right . work for more than a decade in the housing industry , and most recently for the homelessness charity St Mungo ' s , have teach I that how someone access housing impact everything , from their physical and mental health to their life chance . that be why I will always champion my constituent ' right to good - quality , genuinely affordable home . that work be start in my constituency by the late alderman Paul Harriott , who also recognise that housing be more than just have a roof over your head . I will work tirelessly to improve our local healthcare service . the pressure on our NHS be immense , and it be vital that we secure the necessary resource and support to ensure that everyone have access to the good possible healthcare . the regeneration of our high street be a matter of great concern to my constituent , so I will advocate for policy that support small business , encourage investment and help to restore the vitality of our town centre , just like the Love Gillingham initiative that I proudly announce only last week . finally , I want to acknowledge the incredible sense of community in my constituency . whether it be neighbour look out for one another , volunteer work to support the most vulnerable or local group come together to tackle common challenge , it be clear that people care deeply about their community and each other . as their representative , I pledge to work in that same spirit of co - operation and compassion . I will listen to the people I serve , and I will fight for their interest in this House . the challenge we face be significant , but I be confident that together we can start to rebuild Gillingham and Rainham . I call Danny Chambers to make his maiden speech . thank you Madam Deputy Speaker . that be an interesting maiden speech ; it be clear how passionate you be — sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will get this right . the hon . member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Naushabah Khan ) speak passionately about her constituency and how hard she will work for her constituent . it be an absolute honour to speak in this David Amess Adjournment debate . we hear move tribute from people who know he . we aspire to be mp who be even half as good as he be for his constituency . practise as a veterinary surgeon have be deeply rewarding . despite the 3 am calving , visit colic in the middle of the night and euthanise much - love family pet , it be the perfect job for someone who grow up on a farm and love science at school . I be relieve when I get elect that my first job as an MP be still within my comfort zone : I be ask to judge the dog show at Meonstoke village fair . as I knock on a lot of door — all of we do — one of the most common question I get ask be , " be it true that vet can treat human as well ? " I always answer , " yes , vet can treat human , but once we ' ve take your temperature , people tend not to ask a second time . " [ Laughter . ] although be a vet be a fulfilling career , it be also stressful . it may surprise the House to learn that vet have a suicide rate that be about four time the national average . I have long be determined to do something about that . along with one of my good friend , Sarah Brown , we set up a support group for veterinary professional that now have more than 19 , 000 member . unfortunately , my friend Sarah lose her battle with depression , so I take her place as a trustee of the charity Vetlife , which support the mental health of the UK veterinary profession . not only do Vetlife have a 24 - hour helpline for people who be struggle , but we immediately refer anyone who be at crisis point with their mental health . I be sure the whole House be aware that , at the moment , a person who go to their gp in crisis may have to wait month , even more than a year , to get the specialist healthcare they need . I be sure we all agree that be not good enough . it be not only veterinary surgeon who be at high risk of mental health issue . other group need proactive support for their mental health , include military veteran , woman in the 12 month after give birth , farmer , the LGBT community and people struggle with debt . live in poverty make people vulnerable to the desperate cycle of payday loan company and credit card debt , which not only put strain on family relationship but sap the joy from life and contribute towards our mental health crisis . my experience , which be probably share by all member when they knock on door , be that one of the most common subject bring up be the struggle of parent to access mental health care for child and teenager whose education and social development be hugely disrupt by the pandemic . parent be worried sick about that . I be proud that the Lib Dems have say for year that mental health should be treat with the same importance as physical health . we be hearten that the Government reaffirm that in the King ' s Speech . the Winchester constituency have see slight boundary change , have incorporate some of the Meon Valley , so my constituent be serve by two mp in the last Parliament . I pay tribute to Steve Brine , who be also Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , and Flick Drummond . I thank they for all the hard work they do over the year for the people of my constituency . Winchester be once one of the ancient capital of England . it be steep in history . King Alfred the Great famously defend the city from viking attack in the ninth century , fortify Winchester and lead a series of successful campaign . he eventually secure a decisive victory in the battle of Edington in 878 , and that victory mark the beginning of the unification of England under his rule . the city be home to the magnificent Winchester cathedral , which have stand as the symbol of the city ' s religious and cultural significance for over a millennium . we also have one of the old newspaper in the country , the Hampshire Chronicle , which be still very popular and very well read . although we be proud of our rich history , we be also a forward - look community , keenly aware of our role in the world and our responsibility to the future . to that end , we be strive to become an official city of sanctuary for refugee , have welcome so many from Ukraine and other area of the world trouble by conflict . organisation such as Winchester Action on Climate Crisis — WinACC — be also work tirelessly to ensure that Winchester play our part in combat global climate change . the River Itchen flow right through the heart of our city , and the River Meon through the Meon valley — [ interruption . ] I must apologise ; I seem to have contract kennel cough — [ Laughter . ] these rare chalk stream support unique ecosystem so precious that the Itchen have be designate as a site of special scientific interest , and we hope the Meon will soon receive that same accreditation . allow sewage and other pollutant to be dump in these river be nothing short of ecological vandalism . climate change , pandemic , antimicrobial resistance , and how we feed 8 billion people and give they energy sustainably — these be daunt challenge , but we must face they because they be existential threat to our civilisation . but they be also economic opportunity ; the technology and expertise require to address they be opportunity for economic growth , and the UK have the potential to be a world leader in this area . no single country can address these issue alone , and to find lasting solution , we need a united effort from government , research institute , university , scientist , engineer , business and tech start - up worldwide . we have learn over the last few year that , whether deal with pandemic or climate change , the human and economic cost be enormous when our political leader ignore scientist and expert . my upbringing and my state school education give I the opportunity to have an enjoyable and fulfilling career , but I be also aware that I be privileged . I always have a roof over my head , I have a stable family life , I never go to school hungry and my mother , who be here today , be a former teacher and use to read to we every night — I vividly remember the day she quite angrily say , " I be not read ' Danny the Champion of the World ' to you one more time . " but many child today be not so fortunate , and the increase number of child grow up in poverty lack the opportunity I have . although these be complex issue , we can begin address they by provide free school meal to all child who be hungry to ensure that every child can reach their full potential . have I go to school hungry , it be very unlikely I would have become a veterinary surgeon , and even less likely that I would be stand here as a Member of Parliament . I will miss treat animal on a daily basis , although some of my colleague have say to I , " it be fantastic for animal welfare that you have be elect to Parliament , because it mean you will be spend less time in the veterinary clinic . " but I think I be go to have a big impact on animal welfare here than I ever could in clinical practice . my goal include update the outdated Veterinary Surgeons Act 1966 to make it fit for the 21st century . we also need to address issue such as puppy smuggling , which be not only an animal welfare issue but a human health risk , bring the risk of import rabie , brucella cani and other disease that affect the human population . I also want to support our british farmer in uphold our high animal welfare standard , and to ensure that those be not compromise in future trade deal . it be not only vet and farmer who be proud of our high animal welfare standard but the british public , and we must not compromise they . I thank my team of volunteer , many of whom be here today , who work so hard not only during the general election campaign but in the transition to set up a constituency office . they have be fantastic . while we have be recruit for permanent member of staff , they have do over 800 piece of casework , support our local community . I thank my family and my partner , Emma . I pay tribute to my father , who be no long with we . our family have the heartbreaking experience of care for he as he decline due to dementia . I know there be many people in Winchester , Hampshire and throughout the country who be experience the same situation with their love one . it be the honour of my life to serve as Winchester ' s MP . I will continue to stand up and fight for our local NHS service and our local hospital service . I thank everyone who put their faith in I and my team . we will not let you down . I call Tristan Osborne to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) on his excellent speech . I note that he have a bit of a frog in his throat , but he make it well — it be fantastic . I be interested , in particular , to hear his view on " Danny the Champion of the World " . I be remind of how quintessentially british it be to hear about fishfinger sandwich from Southampton and Armitage Shanks from Lichfield , and to hear about Devon pasty from the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) . it be a tribute to all of we that our constituency be such a rich tapestry of difference and diversity . it be in that tradition that I stand before you today . I believe that David Amess would be proud of this Parliament and proud of the speech give . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , who speak eloquently , with fond anecdote , on the character , charm and wit of the former Member . I can say that my speech be not write on toilet paper . [ laughter . ] however , I be possibly equally surprised to be elect to this Chamber as he be back in the 1980 . it be a privilege to be elect to represent the community of Chatham , Aylesford , Snodland and the surround village . we all do this not for award or recognition , but simply because we all want to make our community well , safe and fairer . I would like to place on record my thank to the House staff for the welcome and support they have give all new member over the last few week , especially as there be so many of we this time : the Table Office , the Speaker ' s Office , the Doorkeepers , security and , as a former teacher , a special thank to the education support assistant who do such outstanding work on tour . yesterday , I have the great pleasure of meet a Mr o ' Sullivan , who be shortly to depart the education centre to go into teaching . I wish he all the good in that pursuit . preparation for this speech have not be without trepidation , and I have have a significant amount of advice from member , former member , sibling , partner and former student alike . one piece of advice be to treat it like a wedding speech : tread carefully to keep both side of the aisle happy and always remember to speak highly of your elder . that be until I be remind that , as I be in my mid - 40 , I be possibly one of those elder , give how the age differential have change . another piece of advice , from a former member , be to always keep the whip happy . hear , hear ! on that note , second only to Bridgend , Chatham and Aylesford be one of the most beautiful constituency in the country . [ laughter . ] create in 1997 from the previous Rochester and Chatham , Mid Kent , and Tonbridge and Malling seat , we have a rich legacy of excellent and outspoken parliamentarian , include Dame Peggy Fenner , Andrew Rowe , Julian Critchley , Jonathan Shaw and the remarkable Dame Tracey Crouch . what can I say ? Dame Tracey be well know for her warm personality and diligence . she be engage , and her constituent speak well of she on the doorstep and in the 14 year she represent the area . I be also reliably informed that , unlike I , she have a legendary involvement in the parliamentary football team . I be reliably inform , again , that her tackling skill be well know , and that no one ever try to take the ball from she when she be in full flight . on a serious note , she have do outstanding work on the football fan - lead review , she lead on anti - gamble legislation when she be in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , and she have leave a deeply inspire legacy for young woman in sport in particular . I salute her record and her fortitude . my constituent embody aspiration and determination . although I be raise in the city of Medway , I have be actively involve in Chatham since 2001 . it be a dynamic and diverse area , with hard - work , direct and down - to - earth people . the constituency be truly beautiful , with stunning panoramic view from Blue Bell Hill over the weald of Kent . on a clear day one can see many other constituency , include Tonbridge , Sevenoaks , Maidstone and Malling and Canterbury , and many walker and hiker find entertainment along the historic Pilgrims ' way . the seat also contain some of the early human settlement history , with the megalithic structure of Kit ' s Coty hark back to neolithic time . it be identify with numerous artefact of historical significance , although I must say to the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) that there be — perhaps — no chalk figure of historic stature in my constituency . the part of my constituency that will be most familiar to Members be Chatham , whose historic legacy be know across the world . its significance as a commission dockyard have be recognise globally , and its long - stand naval tradition date back to Henry VIII and the Tudor period . the area retain that naval link until the 1980 , when the dockyard be closed , and it still have that proud naval tradition . I be reliably informed that the Resolute desk in the Oval Office , in the heart of western democracy , come from HMS Resolute , which be construct and support in Chatham , and many of our fine naval tradition have come from that location . Chatham and Aylesford do , however , face significant challenge . many area , particularly urban Chatham , experience poverty , and , accord to figure from the House of Commons Library , 17 % of child be live in poverty . issue such as crime and antisocial behaviour have be exacerbate by cut in neighbourhood policing and early intervention programme . I be committed to work with all our community to address those challenge . , and it be on that note that I want to pay particular tribute to many of the charity and other organisation that serve my local community . they include the Arches project in Luton , the dementia awareness group , Street Angels , Royal British Legion Industries and our Poppy Appeal volunteer , who go out every year to collect fund for veteran and our military community . I believe that community wealth building should be central to our approach to government . by focus on wealth creation , we can drive and support local business and revitalise our town centre . my hon . friend the Member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Naushabah Khan ) have do excellent work in that neighbouring seat to revitalise Gillingham town centre , and I will seek to replicate it , work closely with council leader across Medway , Tonbridge and Malling and Kent county council to advance the agenda . in recent week I have hear many inspiring speech from new member , but what unite we all be a shared ambition to effect positive change for our community and our country . I be honour to serve , and I pledge to work across party line to ensure economic security and improvement in our public service — and I will do so in a friendly , open and approachable way . the Government must of course deal with the £ 22 billion in - year deficit , and we must work to secure our economic prosperity to ensure that all our people , especially our young people , have the skill that will give they a future . I be deeply honour to represent the constituent of Chatham and Aylesford . rise — Order . before member make their contribution , they may wish to bear in mind that I will be call the Front Benchers at 4 . 45 pm . it be a great honour to be call to speak in the Sir David Amess adjournment debate . let I first refer member to my register interest before I make some point about my constituency . there have be many maiden speech this afternoon — the great tradition of the House — and I congratulate the new hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) . follow Dame Tracey Crouch be no mean feat — I have do that in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport . I have appear on the medium with the hon . Gentleman , and he will do very well for his constituent . we also hear from the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , who talk about vet and about dementia . he speak about some very personal issue in front of his family , which be to be applaud . all member , include our new action man , my hon . friend the Member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) , have make move contribution . the new hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) be clearly a champion of carer , and he talk about disability . I have enjoy listen to everyone ' s speech this afternoon . many of we be not new member , but we be new to part of our constituency , and it be right that we gallop around our constituency in the way that Sir David Amess do , so that you be happy with we , Madam Deputy Speaker . I shall try to do that in the fine of his tradition . one thing I share with Sir David Amess be that I have own a Westminster dog of the year ; in fact , the reign Westminster dog of the year . I have give back the trophy , and the battle will be back on — it be TJ ' s trophy right now . I be the first Member for East Grinstead and Uckfield . part of my constituency be previously in the Horsham constituency , which the right honourable Sir Jeremy Quin represent , and in the Lewes constituency , which Maria Caulfield represent . both be assiduous Members of Parliament who be dedicate to cause and very effective . I feel the pressure of follow in their footstep in my constituency , which be very rural . it have part of Lewes and Wealden , and 50 % or thereabout of the Mid Sussex district . I wish the new hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) well ; we have already be work together on several issue . today she raise the issue of hospice funding , which St Catherine ' s hospice in Pease Pottage be particularly struggle with , as be St Peter & St James hospice in North Chailey . if we be to talk about assist dying , we also need to talk about die well and live well , and I urge the Government to look at hospice funding in the wide discussion about the nhs that we have have today . Uckfield hospital need further support and my local GP service , which be run by modality , be struggle in Crawley Down , East Grinstead and part of Burgess Hill , as they be elsewhere . indeed , I have hear in the last few week that the Balcombe surgery need further support . our local gps do a fabulous job , and it be important that we support they in the wide NHS . road and pothole have be perennial issue in my inbox ; I be sure that new member have find the same . we have issue with traffic light , queue and Royal Mail delivery in Slaugham , Pease Pottage and Uckfield . these problem be get on constituent ' nerve , so we need to tackle they . there be some amazing local business in my constituency . Tim Haynes be a second - generation florist in Pease Pottage and serve his customer diligently . as in many community , many of our business be small , rural and family - lead , and they include farm . the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) say that fine word and fine food be not the same when it come to farming , and we must make sure that we back our farmer again this week . I have correspondence in my inbox about education , health and care plan ; SEND provision ; and special school place . this be a very difficult area for many of my constituent , and we face increase diagnosis and challenge . as the Government look to charge vat on fee for independent school , I ask that they consider the impact on child without ehcp who be be support in independent school . a significant proportion of pupil in my constituency attend independent school , and parent be very worried about the impact of any change on their child . what happen go forward must be fair to all child . turn to some positive , I recently attend the Queen Victoria hospital and the planting of a maple tree to celebrate the 80th anniversary of the canadian wing and the work of the plastic surgeon in the town that doesn ' t stare . I thank the team who welcome I recently to the citizen advice bureau in Uckfield , which be a wonderful town . they work hard to support many rural resident in an area where poverty be not see and notice as it be in other area . Burgess Hill academy , Blackthorns community primary academy and Lindfield primary academy be have a particular issue with general annual grant pooling by the University of Brighton Academies Trust . some 14 school be part of that group , and those local school be see an impact on their day - to - day budget . I implore the Government and the trust to work with local mp to make sure that the support that be be give for pupil actually land in the lap of teacher and student . that worry I greatly . finally , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Nicholas Soames . he call I " Mimsey " and his constituent . he be supportive , bombastic , warm and strident . he always stick up for commuter and for casework being of the high order . we all seek to continue in his fine tradition of stand up for those who go to work , work hard and live in our constituency . if we be lucky enough to be send here , a legacy such as his — like that of Sir David — be one that we aspire to . I thank all hon . member for their wonderful maiden speech , especially my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) . I look forward to speak to she about her career in the Prison Officers ' Association and the " 68 be too late " campaign . it be an honour to speak in the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate . the warmth and respect with which he be speak about be a measure of the gentleman . my contribution be neither light - hearted nor happy . the news that Grangemouth will stop refine oil in quarter 2 of 2025 be devastating . it be accurate to say that the mood music from the refinery owner have be pessimistic for some time , but even with the threat of closure that have be hang over the refinery , today ' s news be shocking . what be happen will be feel far beyond Grangemouth . it will reverberate around Scotland , Northern Ireland and the north of England — the area of the UK that Grangemouth primarily service . its closure will have an impact on all the constituency there . I will give a brief history . some 100 year ago , Grangemouth be the perfect location for a refinery . there be an abundance of flat land , a bustling harbour and , crucially , an already skilled workforce that be experience in shale refining . it be one of the first crude oil refinery in the UK . it be currently the primary supplier of aviation fuel for Scotland ' s main airport and a major supplier of petrol and diesel ground fuel across the central belt of Scotland . it also provide power to the Forties oil pipeline , bring oil and gas ashore from the North sea . although operation and procedure have change over the century , a highly skilled local workforce remain a constant . I could detail the statistic about how the Grangemouth site contribute 4 % of Scotland ' s GDP and be a key piece of scottish infrastructure , but while that be accurate and pertinent when talk about the refinery , I want to talk about the human side of the issue . when the refinery be know locally as " the BP " , there be social club and gala event for family . Grangemouth be know as Scotland ' s boom town . the refinery , and specifically the worker , create a community that be industrious and working class , where the job be dangerous , skilled and highly value . the Grangemouth refinery provide apprenticeship to local people , and the possibility to gain the experience and world - class qualification that provide the opportunity of forge a career , a platform for self - improvement , and social mobility . for those of we who represent constituency with social issue , which be often bear out of industry leave those community , social mobility have become a negative journey , not a positive one . the comparison with the miner of four decade ago be clear . and like the miner of the 1980 who keep Britain warm , the refinery worker of Grangemouth keep Britain move . what happen to the miner can not be the fate of Grangemouth refinery worker . over the past few month , the campaign to keep Grangemouth work have spread the message of extend the life of the refinery , invest in the workforce and make sure there be no gap that would see worker lose their job . I have stand in solidarity with the refinery worker , and I will continue to do so . unite the union have say that it do not accept that the future of the refinery " should have be leave to the whim and avarice of shareholder . " I completely agree . energy security be intrinsically link to national security , and for both to be in the hand of a foreign Government and private capital be inherently wrong , not to mention utterly reckless . the primary ideal of the Keep Grangemouth Working campaign be to extend the life of the refinery so that a truly just transition can be achieve . that be what should happen , and nothing will convince I otherwise . oil will still be part of the energy mix for a while yet , and the refinery worker know that . they also know that oil will not last forever . they know that clean industry must come , and they tell I that they want to be part of a new green industrial revolution . they have so many of the skill that will be require for we to achieve net zero and make Britain a clean energy superpower , but if there be a gap between refining stop next year and these new industry be ready , the truth be that the workforce will be go . worker can not hang around and wait , because mortgage need to be pay and family need to be feed . job must be find or talent will leave . the impact on the local community and the local economy would be enormous . the shop , the pub , the restaurant , the hotel , the caf é s , the bed and breakfast and the snack van would all suffer if the refinery be to close . as a government , we must do everything we can . I welcome the step that the Secretary of State and his team have take with the announcement of £ 20 million of funding to support the community and its worker by invest in local energy project to create new growth for Grangemouth . I have previously speak positively about Project Willow and the importance of it be a joint commitment between both government to determine what the industrial future of Grangemouth will be , because both the UK Government and the Scottish Government will need to work together . the new work relationship that this Labour Government have with the Scottish Government have already show its worth . I know how hard the Secretary of State have work during the intensive discussion with the refinery owner to secure tailor support for the worker who be impact and , along with his counterpart in the Scottish Government , to devise a plan that will help to secure Grangemouth ' s industrial future and protect the workforce . I thank they both for show what can be achieve when both government work together , but it be just a start . this Labour Government have do more on this issue in eight week than the Conservative Government do in 14 year . today ' s news , although shocking , have be come . truthfully , Project Willow or the like should have be do and deliver year ago . the worker and the Grangemouth community need action that lead to we create something truly transformative and world lead at Grangemouth . sustainable aviation fuel , low - carbon hydrogen and clean e - fuel — let we not rule anything out of the equation for the Grangemouth site . but we must act quickly , because time be of the essence . if we be to have a truly just transition , one that look after worker and their community , we must move with purpose and speed on determine the industrial future of the Grangemouth site . and Grangemouth must continue refine until these new energy be ready . there have be an environmental need for a green industrial revolution for a long time , and it have be discuss for age , but now we see the social need for a transition to clean energy , and the need for that have be incredibly accelerate today . I call Helen Maguire to make her maiden speech . thank you for call I to make my maiden speech , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) on his contribution . it be interesting to hear about the challenge face industry in his constituency . it be with immense pride and honour that I stand here today to give my maiden speech as the first ever female and first ever Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for Epsom and Ewell , which also include the town of Ashtead and Leatherhead . this moment be not just about my election victory , but part of a long journey of progress that start with brave woman like Emily Wilding Davison , a suffragette who give her life for the cause of woman ' s right . in 1911 , she famously hide within the wall of this very building , the Palace of Westminster , to declare it her residence on the night of the census . just two year later , she make the ultimate sacrifice , lose her life at the Epsom Derby while campaign for woman ' s suffrage . it be remarkable that today , 101 year after her pass , we now have 263 woman in this Parliament , more than ever before . that progress be a testament to her legacy and the relentless effort of organisation such as 50 : 50 Parliament , whose support in get I here I be personally grateful for . I be delighted that there be now progress towards establish a woman ' s caucus in Parliament . I want to take this opportunity to congratulate Lord Grayling , my predecessor , on his move to the other place , and to thank he for his 23 year of dedicated service to Epsom and Ewell . his service to the community be well recognise , and I look forward to build upon that work , while bring fresh perspective and new energy to our local and national challenge . the community of Epsom and Ewell pride itself on strong local value , resilience , and a rich sporting and creative history . it be home to the world - famous Epsom Derby . we have the University for the Creative Arts , Laine Theatre Arts and many sporting club , include three run club and two football club . it have several vibrant economic hub , with many successful business , large and small . but it be the people who make my constituency special . whether it be our small business , voluntary group or the diverse family who have make the area their home , Epsom and Ewell represent the good of what a community can be when it work together . Epsom and Ewell be a beautiful place , bless with remarkable green space and historical significance . we be fortunate to have three site of special scientific interest : Ashtead Common , Priest Hill and Stones Road pond . we also have beautiful green space , such as Horton and Nonsuch park , Epsom Downs and the Surrey hill , an area of outstanding natural beauty . one site that hold special meaning for many be Langley Vale , which be use to train over 8 , 000 soldier during the first world war and where Lord Kitchener famously inspect the troop . today , it stand as a centenary wood , a place of reflection with beautiful sculpture honour our military past . as someone who proudly serve in the Army , in the Royal Military Police , I be deeply move by our community ' s tie to the armed force . my own military experience include serve in Iraq during Operation Telic IV in 2004 , where I be responsible for retrain and mentor the iraqi police force in Maysan province . it be a volatile and dangerous region at that time and it be not an easy tour . we come under fire on a regular basis and it be make hard with the knowledge that , just a year before my arrival , six of my RMP colleague be kill in Majar al - Kabir . the coroner find that they have be give inadequate radio and ammunition , so it be no surprise that we be give more ammo and weapon when I arrive . I want to ensure that our armed force continue to have the right resource to stay safe in their duty as this Government conduct their spending review . I hope the Secretary of State for Defence will bear in mind the effect that cut can have in the field . Lord Darzi ' s report about the NHS be publish today , so it be apt that I share a personal experience that underscore my commitment to improve healthcare service in Epsom and Ewell . in 2007 , my six - week - old son suddenly turn blue in front of I , while a health visitor be visit . I call 999 . it be a terrifying moment , and before I know what be go on , my living room be pack with paramedic and there be equipment everywhere . I be tell to pack a bag and shortly afterwards we arrive at A & E . the crash team be there and my baby boy be surround by 20 consultant try to figure out what be wrong . I stand there look on , helpless . the doctor manage to stabilise my son and move he to the amazing Evelina hospital , just over the river from Parliament , as they do not have the specialist equipment need . he go into the paediatric intensive care unit . every bit of his skin , even his head , be cover by some sort of patch or monitor to try to establish what be go on . the consultant inform we that he have bronchiolitis and that it would be touch and go that evening . thankfully , my son survive the night and we spend over a week in intensive care , as the amazing doctor work to save his life from bronchiolitis . I see at first hand the critical importance of high - quality emergency care . it be my mission to make sure that the resident of Epsom , Ewell , Ashtead and Leatherhead have access to the good possible healthcare . our community be promise one of the 40 new hospital . that commitment must be fulfil . we be part of the Epsom and St Helier University Hospitals NHS Trust . St Helier hospital be struggle , with crumble facility and overstretched staff . we have few hospital bed per capita than in many other nation . ceiling be fall in and building be condemn . the need for a new hospital be urgent , and I look forward to discuss it with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care in the come week . the House will be pleased to know that my son be now a big , strong 16 - year - old , challenge his parent as every teenager do . Epsom and Ewell be home to two significant river : the Hogsmill , a relatively pristine chalk river whose beauty be immortalise by Sir John Everett Millais in his iconic paint " Ophelia " ; and the River Mole , which be one of the most polluted in the country . Thames Water ' s negligent handling of our water resource have lead to more than 8 , 000 hour of sewage discharge into the River Mole in the first six month of this year alone . Thames Water be cripple by be billion in debt , and water bill keep rise . executive bonus be hand out as the sewage be pour out . this mismanagement of our water be unacceptable . I call for great regulation and accountability and for a sewage tax to protect our river and water infrastructure . Epsom and Ewell have affluent area , but we also face stark social inequality . there be part of my constituency in which food bank have become a lifeline for struggle family , and our local housing waiting list have grow to more than 1 , 300 household . food bank be not the norm ; they be a sign that society simply be not work . I be concerned that even more of my constituent will be use they this winter as they struggle without the winter fuel allowance . the stark contrast between wealth and deprivation be a reminder that we must do more to support those who be most in need . I be incredibly grateful for the work of the Good Company , the Leatherhead community hub , local faith organisation and all the volunteer and local charity who work tirelessly to provide for our community ' s most vulnerable . as the Member of Parliament for Epsom and Ewell — a constituency that stretch from Worcester Park and Stoneleigh in the north to Ashtead and Leatherhead , the gateway of the Surrey hill , in the south — I want our community to thrive economically , socially and environmentally . my constituency have inspire literary great such as C . s . Lewis and Jane Austen . I believe that it can continue to be a place of innovation and inspiration . I thank my parent for their support throughout the year . I thank my husband and three kid for their support and their leaflete prowess throughout my campaign . most importantly , I thank my constituent for place their trust in I . I be committed to repay their trust with service , dedication and determination to make Epsom and Ewell a well place for everyone . I call Kevin McKenna to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to address the House for my first speech , and for make time available for so many of we to make our first speech today . I particularly congratulate the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) : the story about her child in intensive care touch I very deeply , as an intensive care practitioner . I can see that she be go to be a fantastic advocate for our armed force and for the thing they need to serve the country well . in pass , I must mention Lord Darzi ' s report , which my right hon . friend the Health Secretary present to the House today — not because of the content of the report , but because in 2015 I be honour to become a Darzi fellow . Lord Darzi set up his fellowship programme to bring clinician like I , a nurse , into clinical leadership , to ensure that the NHS and the health system be lead by clinician . I be not sure that the plan be to get we all into the Houses of Parliament , but I be the first Darzi fellow here and I think there will be quite a few more . I be honour to speak in this debate in memory of Sir David Amess , whose constituency of Southend West can be see from mine of Sittingbourne and Sheppey — we see the beautiful vista of Southend , which be now a city , across the Thames . over the past few month , during the campaign and afterwards , there have be several time when I have look over at Southend and take a moment to reflect on the manner and the tragedy of Sir David ' s death and what it mean for all of we serve here in the House . it be a great blessing of my constituency that , amid our busy , traffic - laden town , we have these beautiful vista down the Thames and the Medway estuary . we have broad , flat salt marsh meet big sky — place that you can escape to and properly reflect on everything that matter in life . during the election campaign , I ask my constituent what they value most in the constituency , and it be that proximity to nature that keep come up . they mention the wide - open estuary water of the Thames and Medway — several of my Medway colleague be in their place today — the many site of special scientific interest and the nature reserve at Elmley . now that member be spend time in London , they might want to pop down for a hot yoga weekend — it ' s a whole thing . however — so many member have say something similar when describe their seat — that be only half the story . the other half be the still proudly industrial town of Sittingbourne . its character and location challenge many people ' s preconception of Kent . sittingbourne ' s twin on the Isle of Sheppey , Sheerness - on - Sea , have busy dock — dock that , hopefully , will become only busy as the opportunity for growth , construction and new green industry be realise by this Government . Sittingbourne and Sheppey be perfectly locate to take advantage of all that development . my job be not only to argue for our place in the rebuilding of Britain , but to ensure that my constituent see real social , economic , health and wellbeing benefit from the opportunity . the factor that lead to the foundation of our town be lay century ago fit the way that technological , industrial and transport strategy be all point now . sittingbourne straddle the main road from Dover to London and be connect directly by water , road and rail to Sheerness dock on Sheppey . this be what make the Saxon king of Kent grab the land and claim it as their terra regis . this be something that the resident of Milton Regis be very proud to remind I of — that it be a royal town in the middle of Sittingbourne . it be those same route that allow the town of Queenborough to develop as a major port . tuck behind Sheppey be the safe waterway — and major trading route — from London through to the continent and the rest of the world . those route be also what enable Sittingbourne to develop a major brick - building industry in the 19th century . it produce more brick and have more people work in it than the pottery in Staffordshire . those brick be largely use to build London . many town house in the 19th century , Buckingham Palace and many of the building on this parliamentary estate will have be build with the clay and brick from Sittingbourne . our water and transport give we the opportunity to produce green energy and bring about green way of travel . that will benefit Sittingbourne and Sheerness in the future . Peel Ports at Sheerness be a major importer of construction material for the south of England . with investment to restore our rail freight link and an ambition to once again use our water route , we can be at the heart of a green revolution . but there be more to a place than land and water . a place be make by people . what will ensure that the people of my constituency get the benefit that they be cry out for as a result of growth and rebuilding be the strength of our local community and the collective action that come from grassroots organisation . as we move more service out of hospital to the community and try to mend the broken sense of cohesion in our society , these community actor will be key . there be great organisation , include seashell nursery in Sheerness , which hold true to the course take by sure Start centre , with their now prove benefit , although they be sadly under threat of closure , and Wiggles child ' s nursery , which have partner with Sheppey ' s Range Rovers football club to create a multi - generational facility that will massively boost the health of the neighbourhood . there be also people come together , on the island and the mainland , to form progressive man ' s mental health peer support group , include Men - Talk . UK in Sheppey and Sittingbourne . a team of volunteer resurrect the Sittingbourne carnival this year after several year ' gap to ensure that its tradition of more than 130 year do not die , but instead will go from strength to strength . there be Swale food bank , and underpin so many of the voluntary organisation in my constituency be Swale Community and Voluntary Services , which foster lot of organisation , help they to get start , get organise and help their community . part of the reason for that depth of community co - operation be that my constituency face the challenge of have some of the most deprived part of Kent and the south - east . unfortunately , a big driver for that be the very geography that otherwise bring in so many benefit and opportunity . as Sheppey be an island , with only one point in the west that connect to the rest of England , there be pocket of isolation , and when the two bridge go down , as sadly they have all too often of late , people can not get off Sheppey to go to work or school , or on to Sheppey to deliver service in Sheppey ' s hospital , school , dock and three prison . all that impact not just Sheppey but Sittingbourne and the surround village . both my predecessor work to overcome those entrench challenge . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Gordon Henderson , who many here know well , for his work persuade his party when they be in power to invest in technical skill training on the island and expand Sheppey college . my labour predecessor , Derek Wyatt , secure the funding for a permanent fix bridge to the island , the Sheppey crossing , to overcome the problem of the old Kingsferry bridge , which be only a few metre away and have to be raise several time a day to let ship through , to link the paper mill and the dock . both of they believe in the enormous potential of the area , but there be a lot more to do . it be a professional habit of intensive care nurse that we be inveterate fiddler and fixer . we like to help people , and we like to keep busy do so . now that I have swap adjust ventilator setting and syringe driver for work in public policy , however , I need to find new way to keep busy . I will keep work with people in Sittingbourne and Sheppey to bring they together , and will work collaboratively at try to fix thing for the well , but there be one thing in the constituency that I assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will not be fiddle with : the SS Richard Montgomery , a wrecked world war two cargo ship sink just off Sheerness , which be pack with something like 1 , 400 tonne of high explosive . Most expert feel that as long as the ship be not disturb , the seawater will gradually inactivate those explosive , so if they be ever disturb enough to trigger , any firework would be minor . however , there be a minority view that if something trigger all the explosive to go off at once , the result explosion would not just inundate the whole of Sittingbourne and Sheppey but send a 5 - metre tsunami back up the Thames , all the way to central London , swamp the Palace of Westminster — give we all very wet foot , and most of the mps in the south - east and London an awful lot of extra casework . finally , I thank my constituent again for put their faith in I ; the campaigner and activist who help I to get elect ; my parent and sibling , who have always show how proud they be of I ; and most of all , my husband Lee , who I could not have get this far in life without , and who be a true partner to I in everything that we do . I call Manuela Perteghella to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I thank all hon . member for their fine contribution , include my hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) and the hon . member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) . it be the great honour of my life to serve the people of Stratford - on - Avon . I be humble to have be elect to represent the place that I call home , where I live and where I have raise my family , who be here today in the Public Gallery . I be proud to be the first Liberal MP for our constituency in over a century , and the first woman ever to be elect to this role . I extend my heartfelt thank to the people of Stratford , Alcester , Studley , Shipston , Henley , Bidford and the many village and hamlet that make up our beautiful constituency . I thank they for place their trust in I . I promise to be their champion , and a strong and unwavering voice for everyone , fight every day for the fair deal that they deserve . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Nadhim Zahawi , who be MP for Stratford - on - Avon for the last 14 year . during his political career he cover many important role in the Cabinet , but I thank he in particular for his work as vaccine Minister during the covid pandemic . I also acknowledge the service of the late John Maples , who represent Stratford - on - Avon with distinction from 1997 to 2010 , before be elevate to the other place . he be both well like and greatly admire . although I be proud to be the first female MP for Stratford - on - Avon , I be not the first to bring italian heritage to the role . that distinction belong to another of my predecessor , John Profumo , who beat I to it — although I plan on a much quieter stay in the history book . my constituency be one of the most beautiful area of our country , with luscious woodland such as the Heart of England forest , valley lap by river and brook , and fertile farmland — a landscape special as only the Warwickshire countryside can be . my connection to my constituency be one of deep love . I love the stretch from Shipston - on - Stour and the rolling Cotswolds fringe in the south , to the Avon valley village and Henley - in - Arden in the north , where the majestic forest of Arden once stand . at the heart of my constituency lie the town of Stratford - upon - Avon , celebrate worldwide as the birthplace of the great playwright of all : William Shakespeare . each year on William ' s birthday , the town remember and celebrate its most famous son , with civic dignitary and local schoolchildren parade through the historic street to lay flower on his tomb in Holy Trinity church . I look forward to join they next April . what make our constituency special above all be its people , who be resilient and community minded . each town and village be bless with warm - hearted volunteer help in repair caf é s , food bank , the community speed watch and flood action group . there be outstanding place of learning , such as our local school and college , the Shakespeare Institute of the University of Birmingham , and the University of Warwick ' s innovation campus ; national portfolio organisation such as the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust ; as well as grassroots art company such as the Bear Pit Theatre and Escape Arts . event such as the Shipston Proms celebrate the wealth of musical talent . Most of all , we be a constituency of entrepreneur and innovator , business and social enterprise . overlook by Beaudesert castle — know locally as " the Mount " — the town of Henley - in - Arden have a timber - frame high street , which include Henley ' s most famous attraction , Henley Ice Cream , which be well worth a visit . alcester be a town rich in community spirit that come together each year for event such as the Alcester food festival . the town ' s root stretch back to roman time , and its heritage be proudly preserve today in the Roman Alcester Museum . just up the road from Alcester be Coughton Court , home of the Throckmorton family , who play a rather infamous role in the gunpowder plot of 1605 . as the new MP for the area , I assure the House that I will not continue that local tradition . my constituency also have some of the most beautiful waterway in the country . the Rivers Avon , Alne , Arrow and Stour , and our fantastic canal network , include the long canal aqueduct in England — the Edstone aqueduct — be not only vital to our community ' s natural and industrial heritage , but be central to our environmental responsibility . sadly , not enough have be do to tackle river pollution . I thank resident for join citizen ' science project to regularly test the water and collect much - need datum on the state of our river ' health , so that we can hold the Government and water company to account . as a rural constituency , we face many challenge : NHS dentistry desert , long wait time for mental health service , special educational need and disability family battle for education provision , and fuel poverty . many of my vulnerable constituent live in off - grid home that be expensive to heat . the Warm Homes and Energy Conservation Act 2000 , introduce by Sir David Amess , be important legislation that seek to eliminate fuel poverty . to far combat it , we need an emergency home insulation programme so that home be safe , warm and cheap to heat . as Shakespeare write : " some be bear great , some achieve greatness , and other have greatness thrust upon ' em . " I stand here today not because I be bear great , or because I seek greatness , but because the people of Stratford - on - Avon have entrust I with public service . together , we can achieve greatness not for ourselves , but for our constituent and our country . with a new Parliament , we have a chance to strive for a fair , green and more inclusive future . the stage be set , and it be now time for we to play our part . it be a great pleasure to wind up the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate for the Opposition . all of we who serve in the House with Sir David remember he with enormous affection . we all remember his sense of humour and dedication to Southend with enormous fondness . I particularly thank my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for open the debate and for his word about Sir David , which I be sure all of we will remember for a long time to come . we have have something like 25 speech this afternoon . it will be difficult to touch on all of they in such a short time , but I will try to canter through some of the more memorable moment . the hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) , a fellow south Londoner , speak eloquently in his maiden speech . he clearly bring profound personal experience of care to the House and we look forward to hear a great deal more from he during his time with we . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) speak with his customary passion about fire safety , and he make some extremely important point about the need to expedite the remedial work to the cladding on tall building , which we will be follow carefully on both side of the House . I congratulate he on his triumphant election , or acclamation , as Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee . we have another fine maiden speech from the hon . member for Reading West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) . I learn that her constituency be the setting for " the Wind in the Willows " , and we hear how she draw inspiration from her mother , a teacher , and her father , a police officer . it be not exactly a maiden speech from my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) — perhaps he give one some time in the mist of the 19th century , I don ' t know — but he recall those who serve in the second world war and draw the House ' s attention to the importance of strengthen the independence of the Intelligence and Security Committee , which he have the distinction of chairing in the last Parliament . we have another maiden speech from the hon . member for Southampton Test ( Satvir Kaur ) . we hear that the Mayflower set sail from Southampton and it have a premier league team once again , but I hope that Crystal Palace , the premier league team in my borough of Croydon , secure victory whenever we meet . my hon . friend the Member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) also speak . I be tell that he be the good man at the wedding of the hon . member for Southampton Test — be that right ? indicate assent . well , there we be ; we have some cross - party link already . in her maiden speech , the hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) touch on a lot of local issue , include a desire to deliver a local power plant . I be sure that all of we wish her good luck in that undertaking . we have another maiden speech from the hon . member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) , with a tribute to John Howell , his predecessor , who sadly suffer a stroke a few month ago . all of we wish he a speedy recovery , and I wish the new Member for Henley and Thame well in represent his beautiful consistency — not as beautiful as Croydon , but fairly beautiful none the less . in another maiden speech , the hon . member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) speak about his experience work on serious crime and fraud , and pay tribute to the Bolton mountain rescue team . I be sure all of they have our good wish . that be follow by the maiden speech — they be come thick and fast — of my hon . friend the Member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) . I understand that he get marry during the campaign . that be a pretty bold move , I must say . I be not quite sure where his honeymoon be hold — " darling , come with I to a constituency committee room while we do some telling . " maybe that be a euphemism , I don ' t know . anyway , I hope his marriage get off to a good start . he be a braver man than I be . the maiden speech from the hon . member for Mid Derbyshire ( Jonathan Davies ) include a tribute to our former colleague , Pauline Latham . the new Member speak with great eloquence about the creative industry that be so important in that constituency . we hear quite a lot about local issue from the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , include the local bus timetable in Coleshill and the importance of help pensioner on the question of the winter fuel allowance , which we debate just a few day ago . we have a maiden speech from the new hon . member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) . I be go to say that he have some big footstep to fill , but he have quite a big haircut to follow as well . we will see whether his lock be quite so luxuriant in 30 year ' time — there be some solution available should they be necessary . the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) make another fine maiden speech , draw attention to the gigantic carve image — the fertility symbol — of Cerne Abbas . I be sure he will be stand as proudly as the figure in that image . the new hon . member for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) pay tribute to his predecessor , Sir Graham Brady , who be keep busy with the shenanigan on the conservative side of the House over the past few year . hopefully his successor , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East , will not be quite so occupied . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about the Hong Kong population that his constituency be host , who be flee persecution by the Chinese Communist party . of course , where people flee genuine persecution , this be a nation that welcome they . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , who have move place in the Chamber just to confuse I — it be easily do . he draw attention to the importance of the Scotch whisky industry , which I be sure we all support enthusiastically , as well as the North sea and the oil and gas contain under it , and how important it be that we be able to use that oil and gas here in the United Kingdom . in her maiden speech , the hon . member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Naushabah Khan ) pay tribute to Rehman Chishti , and talk about opportunity and the great thing about this country : that people from all background can go on to achieve great thing . that be one of the value that unite we across this House , and I look forward to work with she on that . the new hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) be a vet , and in his maiden speech , he make a reference to take the temperature of people . I be not quite sure what he be refer to , so I google how vet take temperature , and after see the image that Google throw up , I have to say that I will not be ask he to take my temperature any time soon . it would have to be a truly desperate circumstance to require that . we hear a maiden speech from the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) , in which he pay tribute to Dame Tracey Crouch . Chatham be , of course , the home of the Chatham royal dockyard , which build the Royal Navy in the 17th , 18th and 19th century . that be a piece of history that I be sure she be very proud of . my hon . friend the Member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) be also not make her maiden speech . she express support for local school and reference one of her predecessor , Sir Nicholas Soames , who stand up for southern railway , a line that also run through my constituency in Croydon . I pay tribute to my hon . friend and to Sir Nicholas for the work they have do to champion commuter . we hear a very important speech from the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , who be in his place . the propose closure of the Grangemouth refinery be an extremely serious matter , both for his constituent and for the country . that refinery represent 14 % of our refining capacity , and I would like to see the Government do more to keep it open , because we certainly need it . I be run out of time , so perhaps my opposite number on the Government Benches , the hon . member for Bridgend ( Chris Elmore ) , can cover the remain three speech . as you have request , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will conclude by congratulate all those who have make maiden speech today . it be clear that the future of this House be in safe hand with such eloquent speaker and such passionate advocate for their constituent . I wish everyone a pleasant conference recess and look forward to see you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and everybody else in October . this will be a good test of my ability to speak quickly as a Welshman . it be fair to say that we have have a very robust and positive debate this afternoon , criss - cross constituency from the north of Scotland all the way to the south coast of England . because I be indeed Welsh , and because the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) be from north Wales , we have have a good coverage of Great Britain one way or another — the only part of the United Kingdom that we be miss be Northern Ireland . we have hear about subject from Christmas tree to Taylor Swift , and have have a wonderful tour of the rich industrial heritage of our country and hear how proud we all be as Members of Parliament to serve our constituent . the theme of the debate have be service : no matter which party we serve in this House , this debate be about try to ensure not only that Sir David Amess ' s legacy be keep , remember and celebrate , but that all of we be in this place to work for our constituent every single day . I pay tribute to all those member who have make maiden speech — it be eight year since mine , which feel like a lifetime ago — and I will try to canter very quickly through what be truly wonderful maiden speech from right across the House . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) for his courage in talk about his family . there be often nothing more difficult in this Chamber than talk about personal experience , and I really do hope that he become the advocate he want to be for people who be disabled to ensure they get the very good care they need not just from this government , but from people across our United Kingdom . it must be say that the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , the new chairman of the ' 22 , will be hope for a quieter period , and I hope he will be serve as the chair from opposition for a long period . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Reading West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) . I have have the privilege of know she and her wife for a number of year . I know what an advocate she will be for her constituent , and I know that she will also be a true champion for people who suffer with Alzheimer ' s . I have be so privileged to work with she over the last few week as we start the work of a new Government . I say to the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) that we do take extreme seriously the point he raise about the Intelligence and Security Committee . I will of course ensure that this piece of work be conclude quickly , particularly now we have resolve the issue about Select Committees . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) that she must have have one of the most hard - work and diligent predecessor in this House . she be my first Chief Whip — I have never be more frightened before a meeting than go in to see Baroness Winterton as a new Member of Parliament . however , I know that my hon . friend will be a true advocate for the city of Doncaster , and I know how hard she will work . I also say to the hon . member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) that he follow an extraordinary member , to whom I send all my wish for his recovery in the month and week ahead . I have a number of meeting with my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) during the time he be a parliamentary candidate , and he have be a really excellent MP to date . I know he will put Bolton on the map , as indeed will my two other colleague from across the city . I thank the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) for his service to our country , and I know what a strong advocate he will be . as a Sir Walter Raleigh nut — I be not sure that be even parliamentary language — I look forward to discussion with he about Sir Walter . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Mid Derbyshire ( Jonathan Davies ) , the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham and my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) — I make no comment on hair — as well as to the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , my hon . friend the Members for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) and for Gillingham and Rainham ( Naushabah Khan ) , the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , my hon . friend the Member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) and the hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) , that I pay tribute to all of they for the positivity they have show in advocate for their constituent and for the personal story they have bring forward as member of this House . the reason for that canter be to enable I to pay tribute to the opening speech in this debate by the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) . on Sir David , I still vividly recall , when I become a father almost four year ago , that Sir David , whom I barely know , quite literally canter up the No Lobby because he have discover I have become a father and he want to give I a note to tell I that there be no great privilege — he be right obviously . it be a memory that have live with I since his death and before . the man be a gentleman , a true parliamentarian and somebody whose memory we should always work to keep alive . I be so pleased to hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s story , include the one that we do not know . I bet there be not many parliamentary candidate who have be adopt under a light — of any sort , I would have think . to conclude , I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the other Deputy Speakers . as a Whip , it be a rare privilege to be able to speak , so I congratulate you on your election to the Deputy Speakership . I be reliably inform by the Under - Secretary of State for Wales , my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , that if 330 new member all take 10 minute each for their maiden , that would be 55 hour of maiden speech . I say in all sincerity that we be all the well for it , because to learn about the rich history of our country be so important in celebrate what be good about this House . the key thing for all new member to understand be that we do work across party , we be all human and we all work together for the betterment of our constituent . I pay tribute to all the staff of this House — civil servant , all our staff , our constituency team , and those in Mr Speaker ' s office — as we rise for the conference recess . I wish colleague successful conference — although , I think some might be a little more jubilant than other — and I look forward to see all member when we return in October . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . UK Shared Prosperity Fund Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to hold my first Adjournment debate in this House . I seek this debate because I be conscious that the forthcoming Budget be rapidly approach and I want to raise with Members and Ministers the issue of the cliff edge for funding of the UK share prosperity fund . any future funding of the UKSPF be of course a matter for the Chancellor , but I would like to use the debate today to discuss the merit of the fund , how we can learn from the experience of implement it over the past few year , particularly in local government , and the approach to local growth fund under the new Labour Government . we know that the Government ' s top mission be to boost economic growth across the UK . it be my firm belief that a new , improved version of the UKSPF could make an important contribution to that while also support local community and boost regeneration effort . I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the hon . member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , for his attendance today ; I know that he care strongly about local growth and support community cohesion , and I look forward to hear his response at the debate ' s conclusion . the UKSPF be introduce as the domestic replacement for the european structural and investment fund after Brexit . the previous funding provide by the Conservative Government do not match the european structural and investment fund but do provide local authority with some devolve funding to support local priority , with particular emphasis on regeneration , business support and skill . the UKSPF begin in December 2022 and be due to end in March 2025 . although it be by no mean perfect , I believe it have have a broadly positive impact and I would like to draw on my own experience as a former Medway council cabinet member responsible for distribute the UKSPF . feedback from Whitehall to official at the council have be that Medway council ' s approach be consider good practice , and hence I be keen that the Minister hear about our experience . I know he be a big supporter of local government and evidence - base policy making , and no doubt he will wish to hear from other member of this House who also have direct experience of the UKSPF . in Medway , we use our UKSPF allocation to support local community group , business and charity , which we consider well place to recognise what their area need in order to thrive . rather than a top - down approach , we ask community what they need and function as the facilitator to make thing happen , use the UKSPF . the feedback we receive be that this approach be empower for local community and bring people together . an SPF network be establish that create a mutually supportive community that lead in later year to joint bid for community project . the UKSPF ' s potential to support broad regeneration effort to revitalise our town centre be significant . in Medway , small pot of money deliver significant economic and social benefit . one of the way I be particularly keen to use the UKSPF be to help our town centre forum host high street event , on the basis that this would bring in thousand of extra visitor and benefit local business . a notable example of this be the Chatham Chinese new year festival , hold early this year in what be now my constituency . I be the big such celebration in the UK outside London and lead to an approximate 25 % increase in footfall on Chatham High Street . the festival be free to attend and see a parade , street food , a market , traditional dancer and martial art masterclasse . the Chatham town centre forum partner with the local chinese association , the shopping centre , Medway Youth Council , and local school and charity to deliver the event . feedback from resident and vendor be unanimously supportive . material purchase use the UKSPF will enable the event to run for future year without further financial support from the council , so the UKSPF will leave a lasting impact . this be important because we want scheme like the UKSPF where possible to deliver long - term benefit . I will briefly turn to a few other way that we use the UKSPF to support long - term improvement in Medway . we offer small feasibility fund — pot of as little as £ 5 , 000 — to help group demonstrate that an idea would work . they could then use that proof of concept to go on to attract funding from other source to make it happen . we help community group , such as the Chatham Intra Cultural Consortium , to transition into a charitable incorporate organisation , or CIO . achieve that new structure mean that it can bid for other source of funding and be less reliant on financial support from the council . that mean it can continue its incredibly important heritage work . help group to get on a more financially sustainable footing be particularly important in the context of year of constrained local government finance . we also use the UKSPF to provide grant to help business to grow by purchase modern technology and equipment . for instance , a gift business specialise in handmade travel keepsake be able to use the grant to invest in a new fibre laser machine , which significantly enhance the business ' s productivity and efficiency , allow it to handle large order . we also fund net zero audits and green grant for local business that want to reduce their operating cost by make their premise more energy - efficient , and we help they get those green certificate that be now need to bid for many contract . do my hon . friend agree how important the SPF be to area , include Truro and Falmouth in Cornwall , that lose their funding under the european regional development fund and the european structural fund when we come out of the EU under Brexit ? do she agree how fundamental it be that there be some sort of replacement fund for that ? I absolutely agree , and I will be make the case for that replacement fund later . I thank my hon . friend for her contribution . in my constituency , more than 30 local business have so far be support under these UKSPF - fund programme to reduce their cost , to grow their business and to contribute to help we reach net zero . we would not be able to do that without this replacement funding for the EU structural fund . I be conscious that in this final funding year the focus of UKSPF spending be on people and skill . it will be important for Ministers and other to assess the impact that these project have on help economically inactive people into good - quality training and work . the example I have give be just a snapshot of how local council across the UK have use the UKSPF . overall , I consider that the UKSPF have work well in my constituency , and I understand that it have work well in other too , which be great to hear . it have deliver the economic growth and regeneration aim that this new Government be commit to boost far . despite those success , there have be challenge with the UKSPF , and it be appropriate that we consider they now , as the exist funding cycle come to a close . broad feedback from local authority to the Local Government Association have highlight a number of issue . the first be short timescale from Whitehall . local authority be give just three month to develop UKSPF investment plan in collaboration with local stakeholder . we need to give people more time to get the right approach and to put more emphasis on long - term strategic planning . the LGA have propose that any future version of the UKSPF consider by the Government should adopt a six to eight - year funding cycle , and I would certainly endorse that approach . we also need to reflect on the impact of single - year funding . the annual funding allocation of the UKSPF often lead to local authority commission service for just 12 month in order to manage the financial risk . for some project , that be perfectly appropriate , but for those local area use the UKSPF for business or skill support , for example , it make it more difficult to address some of the long - term issue and inequality in our community . another issue be central government restriction . the requirement that skill be address in year 3 be an unnecessary restriction . we should trust local authority to collaborate with their local partner in order to address community need without such restriction . I also consider that there be scope to improve and streamline the UKSPF reporting process , which some feedback have indicate be overly bureaucratic . it be of course important that the Government receive assurance that funding have be spend appropriately and use effectively . a fine balance will need to be strike in future . finally , I be aware that there be some delay in get money out the door to local authority to fund agree project . it be important that that , too , be consider by the new Minister for any future approach to local growth funding . I will return to the immediate challenge that we face : the expiration of funding to support the UKSPF at the end of March 2025 . without continued funding of some sort , the type of initiative that I have highlight will struggle to continue or be replicate . I be not aware of any exist funding that would help fill the gap . for long - term service such as business support and employability programme that rely on establish trust and employ staff , the cliff edge be of particular concern . provider be likely to see staff leave as contract get close to their end date , put at risk effort to support business and help people get back into work and stay in good , stable employment . for those reason , I join with the LGA to urge the Minister to work with the Chancellor to include an additional one year of flexible revenue funding for the UKSPF in the forthcoming Budget . the LGA have suggest that such funding should equate to the value of year 3 of the UKSPF programme . I ask the Minister to consider that as part of his discussion with the Chancellor . do so would remove the immediate cliff edge and give Ministers time to consider what the new Government ' s approach to local growth fund should be . as I have set out , I consider that long term allocation be need alongside a more flexible and light - touch national framework that support even great local decision making . that would also give time to assess the full output of the UKSPF and what improvement can be make for a future replacement fund . I be pleased to say that the outcome achieve by Medway council already exceed those set out in the original UKSPF investment plan submit to whitehall some year ago . that datum , alongside datum from lot of other local authority , should be available to Ministers and could provide a valuable steer on what approach prove successful and what do not work . I be really confident that by learn from the past and work in partnership with local government to deliver a more flexible , long - term funding scheme , the new Government could provide a real boost to local economy and community that go beyond far beyond anything that we have see in the current UKSPF funding cycle . it be a pleasure to respond on behalf of the Government to the excellent speech of my hon . friend the Member for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) . I be conscious that when I speak in closing for the Government yesterday , my contribution last an unlikely 48 minute . I be delighted — not least because my voice be a little on the cusp — that the rule of the House will prevent such a reoccurrence . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure the debate and on the strength of the case she make . it be clear from what she have say just now and previously — I be similarly grateful for the question she ask I at oral question last week — how strongly she feel about the UK share prosperity fund as well as the work she do in Medway and the impact she make with the fund . there be clearly an awful lot to learn from the Medway example , and I look forward to do that when we meet again shortly after the conference recess . I be grateful to the Minister for give way and to my hon . friend the Member for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) for secure this really important debate . Scotland have be a beneficiary of the share prosperity fund to the tune of £ 212 million since 2022 , over £ 70 million of which have come to my home city of Glasgow . do the Minister agree that that be a demonstration of the Union dividend , which Scotland and the nation and region of the United Kingdom enjoy by be part of this Union ? do he far agree that the share prosperity fund be an important vehicle for bring equity to the region and nation of the United Kingdom ? my hon . friend make an important point . the United Kingdom Government be ambitious for growth across all of the United Kingdom . Ours be a four - nation commitment , and we look forward to work closely with colleague in Scotland , in all strand of local growth funding , to ensure that people across Scotland — and in Wales and Northern Ireland — get the benefit of growth and that dividend of which he speak . on the particular point about the UK share prosperity fund , I agree on its effectiveness and will talk about its future , as I know colleague be keen for I to do . I too thank my hon . friend the Member for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) for introduce this important debate . council across the country , include in Derbyshire , have face appalling cut over the last decade , and the UKSPF have be one of the few point of light in what have be a very dark decade for local authority . I warmly welcome the new Government ' s commitment to offer council a three - year funding settlement , but can I encourage the Minister to lobby the Treasury to see what more it can do for local authority , because the important service they provide be on the cusp of be inaccessible to people ? my hon . friend make an important point about the health of local government . like many colleague , I be a veteran of local government , and I be very conscious of the pressure it be under . as we design a new model for local growth , I be also conscious that local authority will be at the heart of make it effective . if they do not have the capacity because of those pressure , that will be a limit factor on our success , and I be very mindful of that . I have see at first hand the good work that the UKSPF have do in my constituency , and I appreciate why there be such interest in its future . it have help to support organisation that be address unemployment and provide training , such as the Bestwood Partnership and Evolve , which have make a huge difference to our community . it have also back community project such as the Kimberley community garden , allow its member to redevelop their site and continue important community outreach work . so I understand very strongly why there be such interest in the fund . as my hon . friend the Member for Rochester and Strood say , future funding be a matter for the Chancellor and the Budget — of course , we have the ongoing spending review , and the budget on 30 October . I appreciate the frustration that come with that answer , but I be afraid that that be where we be at the moment . however , that do not prevent I from address a number of the point that my hon . Friend make . it be one of the beauty of the electoral cycle and of our democracy that a change election bring in colleague with a lot of different experience . my hon . friend talk about the impact that the £ 3 . 3 million from the UKSPF have have in Medway and about what she do to design the work involve , and I be keen to learn from that . it be good to hear how the funding have support growth in high street and town , increase footfall , support local business and regeneration in the town centre of Chatham , Rainham and Gillingham , and address local challenge and , crucially , opportunity alongside community leader . it have also support project such as Emerge Advocacy , which support young people struggle with their mental health , and Mutual Aid Road Reps , which be form during the covid pandemic to combat loneliness and isolation . those hugely significant project reach people who be often the hard to reach , and the UKSPF have back they . similarly , and very attractively , as my hon . Friend say , the fund have make sure that there have be great event in Medway , such as the chinese new year festival , Easter celebration , heritage awareness event and the Intra Lateral art festival . there be lot of great thing , and the model in Medway show that put local people in charge and let they set local priority yield great result , include a significant increase in town centre footfall and a great sense of community . when my hon . Friend say Medway be a model , there be a lot of evidence for that , and I look forward to hear about it . my query be about the current version of the share prosperity fund . some of the capital project go on at the moment be time - limit to the end of March . some will not be finish by then , but local authority be rush to complete they and spend more money because they be worried that some of it — the current money , not the future money — could be claw back . will the Minister confirm that that will not be an issue with those exist project and that that money will not be claw back , so those project can be complete ? I be grateful for that intervention . as my hon . friend know , I have inherit 15 , 16 or 17 strand of local growth funding , all at different stage , with the decision make , in many case , many year ago . we be try to make the most sense of they and get the good value out of they . with regard to the project she mention , I encourage my hon . friend to help her local project to engage with my official , so that they can give clarity on precisely what the timeline be in the context of what may well be discuss as part of the Budget . I be very happy to work with she to make sure that that happen . turn to some of the challenge to the UKSPF mention by my hon . friend the Member for Rochester and Strood , we have to start with the future of the programme . local authority , right hon . and hon . member , and organisation across the country that deliver project have rightly be seek clarity on what come next . my mailbag be very full , and we be give the matter full consideration . we recognise the hard work undertake — it be important that that be state from the Dispatch Box — and we recognise the challenge that time pose . organisation traditionally fund in annual cycle constantly have to put hard - work member of staff on 90 - day redundancy notice . that put pressure on people who then perhaps seek other work , because it do not suit they and their life — and why would it ? we understand that those cliff edge be not a good thing . they be at the forefront of our mind as we think about the future . I , too , congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rochester and Strood on secure this debate and thank she for do so . this be such an important moment . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) about the importance of the UK share prosperity fund for his area . I be really glad to welcome the Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , to my constituency during the general election campaign , where she see the need for that funding . Fife have benefit greatly from more than £ 13 million from the fund in recent year . in my constituency , that include project such as Step On , which be run by LinkLiving with Raith Rovers Community Foundation . it provide target help for young people to improve their mental health . order . I remind member that intervention must be short . it also help employability and , crucially , access to work . do the Minister agree that such cross - uk funding be hugely important for area like mine , where inequality be an issue ? I be very grateful for that intervention . I think I can probably speak for most colleague when I say that the general election be , in many regard , quite a tricky one this time , but one of the few source of joy be my right hon . friend , the Deputy Prime Minister ' s battle bus , which seem to reach admirable distance up and down the country , include to Fife . I know , from have speak to she , how much she enjoy that visit . the model my hon . friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) mention be a great example of the impact be make on people ' s life across Fife and in many different part of the UK . we be very mindful of that . I want to address the challenge mention by my hon . friend the Member for Rochester and Strood . she start with timescale . certainly , the tiny run - in in year one be not an example of good practice , and be something we would always seek to avoid . I do not think that the Government of the day think it be a good idea , but I think they rather find themselves a victim of circumstance . we absolutely hear that point . my hon . Friend mention the Local Government Association ' s desire for a six to eight - year funding window . again , I understand that very well . I have to say that that be quite challenging . government generally budget on a three - year cycle and often decision be make on a one - year cycle . we have talk about want to give more certainty and a long time period . I can not commit to six to eight year , but I can commit to that principle . she mention the impact of single - year funding , and as I say , we very much understand that . on my hon . friend ' s point about central restriction and monitoring , that be one of the point on which the new Government intend to diverge from the old one . my view be that we need to give community up and down the UK the tool and resource to use their expertise to improve their community within the framework set by the Prime Minister and his mission for the country . they be the expert in this case , not Ministers . we want a light touch on monitoring , and we want to be less directive on what the funding be for . UKSPF be actually a very good example of that , relative to other local growth funding , but I hear some of the challenge on that . they be important design challenge that I think we can engineer out as part of any future local growth funding programming . our model of local growth be reflect in the conversation we have have with local authority and community up and down the country . we know there be a desire to move to a more allocative settlement , with few beauty parade and a strong focus on deprivation and need . we know there be a real desire for a light touch on monitoring , which can become a cottage industry in itself , and that be our view , too . growth be at the heart of the thing that will shape our future and growth . with local growth funding , the clue will be in the name . we want to ensure that the project choose by local community drive growth . of course , we must see the fiscal picture in the context of the inheritance leave by the last government . this morning my hon . friend pen an article on a well - know labour - lean blog , and what I take from that be the mutual desire of this Government and local government to reset the relationship to make it a well partnership , and to drive well outcome . that will , I think , lead we to a more positive place . if local authority be in the room and fully engage , they may be able to use their creativity to combine fund with other funding stream , so that the money can go far . the shared prosperity fund have be a good model , but we will make change , particularly in relation to short - term timescale and reduce some of the burden . I have mention the importance of reset the relationship with local government . notwithstanding what we will be discuss on 30 October , those principle will guide everything we do to promote local growth . we , as a Government , be commit to growth across the United Kingdom . we be elect on a manifesto that stress the need to adopt a partnership approach with local authority and an intention to stabilise the funding system , and we be go to do that . we be work closely with local authority , stakeholder , the Scottish Parliament , the Senedd and the Northern Ireland Executive and will continue to do so , to ensure that there be a smooth transition to a new funding regime . I look forward to visit Northern Ireland on Monday to talk far to colleague who be interested in the UKSPF . my hon . friend be rightly seek certainty . I know that they want that as soon as possible , and we have at least a bit of a pathway towards it , because , as always , important announcement will be make in the Budget statement and the ongoing spending review will shape the future . we hear the strong message that my hon . friend have convey . it have be brilliant to hear about the excellent work do in Medway and in other part of the country , and I be keen to work with colleague as we go forward to shape local growth funding . question put and agree to . House adjourn .