prayer the Clerk at the table have inform the House of the unavoidable absence of the Speaker from this day ' s sit , the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Organised Crime what step he be take to help reduce level of organise crime . what step he be take to help reduce level of organise crime . what step he be take to help reduce level of organise crime . we will continue to break the business model of organise crime gang to keep the people of this country safe . we be disrupt their activity both domestically in the UK and internationally , include disrupt the work of the gang behind the illegal small - boat crossing , and it be why the Criminal Justice Bill create new power to target organise criminal gang . we will also publish a new serious and organised crime strategy soon . criminal gang do not care about the people they be smuggle into our country and they must be stop . we must stop the boat in way that be consistent with our international obligation and end the dangerous journey that risk human life . do my right hon . friend agree that we must focus on break the business model of these criminal gang ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the people who be be smuggle be see as just product ; they be expendable in the eye of the people smuggler , and we must and will do everything we can to break their business model . I commend the work of my right hon . friend the Minister for Immigration , who have recently be to Bulgaria , where in close co - operation with our international partner there we have seize boat and engine . we be break the business model , and we will continue to drive down those illegal small - boat crossing until we have stop the boat . serious organise acquisitive crime be hit rural community hard , with high - value agricultural equipment target for theft . the National Rural crime unit have recently recover over £ 5 million of steal equipment , nearly £ 1 million of which be recover abroad . the Construction Plant - hire Association , NFU Mutual and the Construction Equipment Association have put significant fund into the nrcu but what more can my right hon . friend do to ensure that it have the resource it need to tackle these serious organise criminal gang ? I thank my hon . friend for the work he have do in this area , include with his private member ' Bill . he be absolutely right that the rural community of this country need to be support , and they will be . drive down rural crime be an important area of work and we have provide £ 200 , 000 of funding to help set up the nrcu . my hon . friend and I , and other in this House , understand the terrible impact this have , and we will continue to work with the rural police force to drive down rural crime . in Burnley and right across Lancashire county line continue to be a problem , with organise group peddle drug and exploit young people with no regard for the harm they be do , not just to the community but to the young people they be exploit . Lancashire police be make very good inroad with an enhance rural policing unit and neighbourhood taskforce , but what more can Lancashire Constabulary do to tackle the county line issue and bring order back to our street ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight this vile type of criminality , which target the young and the most vulnerable . as part of our fight against county line we be invest up to £ 145 million in our county line programme , and since it be launch in 2019 police activity have result in over 4 , 700 county line be close , over 14 , 800 arrest and over 7 , 200 safeguard referral . we will keep our focus on this evil criminality . give that , shockingly , the average time it take for a crime to be charge have treble since 2016 , will the Secretary of State embrace the Police Federation ' s " Simplify DG6 " campaign and scrap the redaction rule his Government introduce in 2020 , in order to cut bureaucracy , get case to the Crown Prosecution Service quick , and free up officer ' time to be out fight crime ? we be actively work with the CPS to simplify and speed up this process . I will of course look at the proposal put forward , because we want police officer out in their community on the beat and tackle crime , rather than do paperwork — important though that be . the police report a 25 % increase in shoplift in recent month . there be much evidence , as the Home Secretary will be aware , that organise criminal gang go into shop to try to steal as much as they can and target shop worker . as we approach Christmas , what assurance can the Home Secretary provide to shop worker — not just at Christmas , but across the year — that he will start deal with these gang and start realise that all retail crime be a problem in this country that need tackle ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to highlight this issue . it be one that we take seriously through Operation Pegasus . we be work through the leadership of the police and crime commissioner for Sussex on this very issue . no doubt either the Policing Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) or I will have the opportunity to update the House on this work as it progress . I call the shadow Minister . this autumn , the Government pledge to treat retail crime as organised crime , but with their Criminal Justice Bill , they have fall at the first hurdle . there be no consolidated offence to protect retail worker , no strong signal on the £ 200 limit on investigation and a denial of reality on their hollowing out of neighbourhood policing . from the answer we have hear , the Home Secretary want we to believe that we have never have it so good , but the one who be thrive be organise criminal . will the Government accept our amendment to add the protection of shop worker into the legislation ? the hon . Gentleman will know that attack shop worker be already a statutory aggravating factor . we will look at what more we can do to protect shop worker . the retail action plan be in place , include the use of CCTV and facial recognition software . we will continue to explore all avenue to protect shopworker , because they , like everyone else , deserve our protection . Illegal Migration : Small Boats what progress he have make on stop small boat transport migrant across the english channel . what progress he have make on stop small boat transport migrant across the english channel . so far this year , we have reduce the number of these dangerous , illegal and completely unnecessary crossing by more than a third compare with last year , despite increase of nearly a third in Europe . nevertheless , the number of illegal arrival remain unacceptably high . we remain focused on deliver our comprehensive plan to stop the boat by break the business model of the people smuggler , and we will shortly be pilot emergency legislation through this House to ensure that flight to Rwanda take off as a matter of urgency . figure on Thursday reveal that immigration to the UK be skyrocket . be it not time to realise that those well - intentione international treaty and convention agree 70 year ago be no long fit for purpose ? we simply can not accommodate all those who would qualify for asylum under exist rule . the world be face troubled time and more mass migration . will my right hon . friend assure I that he will do all he can to raise the bar for those migrating or seek asylum here and look at other solution to stop people leave their homeland , so that those country can make well future for themselves without the loss of so many of their young ? much of Europe be in a dire state because of mass immigration . we can not let the United Kingdom go the same way . my hon . friend make a strong point . while some of those come here to claim asylum have genuine ground for asylum , many be economic migrant make spurious claim to game the system . for some nationality , our grant rate be out of sync with european country , and that be why we have undertake extensive work to lower they . for example , the grant rate for Albanians reduce from 53 % in June last year to 19 % in June this year , and it have fall far since , as that remain unacceptably high . last month , we add India and Georgia to the list of safe state to speed up the process of return people who have travel from those country to the United Kingdom illegally . clearly there be more work to be do , and we do not want to create any additional pull factor to the United Kingdom . in relation to the Rwanda policy , the Home Secretary be quote as say : " my frustration be that we have allow the narrative to be create that this be the be - all and end - all " of government policy . do the Minister agree with the Home Secretary ? if he do , what be the Government ' s policy on combat the boat and resist illegal migration , and what be our policy ? when my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and I set out our comprehensive plan this time last year , it have many facet , one of which — an extremely important component of which — be our Rwanda plan , but that be not its only element , and we have work intensively over the last 12 month on each and every other facet of that plan . opposition Members jeer , but be that plan work ? yes , it be . we can see that from the fact that we be almost the only country in Europe where the number of illegal entrant be fall . it have fall by more than a third , compare to a 30 % increase in the rest of Europe and almost a 100 % increase in Italy . none of that negate the importance of interject a further critical deterrent . that be the crucial element of the Rwanda scheme . the difference between those of we on the Government Benches and the opposition be that , frankly , they do not want to stop the boat , and they do not have the stomach to do a policy like Rwanda . I call the shadow Minister . since the previous Home Secretary be remove from her post , I think it be fair to say that the Immigration Minister have become a law unto himself . first , he brief the medium that he have be instruct the Prime Minister to tear up all our legal obligation to fix the unfixable Rwanda policy . then he set himself on a collision course with his new Home Secretary by appear to bet the house on the Rwanda flight take off . to add insult to injury , he go behind his new boss ' s back to present his laundry list to the Prime Minister , include a cap on social care visa and abolish the shortage occupation list . do the Immigration Minister have any respect whatsoever for the authority of the new Home Secretary ? give that he be say to be on resignation watch , will he confirm that he will resign if his proposal be reject ? once again , we hear absolutely nothing from the Opposition about what they would actually do . the sad truth be that they have complete disdain for the british public . they do not appreciate that the public that we be send here to represent demand that we reduce the level of both legal and illegal migration . the Home Secretary and I will do absolutely everything in our power to achieve that . we be work closely with the Prime Minister , and we will set out further plan in due course . but the public watch the debate should be very clear : if they share our determination to tackle small boat or to reduce the number arrive in this country legally , they have only the Conservative Party to support . I call the SNP spokesman . last week , a woman and a man die while attempt to cross the channel in a small boat ; other in their group be hospitalise for hypothermia . despite the clear risk , over 400 people in nine boat be detect cross the channel in the past seven day . they clearly feel there be no other choice . the lack of safe and legal route be put people at risk . will the Immigration Minister consider a humanitarian visa , as the Red Cross have recommend ? all of we across the House abhor the death of individual in the channel , and we be work closely with the french authority to investigate the circumstance of those individual ’ death . but those individual , like anyone seek to cross the channel , be come from a place of evident safety . they be depart from France . they be in absolutely no danger . they be in a country with a fully function asylum system of its own . there be no excuse for those people break into our country , put themselves in the hand of people smuggler . we should be unite in try to deter that . on the hon . Lady ' s second question about safe and legal route to the UK , she know that we have issue more than half a million humanitarian visa since 2015 — more than at any time in the history of this country . if she want to do more , after the debate she should go straight back to the SNP Government and ask they to pull their weight and provide more safe space for asylum seeker and refugee back in Scotland . the Minister be deflect quite a lot . [ interruption . ] Government member would do well to listen because their system be not work ; they be fail people every single day . in the first nine month of 2023 , a mere 279 Afghans arrive in the UK by safe and legal route . for each one , 17 Afghans come across on small boat . today , the Independent have lay out the story of a mother of four — an afghan special force soldier who serve in a unit set up by Britain , train and pay for by the british armed service — whose application under the afghan relocation and assistance policy be deny , along with many other from commando force 333 and afghan territorial force 444 . why be the Minister fail so many Afghans ? we do not encourage anyone , whatever their circumstance , to come across illegally in a small boat . that be a criminal offence and it should not be encourage . we have support nearly 25 , 000 people to come from Afghanistan since the end of the war , which compare extremely favourably to other european country . we have issue more than half a million humanitarian visa , which be a record we should all be proud of . the Scottish National party always want to make the UK out to be a small country , but that be not correct . the United Kingdom be a big - hearted country , and one of the world lead country for resettlement — order . we have be here 20 minute and have cover only two question . we have a huge amount of business to get through , so can we please go fast ? I would like brief question and brief answer . defend Democracy Taskforce what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of the Defending Democracy Taskforce in prevent foreign interference in the UK ' s democratic integrity . it be a great pleasure to tell the hon . Lady that the defend Democracy Taskforce , which be set up under the National Security Council , have be operate for about a year and be work closely with parliamentary authority , devolve Administrations and local authority around the country , alongside intelligence agency , the police and opposite number from various party . it have already update many individual across the House on different way in which we can improve our own security and make sure that this country ' s democracy be safe . the fundamental way to protect our democracy be to get involve , so I urge anyone watch to join a party — any party , but particularly the conservative party — and get involve in politic , to keep the United Kingdom Government work for the people of the United Kingdom . give the huge importance of prevent foreign interference in our democracy , do the Minister agree that , for the purpose of transparency , Lord Cameron should declare all previous contact with , and money earn from , foreign government after he leave the office of Prime Minister and before he be appoint Foreign Secretary ? the hon . Lady raise an interesting point on how we keep our politic accountable . rule be set out by this House , the other place , the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority and various other people on how we account for expense , money raise and various form of connection . she be right that those record must be keep up to date . the Prime Minister expect every Minister to do that , and I be very confident that the new Foreign Secretary — whom I congratulate — have do so . I call the shadow Minister . the defend Democracy Taskforce have an important remit to defend our country and protect our sovereignty . give the threat we face , it be vital that rapid progress be make . however , some matter require immediate attention . can the Minister give an assurance that both the Three - Vodafone merger and the future ownership of the Daily Telegraph will be look at , not just through the economic prism of competition but in accordance with the National Security and Investment Act 2021 ? this be the first time that I have face the hon . gentleman across the Dispatch Box — last time we be side by side , so this be a bit of change . he raise some interesting and important point . the National Security and Investment Act be pass a little over a year ago , and the Deputy Prime Minister himself chair the body that advise on it . that be incredibly important because , as we know , foreign ownership and control be a vital area of foreign influence in our government and society . that be why we be look not just at that , but at how the foreign medium today be not just traditional medium — some of whom we see represent up in the Press Gallery ; some of they be even wave . social medium be now so important too . it be worth note the recent Ofcom report that about a third of under - 25s get their news from TikTok , which as we know have its algorithm write by individual under the control of a foreign state — one that be not always friendly . student : Temporary Visas for Dependants what assessment he have make of the potential merit of provide temporary visa to the dependant of visit student and academic when the dependant be live in conflict zone . there be a number of route in the immigration rule allow dependant to join family member in the United Kingdom . where possible , people seek to flee conflict zone should use those exist route . in the past 12 month , we have allow over 112 , 000 people to arrive under safe and legal route , include over 6 , 000 family reunion case . my constituent be on a student visa at St Andrews University . on 7 October , her five - year - old daughter be in northern Gaza stay with her grandmother . they have since have to flee south . we have have good engagement from the student policy team , but will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can reunify the family ? I be very happy to look into the case with the hon . Lady . as a general rule , we believe migration should not be the first lever we pull in the event of humanitarian crisis . we should be use the UK ' s diplomatic muscle , our overseas development aid , as the primary way in which the UK can have the great impact in the world , but there be always case where we make exception . last week ' s net migration figure be completely unacceptable to the people of Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke , which be why the New Conservatives , helpfully , have a 12 - point plan that the Minister for Immigration could copy and paste to ensure we get those figure down . will he extend the closure of the student dependant route to student enrol on a one - year research master ' s degree ? first , we believe that the level of legal migration into this country be far too high . that have very profound impact on access to public service , the productivity of our economy , and the ability of the UK to be a socially cohesive and united country . that be why we need to take action . we have already announce a specific policy with respect to dependant , which come into force at the beginning of next year . we think it will have a substantive impact on the level of net migration , but , as the Prime Minister say , we be keep all option under review and will take further action as require . Asylum Seeker Accommodation what progress his Department have make on move asylum seeker from hotel into less costly accommodation . for the first time since the small boat crisis begin , we be now close asylum hotel , thank to the good work do to reduce arrival by more than a third ; to the delivery of more appropriate form of accommodation , such as on large disuse military site ; and to well management of the exist permanent estate . I be pleased to report that the Home Office be make good progress on the first 50 hotel , which will exit by the end of January . we will be bring forward a further tranche shortly . I thank my right hon . friend for his reply . on behalf of constituent who have ask I , can he please go far and give a more definite date for the start and completion of the decant of asylum seeker at the Newton Park Hotel in South Derbyshire ? when I first take this job , I be clear that the use of asylum hotel be completely unacceptable and that I would work with all in Government to ensure that we close each and every one of they as quickly as possible . we be now in the process of close those hotel . as I say in my opening remark , the first 50 be close seamlessly , so I expect to be in a position to announce the next set of hotel closure very soon . surely if asylum seeker have the right to work they would be able to pay for their own accommodation at little or no cost to the taxpayer . no , I completely disagree with the hon . Gentleman . it be extremely important that we reduce the pull factor to the United Kingdom . there be already plenty of reason why economic migrant would want to make a life in the UK . enable they to work as soon as they arrive here would only exacerbate those problem . I be really pleased that the Government have be able to reduce the number of asylum seeker in hotel . the use of the Atlantic Hotel in Chelmsford for family be put considerable pressure on our school place , especially as Chelmsford be already very short of school place due to the large number of people who have arrive from Ukraine and elsewhere . will the Minister look again at the policy and ensure that when people with child of school age be place in hotel , they be put in place where there be school that have place ? my right hon . friend and I have discuss this many time , and I want to ensure that that particular hotel be close as quickly as possible , because it be have such an impact on her local community . the Home Office be work with her local authority , and we have make a commitment that we will not place further young people , or family with young people , in that hotel if school place be not readily available . however , I hope that the hotel itself will close very soon . when asylum seeker require medical care be move to a new location out of area , they go to the bottom of the waiting list , and as a result their health requirement be not meet in a timely way . how will the Minister ensure that they do not slip back from receive medical care that they urgently require ? when move asylum seeker from one form of accommodation to another , we make provision to ensure that there be support for those with the most serious medical condition , but it be important that we be able to move individual around the estate , and we be currently in the process of closing hotel . that be our no . 1 priority , because the public want we to close they as quickly as possible . Illegal Migration what step he be take to tackle illegal migration . what step he be take to tackle illegal migration . the Government have a plan to tackle illegal migration by mean of a number of method , and that plan be work . small - boat crossing be down compare with those in other country across Europe , where they be up . we be work closely with our international partner , include our near geographical neighbour France , we be dismantle the organise criminal gang who be smuggle people , and we be take action to reform the asylum system . follow the Supreme Court ruling , the Government announce emergency legislation to address the issue mention in the judgment . I welcome the propose new treaty with Rwanda , but do my right hon . friend agree that the new legislation promise by the Prime Minister must be clear and unambiguous in establish that the sovereign will of this Parliament , as express in primary legislation , take legal precedence over the interpretation of international treaty and principle ? I can assure my hon . friend that the excellent work relationship we have with Rwanda — on which I work in my former role — will give we the opportunity to have a treaty that address the issue in the Supreme Court judgment . however , she be right to say that the legislation that will accompany that treaty must make it absolutely clear that the will of the british people , as exemplify by the action of this government , mean we will work to get flight to Rwanda to make it plain that if people come here illegally they will not stay here . I can give she my commitment that we will do everything we can to make that happen . far to those point , will my right hon . friend give I a categorical assurance that he will do everything he can to enable we to deliver the Rwanda policy , and will introduce all the necessary legal exemption so that we can get on with those flight as soon as possible and provide the necessary deterrence to illegal migration ? the Rwanda scheme be an extremely important part of our basket of response . I will do everything to ensure that we drive down small - boat arrival : that be the promise we have make to the british people , and that be the commitment I will deliver . one of the way of deal with illegal migration be to look at the number of case . can the Home Secretary say how many legacy backlog case there be — if they have yet be triaged — and how many of those result from illegal migration ? the historic backlog have be reduce by 65 % . it have fall by more than 59 , 000 case since the end of November 2022 . we have recruit 2 , 500 asylum decision maker , and we have increase tenfold the pace at which these decision be make . the Secretary of State be well aware that under international law an asylum seeker can not be describe as an illegal immigrant . they be here legally unless and until they be find to have no valid claim to asylum after due process . be it the policy of the Home Office and this Government to act within international law or to act outwith it ? the hon . Gentleman make reference to the refugee convention , but his definition be only accurate if they come directly from a place of danger . I have visit France and it be a wonderful country . I can assure the House that it be not a dangerous country . violence against Women and girl what step he be take to tackle violence against woman and girl . in the last three year we have pass comprehensive new law cover everything from domestic abuse and street harassment to online safety . last year the Government add violence against woman to the strategic policing requirement , place it on equivalent footing to terrorism , and the Home Office ' s award - win enough campaign be now enter its final phase with a firm focus on tackle perpetrator behaviour be roll out across college and university . I welcome my hon . friend to her place . I pay tribute to Sandra Conte and her team at Future live in Hertford for everything they do to support victim of domestic abuse . as a magistrate , I specialise in domestic abuse court and I be utterly convinced of their value , both for justice and for victim . will my hon . friend share her assessment of the initiative to increase specialisation in court process for sexual offending and sexual violence ? the specialist sexual violence support project be now under way in Crown court in Leeds , Newcastle and Snaresbrook . it be at an early stage but be due to report in early 2025 . however , my hon . friend should be aware that any victim of rape or sexual assault may now take advantage of section 28 procedure , which have be roll out nationwide to allow people to give their evidence privately and ahead of trial . we be also engage close to 1 , 000 independent sexual violence adviser in the system to accompany victim every step of the way through the criminal justice system . as a result , rape prosecution be high today than they be in 2010 and sentence be approximately 50 % long . can the Minister tell I how many force be still not provide domestic abuse training to their officer ? I do not have that answer . I will have to go back to the Home Office and write to the hon . member . I call the shadow Minister . it be a privilege to take on this important role . I pass on my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) for her dedication and commitment . I be look forward to get to work . a shocking new study have find that domestic abuser be control the finance of more than 5 million woman in the UK . this can not be allow to continue . the Government have turn a blind eye to this issue for more than a decade , so what step be the Minister take today to tackle economic abuse ? the hon . Lady and I have work together a lot on domestic abuse since we be elect . she will know that economic abuse be basically a derivative of coercive control , which Clare Wade KC , in her review of domestic homicide , say underpin almost all domestic abuse . tomorrow the Criminal Justice Bill have its Second reading in the House . the Bill will see serious coercive control offence place under the multi - agency public protection arrangement and offender place on the violent sexual and terrorist offender register . Rwanda Relocation Scheme : Supreme Court Judgment what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of the Supreme Court judgment of 15 November 2023 on the Rwanda relocation scheme . the Rwanda scheme remain an important part of our response to illegal migration and people smuggle . we will continue to negotiate with the Government of Rwanda on a treaty that will be underpin by domestic law so that the Rwanda scheme will join the other effective part of our response in stop the boat . the Prime Minister have indicate his intention to override the Supreme Court by introduce emergency law and a new treaty with Rwanda to save his unlawful deportation plan . so far , the UK have pay the Rwanda Government £ 140 million and the Home Office have spend £ 1 . 4 million on fail legal challenge , with no asylum seeker be send there as of yet . how much have the Home Office spend in total on the Rwanda scheme ? can the Secretary of State give we a figure , please ? the funding from the Home Office will be report in the usual , appropriate way . I do not have the figure to hand , but I will make sure the House be update on the cost . the hon . Gentleman seem to misunderstand how one respond to a legal judgment . he describe it as " override , " but I suggest that when the Government address the issue set down by the Supreme Court , they will not be override but respect the voice of the Supreme Court . I would make the point that we be committed to deal with illegal migrant . I hear no such commitment from the Opposition . until they come up with clear plan for how they will deal with this issue , they should support the action the Government be actually take . have the Home Secretary be strike , as I have , by the very small number of Opposition Members stand to contribute to question on migration ? do he agree that , if democracy both within the EU and , like ourselves , outside the EU can not find a solution to this problem , we will see the increase emergence of far - right politician in position of power ? that ought to frighten we all . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . this Government be criticise by the opposition and by voice across the continent when we start to take action to address the significant increase in the volume of illegal migration . country across the continent be now look at we in order to emulate the action we be take . illegal migration have go from something that the Labour party believe be a non - issue to be a core issue for government across Europe and North America . if the good people do not grip this issue , the bad people will attempt to do so , and I will never let that happen . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . the Home Affairs Committee have take a particular interest in small - boat crossing . we produce a report last year that I suggest the new Home Secretary might want to look at . we have also visit France and Belgium this year . owe to our interest and expertise in this area , will the Home Secretary consider give the Home Affairs Committee and the Joint Committee on Human Rights the opportunity to carry out pre - legislative scrutiny of any emergency legislation that he plan to bring forward ? there be an urgency to the legislation that we seek to put forward and , although pre - legislative scrutiny have a part to play , I will not do anything that delay the implementation of this incredibly important legislation . it be imperative if we be to crack the business model of the evil people smuggler that we operationalise the Rwanda scheme . may I register my profound conviction that the disapplication of element of the european convention on human right and the refugee convention will be necessary ? the Court of Appeal cite human right and the Supreme Court cite refoulement . what will it be next time , in the absence of Parliament expressly assert the will of this House ? my right hon . friend make an incredibly important point , although I do not want to prejudge the content of the Bill . I listen carefully to his point , and he and the rest of the House should understand that we will do everything we can to ensure that we break the business model of the evil people smuggler he highlight and drive down the small - boat arrival . he be absolutely right that the deterrent effect of the Rwanda scheme be a key element of that multi - strand approach . Police Funding Formula what progress his Department have make on review the police funding formula . I thank my hon . friend for his question . he be a tireless campaigner on this issue . I completely accept the need for a new police funding formula . we have be work on it extremely hard , with colleague across government . I hope to have something furth to say on the topic shortly , but in the meantime we be get as much money as we can to frontline policing . this year , we have an extra £ 550 million go to frontline policing and £ 330 million go to support the police pay rise , which make £ 880 million extra for police this year . I be most grateful to my right hon . friend for that answer . nevertheless , it be concern that Suffolk police be promise draft proposal for the review back in January . I urge he to get those to our local force as quickly as possible and , in the meantime , to work with it to improve the number of out - of - court disposal , where well delivery will relieve pressure on those in the force , who be work incredibly hard . they be indeed work incredibly hard . I be delighted to tell the House that Suffolk police currently have 1 , 425 officer , which be more than at any time in their history , and they have that in common with England and Wales as a whole . I support what my hon . Friend say about out - of - court disposal , which have an important role to play , particularly in treat drug and alcohol addiction , and mental health issue . I will work with Suffolk and other force to make sure that those be widely use . since 2010 , neighbourhood policing , where officer be embed in local community , have be decimate , despite its huge advantage . we therefore desperately need the repeatedly promise reform of the police funding formula . however , one of the quick way in which the Government can get cash to police force for neighbourhood policing be by reform the proceed of Crime Act 2002 rule so that more of the money be hand to the police force that confiscate it . will the Minister meet I to discuss the matter far ? I would be happy to discuss poca with the hon . Gentleman and other colleague . however , there be something of a definitional confusion on this question about neighbourhood policing , because there be local police officer who work on response team and should be count as well . in 2015 , the year the opposition keep refer to , there be 61 , 083 officer in local policing role , whereas there be now 67 , 785 . that be a much high number , and overall we have a record number of officer across England and Wales — 149 , 566 . that be more than there ever be under the last Labour Government . rise — we must move now to topical question . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . my mission and that of this Government , on behalf of all people in this country , be to secure our border and keep people safe from crime and terrorism . good progress have be make in drive down crime and stop illegal small - boat arrival , but there be , of course , more to do . the Home Office have be consider further measure to mitigate migration , include by prevent the exploitation and manipulation of our visa system and clamp down on those who take unwarranted advantage of the flexibility we provide . we will announce further detail on these measure in due course . tomorrow , we have second reading of the Criminal Justice Bill , which will give police the power they need for long sentence for those who would harm other and will increase the trust in police . in my constituency , the antisocial and illegal use of firework continue to affect law - abide citizen and our pet . will the Secretary of State commit to reduce the legal limit for commercial firework from 120 dB to 90 db or less ? I have not yet have the opportunity to read into that issue — it be not the angle I be expect in this question — but the proposal seem a thoughtful one . I will give it due consideration , but I can not make a commitment at this point . off - road bike be a grow plague across Hartlepool , and my constituent face the danger of young man in balaclavas drive recklessly along our street . will my right hon . friend commit to increase the support for Cleveland police to tackle this nuisance , beyond the anonymous tip - off system ? will he also perhaps come to visit some of the excellent conservative mp in our region ? I would be delighted to do that , and I support her call . to achieve precisely the objective my hon . friend describe , from April next year — in just a few month — every police force in the country will receive substantial funding commitment to conduct antisocial behaviour hotspot patrol , include against the scourge of off - road biking that she mention . in force where pilot scheme have be try , include those in Essex , Lancashire and Staffordshire , we have see reduction in antisocial behaviour of up to 30 % . I call the shadow Home Secretary . the Home Secretary have be in post for two week , during which time he have use the same language to pick a fight with Stockton and show what he think of his own Rwanda policy , he have be attack by his Back Benchers , and Downing Street have already be force to confirm it still have full confidence in he . twelve day ago he say the number of asylum hotel bed space be down , but four day ago Home Office figure show they be up to a record 56 , 000 — 10 , 000 more than at the beginning of the year . do he even know what be go on ? yes , I do . let I expand — that answer be a by - product of the right hon . Lady ask a closed question at the Dispatch Box . I have be in this job for 14 day , and I be conscious that my counterpart around Europe and the world be grapple with many of the same issue . I would love nothing more than to be able to resolve they all in 14 day — I be good , but I be not a magician . perhaps that mean an end to the magical thinking that the right hon . Gentleman ' s predecessor call for . we still have 10 , 000 more bed space than when the Prime Minister promise to end hotel use . the Home Secretary owe the House the fact . there be still no sign of anything on the fail Rwanda plan , because he know it will not work , and nothing on the trebling of net migration to tackle the skill gap that be drive work visa . the Government have be in power for 13 year and all we have be chaos and briefing war . his Back Benchers be already call he " Colonel Calamity " , and he have Corporal Chaos next to he on the Front Bench . give the mess he have inherit and his penchant for profanity , do he accept that he be now up a certain kind of creek without a paddle ? the right hon . Lady be someone I admire hugely , and one of the thing I admire most be how she have manage to be at the Dispatch Box twice but have fail to ask anything resemble a sensible question about the issue we be discuss . when her party be in government , it address the volume of migration by simply redefine people , wipe the slate clean and pretend there be never a problem . I have say this about the right hon . Lady ' s party in broadcast , and I say it from the Dispatch Box : there be a gape vacuum where the Labour party ' s policy on migration , whether it be legal or illegal , should be . unless and until Labour Members come up with something approach a policy , I will continue to do what we know to be right : drive down small - boat arrival and reduce the number of hotel room need . we have close 50 hotel and we will do more . be the Home Secretary do enough to reassure Jews that the United Kingdom be safe ? my right hon . Friend ask an incredibly important question . I have make it very clear to the police force of the UK that when member of a minority group in this country tell we that they be live in fear , we must take action . I be pleased that the police response this weekend be more robust than on previous weekend — the police be clearly listen to the conversation we be have with they and I commend they for do so . I have speak with representative of the Community Security Trust and the Board of Deputies of british Jews , and I will be have a meeting with the Chief Rabbi to make it absolutely clear that the jewish community in the UK have the right to feel safe and this Government will take action to ensure it be safe . many of my constituent have face significant delay when apply for biometric residence permit card because of technical error . one constituent , whose application be approve in July 2020 , do not receive their BRP until January 2023 because of printing issue . what action be be take to address the technical problem contribute to delay in process BRP application ? I hope the Home Secretary can answer that question . I be pleased to report to the hon . Lady that that part of our Visas and Immigration service be now operate within its service standard , so there be a good service be offer to member of the public , but if she have any specific case , she can bring they to my attention . as a local authority closely tie to Heathrow airport , the London Borough of Hillingdon have be do great work to manage the impact of those currently in the asylum process . that be despite a funding imbalance in national rate , give the local population and the number of asylum seeker . will my right hon . friend commit to work with I to look at how we can ensure that those authority , such as Hillingdon Council , link with major port of entry be give the resource to cope with such demand ? my hon . friend raise an important matter for his constituent . as they live in the local authority beside Heathrow airport , it be true that his constituent bear a particular burden with respect to asylum seeker . we do provide £ 3 , 500 per asylum seeker to a local authority to help meet those cost , but a local authority such as Hillingdon do need our support , and I would be delighted to work with he in that regard . the Home Secretary will be familiar with the invasive surveillance system that authoritarian state such as Russia and China impose on their citizen . be he comfortable with the Policing Minister ' s push for similar live facial recognition system to be use on innocent Brits , at a time when our colleague in the European Parliament be legislate to abandon this technology ? we should be clear that retrospective facial recognition put hundred , if not thousand , of criminal in prison . for example , it be use to catch a murderer who have kill somebody in a Coventry nightclub who be then identify use an image take on a mobile phone . that be a murderer who would not be in prison but for the use of retrospective facial recognition . live facial recognition have be use extensively by two police force and experimentally by two other , include by South Wales , which have an excellent labour police and crime commissioner , Alun Michael , who have lead the way in this area in a way that be safe and that respect privacy . critically , if someone ' s face be scan and they be not on the wanted list , their detail be delete immediately , which I hope provide reassurance on the question of privacy . where it have be use , want people , include a want rapist and a wanted sex offender , have be apprehend who otherwise would have go free . I would hope that the entire House can agree that catch wanted rapist be something that we can all get behind . during the recent protest , we have see politician hound out of their office and even need a police escort at a train station . what more can we do to ensure that people who make decision be do it fairly and not from intimidation ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . that be exactly why we be have an emergency meeting of the Defending Democracy Taskforce tomorrow to assess these issue . the incident that we have see in this country since 7 October — absolutely hateful incident — have leave some people feel unable to make the argument that their constituent would expect they to make because they feel vulnerable or they feel threatened . that be why I have be engage on a protective security review not just for the Government , but for all member of this House , and for other elect official around our country . it be completely wrong for our democracy to be silence by anyone , and it certainly should not be silence by coward . my constituent , Dr Lubna Hadoura , have give almost 30 year of service in a specialised role to our NHS . today , all she can think about be her 84 - year - old mum and other member of her family who be stick in Gaza with no hope of escape . will the Secretary of State agree to meet urgently with I and Dr Hadoura so that she can set out to he more powerfully than I ever could the urgent humanitarian and moral imperative to get the family of UK citizen out of Gaza before it be too late ? the Government have a duty to british national , which we take very seriously . I recognise the plight of many non - british national in Gaza , which be why , in my previous role and now support the current Foreign Secretary , we have long push for a humanitarian pause . I be pleased that that be in place . we will continue to work with the international community and the country in the region to ensure that support be give to the people in Gaza who need it and that action be take to end this conflict , so that Israelis as well as the palestinian people can live in peace and security . as we seek to reduce the backlog of asylum claim , there be a temptation to grant more economic migrant the right to remain here . will my right hon . Friend assure the House that there will be no slackening of the rule to root out economic migrant so that they can be return to where they come from ? the whole point of have border control be that we can ensure that our migration system support our economy and our social cohesion . both those thing be important . we want to ensure that we be choose the right people , in the right number , at the right pace . I give the House a categoric assurance that that will always underpin our thinking with regard to what future change we might make to the legal migration process . it be not simply the decibel level of firework that be cause an issue ; police officer in Scotland have be come under attack , with firework use as weapon . the Scottish Parliament have control over the sale of firework but not their manufacture , as they be classify as explosive . will the Minister guarantee that step will be take to tighten thing up in order to reduce the use of these weapon ? fail that , will he simply devolve the power so that the Scottish Parliament can act , as it have do on air weapon and drink - driving ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that important point . the control of product be often a matter for the Department for Business and Trade , but since he have raise it at Home Office question , I will happily take his point away and look into it carefully . as be reference early , there be grow concern in the retail trade about increase in shoplifting and , in particular , violence against shop worker . do the Minister agree that we need custodial sentence for persistent offender ? persistent offender should certainly get send to prison . there be no question about that . of course , it be now a statutory aggravate factor if the victim of an assault be a retail worker . we be concern , though , about retail crime . we do not want to end up in the same place as some american city , such as San Francisco , with out - of - control looting . we want a zero - tolerance approach . that be why just a few week ago we launch with police a retail crime action plan , which will see police always follow up evidence , include CCTV evidence and the use of facial recognition technology ; always attend where necessary to investigate , or where someone have be assault ; and particularly target prolific offender and criminal gang . give the revelation in recent week that the Home Secretary ' s predecessor strike a deal with the Prime Minister before she take up the post , and give that it be well know that the Home Secretary be very much enjoy his role as Foreign Secretary , will he tell the House what deal he might have strike with the Prime Minister before take on this role ? a fantastic question , well worth ask . the contract that all minister have be with the british people , to work hard on their behalf and to focus relentlessly on their priority . that be something that every Government Minister take seriously , and something totally lack in the narrative come from the Opposition Benches , include the liberal Democrat Benches . the award - win Cotswold Canals Trust volunteer have have enough of antisocial behaviour such as graffiti , dog mess and worry drug paraphernalia everywhere . it be ruin their hard work on the canal network and be put they at risk . part of our successful approach to try to tackle it be get CCTV down the canal . will my right hon . friend let we know what be happen with the safe street fund ? Police and crime commissioner Chris Nelson and I have make an application , and we be wait to hear about it . a round of safe street funding be distribute for the current financial year , and we will make an announcement shortly about the follow financial year . More money will be available , and it will be up to police and crime commissioner to decide how they spend that money . we will also confirm shortly the roll - out of antisocial behaviour hotspot patrol across the entire country — across all 43 police force in England and Wales . where those have be trialle so far — in Essex , Staffordshire , Lancashire and elsewhere — we have see 30 % decrease in ASB . pretty soon , that will be available in Gloucestershire as well . that conclude proceeding on question . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker — Order . I will take point of order after the urgent question , unless they be directly relevant to what have just be say . it be directly associate with the Home Secretary . it be not directly relevant to a question that have just be answer — well , I be guess it be not . [ interruption . ] order . we be move on to a very important matter and I expect the House to be quiet to listen to the urgent question from Mr David Lammy . Israel and Hamas : humanitarian Pause ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the Israel - Gaza situation and the humanitarian pause . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for his question . a tragedy be unfold in the middle east . Israel have suffer the bad terror attack in its history and palestinian civilian be experience a devastating and grow humanitarian crisis . as the Foreign Secretary make clear , last week ' s agreement be a crucial step towards provide relief to the family of the hostage and address the humanitarian emergency in Gaza . this pause have provide an important opportunity to ensure that much great volume of food , fuel and other life - save aid can enter Gaza . on 24 November the British Government announce a furth £ 30 million of humanitarian assistance , triple our exist aid budget for the Occupied Palestinian Territories this financial year . during the pause , the fourth UK aircraft , carry 23 tonne of humanitarian aid for Gaza , arrive in Egypt , bring the total amount of UK humanitarian aid provide via british aircraft to 74 tonne . that aid be now be disperse to the United Nations to support critical food , water , health , shelter and protection need in Gaza and to pre - position emergency supply in the region . today be the fourth and final day of the agreement . the british Government be supportive of the current pause in hostility continue , but that be for the Israelis and other in the region to agree . we be clear that this pause should not be a one - off . the increase flow of fuel and relief supply over the Rafah crossing accompany the pause be welcome and must be sustain . this pause should act as a confidence - building mechanism for future pause , include those solely on humanitarian ground . we welcome the intensive international co - operation , include effort from Qatar and the USA , that lead to this agreement and we thank partner for their continue work . we remain committed to make progress towards a two - state solution . Britain ' s long - stand position on the middle east peace process be clear . we support a negotiate settlement lead to a safe and secure Israel live alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state . the UK will continue to work with all partner in the region to reach a long - term political solution that enable both Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace . I be grateful for the granting of this urgent question . hold the Government to account be a sacred duty of this House , but with Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton not here , this feel more like a game of " where ' s Wally ? " I start by ask the Minister what progress be be make with Mr Speaker to ensure that all member can question the Foreign Secretary . the past 72 hour have bring much - need relief to Israel and Gaza . I pay tribute to the work of Qatar , Egypt , the United States and the Red Cross . the image of hostage who have be release and reunite with their family have move we all , but the situation remain bittersweet , with many more still captive and their family in agony . in Gaza , the past few week have be an unimaginable nightmare for innocent Palestinians . the civilian death toll , which include thousand of woman and child , be shocking and intolerable . the increase flow of aid and fuel remain a fraction of what be require . More time be need . we must urgently support the party to reach an agreement to extend the cessation of hostility , to secure the release of remain hostage , to deliver more aid to ease the unacceptable humanitarian catastrophe and , crucially , to provide a stepping stone towards an endure cessation of hostility , ensure that what follow the war be a durable political solution . the danger be that the fighting will resume in mere hour . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that , if the vital effort to extend the cessation of hostility fail , we can not return to the situation of before the pause ? we can not go back to Hamas continue rocket attack on Israel , we can not go back to unacceptable siege condition in Gaza , and we can not go back to the scene of thousand of innocent Palestinians be kill . the two - state solution remain the only credible basis for a last peace : a future in which Israel be secure from the threat of Hamas terrorist , in which Gaza be not occupy and its people be no long displace , and in which Palestinians and Israelis can enjoy security , dignity and human right . I thank the right hon . gentleman for most of his comment and , in particular , his desire to ensure an extension of the cessation of hostility . on what he say about the broad situation , the Opposition Front Benchers and the Government be in complete agreement . the right hon . Gentleman ask what progress have be make in ensure that the Foreign Office and the Government ' s foreign policy be subject to proper scrutiny in this House . I completely agree with he that there be a sacred duty — I think that be the term that he use — to ensure that all that scrutiny be make available . I just point out to he the extraordinary authority that a former Prime Minister can bring to bear in carry out those task , as he will have see from Lord Cameron ' s recent visit to the middle east . Lord Cameron be the most senior Foreign Minister in Europe — and , indeed , in the region — and I think that both side of the House will see the benefit of that in the day and month to come . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . this be a serious matter . the UK ' s priority in the region be security and stability for the whole of the middle east , yet today Netanyahu plan to push forward with a special budget that will fund expansion of the settlement by over $ 80 million . as a friend , we have a duty to say to Israel , " do not proceed with this plan . it take we far away from peace and , frankly , it will risk not only the truce , but the ability to get home hostage who be still hold by their terrorist kidnapper . " what be my right hon . friend do to ensure that we speak plainly to our friend ? I thank the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee for her comment . she be entirely right that Israel must comply with international humanitarian law , and must not only prosecute but punish those who have be involve in settler violence . the Government be deliver tough message to all side in this dreadful conflict , and we will continue to do so . I call the SNP spokesman . I be grateful to the Minister for his statement , and I commend the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) for the integrity and courage with which she raise her concern . do the Minister agree that the only way we will see a lasting and just peace in the middle east be through the establishment of a two - state solution in which Israel and Palestine be recognise as equal sovereign state with equal right and equal responsibility to uphold international law ? give that there be now credible accusation of war crime against both side in this conflict , will the Government confirm that they will give full support to the International Criminal Court to investigate without fear or favour all allegation of war crime , regardless of who be accuse of they , so that any perpetrator of a war crime , regardless of whose friend or foe they may be , be bring to justice before the international court ? give that it be an offence in international law to supply weapon where they may be use in the commission of a war crime , what recent reassessment have the Government make of the legality of their arm sale to the middle east ? finally , I do not know whether the Minister be in the Chamber to hear my plea on behalf of my constituent Dr Lubna Hadoura — I have write to the Foreign Secretary specifically about she — but will he agree to meet urgently with I and she , and with the Home Secretary , so that we can find an effective way to get the family of UK national who be still stick in Gaza out while the peace last ? if we do not get they out during a ceasefire , we might not get they out at all . both the Lord Chancellor and I have make clear the position in respect of the International Criminal Court . I set it out in the House : it be not for Government Ministers and politician to address these matter , but for the prosecutor and the administration of the International Criminal Court . the hon . Gentleman rightly identify future thinking as critical at this time . he will recall that the progress that be make at Oslo be on the back of the first intifada . that should give we some confidence in these dreadful set of circumstance that we need to focus on the future , and a lot of thinking be go on in that respect . to address his point about the arm regime , he will know that the British Government have the tough arm export regime in the world , and we adhere absolutely to that . during this lull in fighting , the whole House want to see as many hostage as possible release and as much aid as possible get in , but both side be commit to recommence fighting . do my right hon . friend think it be time to call for a demilitarisation of Gaza in the long term , and to consider future governance , security and humanitarian plan ? will he consider a joint summit with the United States , bring together all the stakeholder to look at the long - term implication of this conflict ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of look to the medium and the long term , and of do all that be necessary to bring together people of good will to make progress on the two - state solution . we want to see all hostage release as swiftly as possible , and we also want to see great volume of food , fuel , medicine and life - save supply get into Gaza , principally through Rafah but also through any other plausible mean . be it the Government ' s contention that further hostility — the destruction of the south of Gaza in the way we have see the north destroy , with ten of thousand more kill — will lead easily to a permanent ceasefire , or will it simply embolden the militant ? the hon . Gentleman be right about the very worrying position that exist in the south of Gaza at the moment . he will have see that the United Nations and other be consider island of deconfliction , particularly around Khan Yunis , include safe zone in order to dispense aid . but , like I , he will be very aware of the danger experience in other safe zone in the past , and the risk for civilian who be involve in they . how can a two - state solution , which everybody say they want — everybody in this Chamber , at any rate — ever come to pass while Hamas remain in control of the Gaza strip ? I do not think that anybody think that Hamas be go to remain in charge of the Gaza strip in the medium term , or anything long than that . it be great when the Minister give very quick answer , which be what I ask he to do . the prospect of the carnage simply resume at the end of this pause be a really dreadful one . what be the Minister ' s assessment of the likelihood that the ceasefire might be make permanent if , over a period of some further day , all the hostage be release ? the right hon . Gentleman will have see the statement by the israeli Government about the number of hostage to be release and the possibility of extend the pause in that respect . the view of the British Government be that we should do everything we can to ensure the hostage be release as speedily as possible . the long that this pause continue , the great chance there be for humanitarian aid to get into Gaza and for progress to be make . do my right hon . friend agree that any ceasefire continue should be link to the release of more hostage ? be he concerned that Hamas be break the agreement in several way , include by separate parent and their child when release one but not the other ? they have not even allow the Red Cross to visit all remain hostage , which have be a rule in conflict for over 100 year . be he not concerned about these breach ? I be immensely concerned about the fate of all the hostage . as my right hon . and learn Friend will know , there be originally about 240 hostage , and as of midnight last night 58 hostage have manage to get out . at the same time , 117 prisoner have be release by the israeli Government . the soon that all the hostage be out , the well . like other , I feel a real sense of relief watch some of the hostage who emerge and be reunite with their family yesterday . the Minister say that this pause could turn into a one - off ; it need not . I know the issue be incredibly complicated and I know it be only through international intervention that we will make progress , but could he tell we what step be be take not to get to a two - state solution at this point , but to start a peace process between the war faction that will eventually , one would hope , lead to a two - state solution ? what step be be take now by international body ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her question . she speak with great wisdom on these matter . I can tell she that the discussion to which she refer be go on throughout the region and internationally . Britain be play a proper part , not least by the visit last week of the Foreign Secretary to the region . I very much hope we can extend the humanitarian pause . the Minister , as a former serviceman , like I , will know that the United Kingdom armed force make extraordinary effort to avoid civilian casualty , even when target terrorist embed in civilian area — a point that have be make very forcefully to I by veteran in recent day — so will the United Kingdom carry on very clearly call on Israel to follow similar standard operating procedure ? yes , and the Foreign Secretary , during his visit to Israel , make precisely that point . the pause be obviously welcome because it will save life . the horror of 7 October have not go away . the disaster of the killing of 14 , 000 people in Gaza have not go away . there have to be a recognition , as Ant ó nio Guterres have point out , of the underlying issue , which be the occupation of the west bank and the settlement policy , and the violence that so many Palestinians have have to put up with for decade and decade . do the Minister believe there be a role now for the United Nations to do more to try to bring about not just a ceasefire , but a long - term peace that will involve the withdrawal of israeli force from Palestine ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that there be always a role for the United Nations , but it have to be adapt to the circumstance . what he say about a ceasefire , which I have hear he say before , be fetter by the fact that Hamas have make it perfectly clear that they do not want a ceasefire . they want to repeat what they do on 7 October , the day of those terrible event . to have a ceasefire , we have to have two side that want a ceasefire , and that be clearly not available on this occasion . the conflict in the middle east be tragic , complex and , sadly , protract . while the House be broadly align on the need to defeat Hamas , could the Minister please reassure I of the effort be undertake to urge restraint among all protagonist in the protection of civilian and non - combatant in Gaza ? Britain have be very clear about the importance of respect international humanitarian law in all circumstance . the Minister must be concern by those who seek to play down what have actually happen to innocent Israelis in the middle east . he must be gutte and alarm that Leo Varadkar , the Prime Minister of a neighbouring state of our , describe one of the victim , an eight - year - old girl who be kidnap and abuse , as " lose " . that be unbelievable . be the Minister concern by the ever - increase extremism and the anti - NATO and antisemitic attitude emanate now from the Republic of Ireland ? be he go to have a word with that country about its attitude ? the Government have be absolutely clear on where we stand on antisemitism and Islamophobia : we condemn both without qualification and will continue to do so . as the Minister know , there have be no pause in violence in the west bank , whose largely defenceless population have be subject over a number of month now to a campaign of what the Americans and French have refer to as " terror " . the Minister say he be ask tough question and deliver tough message to both side , but when will those tough message turn into tough action ? the Americans have already say they will institute visa ban against those settler who be perpetrate violence , but we have be talk about this for year to little or no effect . give the centrality of achieve a two - state solution , be there not a strong case for we to take firm action against settler , those who arm they and those who support they ? on his visit last week , the Foreign Secretary deliver very strong message , when he be in Ramallah and when he see the israeli Government , about the importance of stop settler violence and ensure that people be put before the court and punish — that if the perpetrator of settler violence be identify , they could be put before the court . the release of hostage and the increase in humanitarian aid be very much to be welcome , but I be sure the Minister and the House agree that only a political solution can bring about a last peace . in that spirit , will he support labour ' s call for a new middle east envoy ? also , I be not quite clear from his answer to the Chair of the Select Committee on Foreign Affairs , so will he say that the UK state condemn and be utterly oppose to the settlement ? the position of the british Government on the illegal settlement be absolutely clear . on the possibility of have an envoy , a whole range of different envoy be engage in this , but if it be appropriate for we to deploy an envoy on behalf of the Government — either a humanitarian or political envoy around the region — we would have no hesitation in do so . despite the pause over the last few day , the humanitarian situation in Gaza remain catastrophic and be likely to continue to be catastrophic . while no one doubt the right of Israel to defend itself , the fact be that it be an occupy power and as such have clear legal obligation to the civilian of Gaza , so when my right hon . friend next speak to his israeli opposite number will he remind he of those obligation and ensure that even after the pause end sufficient aid be allow to get through to the population of Gaza ? we be do everything we can through the United Nations and other contact in the region to ensure that aid and support get through to those who need it so desperately in Gaza , and my right hon . friend may rest assure that we will continue to do that . the massacre by Hamas on 7 October be completely indefensible , but the Minister will be aware that since then no few than 5 , 500 Gaza child have die and there be hundred more missing , probably under rubble . the Secretary - General of the UN say Gaza be " a graveyard for child " and most recently the executive director of UNICEF have say that pause be not enough and only a ceasefire will save child . when be the Government go to use their good office to press both side for a ceasefire ? regardless of whether the right hon . Lady ' s figure be correct , we know that there have be appal loss of civilian life in Gaza . in respect of what she say about the relative merit of a pause or ceasefire , we can build on pause , but I point out that it be the policy of those on the Opposition Front Bench and the Government to press for humanitarian pause , and that be what the british Government will continue to do . the release of some hostage be incredibly welcome , but the price for that be that Israel have take the difficult decision to release many palestinian prisoner hold for terror offence , include bombing and stabbing attack , in exchange for its civilian hold in Gaza in unimaginable condition . history show we that previous security prisoner release by Israel have go on to commit further terror offence . do my right hon . friend agree that this should be of concern to the whole world and that we must continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel to support it to combat terror ? the point that my hon . friend make , particularly about prisoner reoffende , underline the importance of our pursue every possible way of get on to a political track . when this ghastly violence finish , or be significantly diminish , everyone must bend every conceivable sinew to drive forward a new political process for peace . few of we can imagine the trauma of be permanently displace from our home and never allow to return . can the Minister reassure the House that Israel will not take land in Gaza , as some israeli Ministers have threaten to do , and that Palestinians will be allow back to their home and land , particularly give that 1 . 7 million out of 2 . 3 million people live in Gaza have be displace ? the hon . and learn Lady be right to talk about the deeply contentious issue of land , but what she say be , as I have understand it , absolutely in accordance with the policy of the British Government . do my right hon . friend agree that the pogrom that take place on 7 October , follow by the horrific level of antisemitism that we have see across our own country , let alone across the western world , with people feel frightened to leave their home for no other reason than their religion , show why the state of Israel have a right to exist and must always be allow to defend itself ? my right hon . friend be entirely correct . what happen on 7 October be a pogrom , and it be the bad loss of life by jewish citizen on any single day since the holocaust and 1945 . I thank the Minister for his assistance in get some of our constituent from Birmingham out of Gaza . on his answer to the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) , for clarity can he state explicitly that UK Government policy be that every displace Gazan currently must be allow to return to their land ? I thank the hon . Lady for her kind remark , and I remind member from all part of the House to use the hotline to communicate with the emergency centre in the Foreign Office on behalf of constituent . in term of the Gazans who have be displace by the terrible event start by Hamas on 7 October , it be the british Government ' s policy that those displace should be able to return to the area from which they be drive . the mayor of Gaza City tell al - Jazeera that not one litre of fuel have reach the Gaza municipality , likely due to the fuel be misappropriate . why do the Minister think that the international community should trust Hamas to distribute any aid ? as my hon . friend will be aware , we be extremely careful about how british aid be distribute and do it only through trust partner of whom we have long and detailed experience . this be perhaps the most observed and scrutinise aid programme of any that the british taxpayer and british Government pursue anywhere in the world . in Home Office question , I raise the case of a constituent on a student visa whose five - year - old daughter be in southern Gaza , and I be hope for a similarly positive response from this Minister . be that visa to be grant , would that young girl be allow to travel with her grandmother into Egypt with the fcdo ' s support so that they can be reunite ? it be unwise and difficult for I to give granular advice on that specific situation from the Dispatch Box , but I will happily speak to the hon . Lady immediately afterwards and ensure that we do the good we can . I strongly welcome my right hon . friend ' s remark about increase aid to Gaza and the palestinian people at this time , and I note what he say about the care take to ensure that british aid reach its intended target , but give what we now know about the industrial scale of theft and misappropriation of aid in Gaza over the year , who be make sure on the ground right now that british aid be not be take by Hamas terrorist ? for aid in Gaza , we have not deal with either the Palestinian Authority or the Hamas civil administration for many year , and we do everything we can to ensure that it get through to the people who need it . he will have see that , I think yesterday , a british aircraft deliver 4 , 500 blanket and 4 , 500 sleep mat to al - Arish in Egypt . that be the fourth planeload . we will continue to ensure not only that we supply as much aid as we possibly can to meet the need , but that it get to the right place as speedily as possible . do the Minister share my grave concern about what Prime Minister Netanyahu ' s recent chilling comment — that " nothing will stop we " and that he will fight " until the end " — will mean for Palestine and the further massacring of innocent civilian ? we need an urgent ceasefire to prevent the further loss of life . how many more palestinian child must die before the Government will call for a permanent ceasefire ? Israel absolutely have the right to defend itself , follow the appalling event of 7 October . of course , civilian , as well as hospital , must be protect under international humanitarian law , but the hon . Member should be in no doubt that the israeli Government have the absolute right to defend themselves under international law . the recent discovery of a tunnel from the Shifa Hospital to a residential property be yet more clear evidence that Hamas be use civilian as human shield in this conflict . will the Minister therefore join I in clearly condemn that activity , and will he confirm that the Government will continue to support Israel in its fight to eradicate Hamas from the region ? yes . I , too , call for the pause to transition into a ceasefire . what discussion have the Minister and the Foreign Secretary have about open up corridor for humanitarian aid to cross between Israel and Gaza , in the light of the poor infrastructure in Gaza for move humanitarian aid from the south to the north ? we be in those discussion . as the hon . Member will know , the access through Rafah be fetter by physical and non - physical circumstance . when the Foreign Secretary be in the region last week , he have specific discussion about other mean of access into Gaza , and we be do everything we possibly can , together with our humanitarian partner , to achieve a far great degree of access for humanitarian supply . from the perspective of my constituent in Bolton , we be watch the bad horror movie conceivable , and hit pause will only delay the suffering . boltonian be ask : when can all side simply hit the stop button and bring about a ceasefire ? if a ceasefire be not possible , what discussion be we have with israeli and other counterpart about extend the pause after today ? my hon . friend will have see the discussion go on and the offer that , apparently , the israeli Government have make if extra hostage be release . all those discussion be continue . clearly , the long the pause , the more support and humanitarian supply can get into Gaza . the british Government be do everything they can to progress both those thing . I welcome the Minister ' s word that the Foreign Secretary be explore other crossing be open to get aid into the south . it be essential that that happen . if the hostility resume , as most people expect , what representation be the british Government make to try to stop they move south , where almost 2 million be displace and there be nowhere else to go ? I refer the hon . Lady to the reply I give a little early about the south . we be conscious of the fact that very large number of people be kettle into the south , which make the supply of aid even more dangerous , unless there be a comprehensive agreement that there will be no hostility around the area where aid be be distribute . we be very conscious of that , and we be work with our partner to make it as safe as possible for aid to be distribute . it be extremely good news that some hostage have be free . however , polling suggest that 75 % of the palestinian people support the atrocity by Hamas , and 85 % refuse to even consider the coexistence of a palestinian state with the state of Israel . at the moment , palestinian prisoner be be release to the west bank and Hamas be get the credit , so do the Minister accept that there be a risk that Hamas not only dominate Gaza but end up dominate the west bank as well ? my hon . friend ' s comment underline the importance of a political track emerge and be pursue with great vigour as soon as possible . I want to talk about the plight of woman in Gaza , which a constituent raise with I . every day , 180 woman in Gaza give birth , most without water , painkiller , anaesthesia for caesarean section , medical supply or , as we know , electricity for incubator . with more than 5 , 000 woman expect to give birth in Gaza next month , will the Minister join Labour in call for Israel to protect hospital in Gaza and allow continue access to medicine , food , water and electricity to protect those woman and newborn during birth ? the hon . Lady be right to draw attention to the very large number of woman who be seek to give birth in extraordinarily difficult circumstance . we be conscious of that in the aid and humanitarian supply that we be make available . I completely understand the importance of the humanitarian support worker who be in Gaza — extremely brave people who be put themselves in harm ' s way to support their fellow citizen with humanitarian supply . nowhere be that more true than in the area that she describe . it have be extremely move to see hostage start to come out and aid start to flow in . I hope that the truce will hold , but if the hostility start again , please can the UK Government make every representation to Israel that , in its legitimate effort to stop the terrorism , it must do more to prevent mass loss of civilian life , especially child ? my right hon . friend speak with experience and wisdom , and the answer be yes . my constituent Adam Abu Warda have close family in Gaza and be extremely anxious that they should have the opportunity to get out and come to the UK , as other mp have say . what be the Government ' s policy on our constituent wish to get their very close family out of Gaza to bring they to the UK ? we be seek , within the rule the hon . Gentleman will be aware of , to facilitate , in every way we can , those people leave Gaza . as I say to one of our colleague , it would not be sensible for I to look at the granular detail of the specific case he raise on the Floor of the House but , if he have contact the emergency consular support team in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and have any concern about the response he be get , I be of course very happy , to look at it myself . three week ago today , my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) and I be at Kibbutz Kfar Aza , where we see and hear thing we will never forget , and where the smell of rot blood and flesh be still pungent in the air , such be the butchery not only of Hamas but palestinian Islamic Jihad and the thousand of Gazan civilian who stream into the kibbutzim afterwards . there be some in this place who seem to give the impression that the only barrier to peace be the action of the israeli Government . the fact be that it be Hamas who be responsible for every death that occur . it be the Palestinian Authority whose textbook preach hate against Jews , not just in Israel but around the world . it be Palestinian Authority school that be close in a day of celebration after 7 October and , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , hold such appalling view about coexistence . will the Minister , in his dealing with the Palestinian Authority , encourage they to deal with their issue of extremism ? I can tell my hon . friend that the British Government be do everything they can to address the issue behind what he say . I have no doubt , have be at that terrible location so recently , that that be something he will never forget . what be the Minister ' s understanding and assessment of the Netanyahu Government ' s medium and long - term strategy for the Gaza strip ? the right hon . Gentleman , who be extremely experienced in these matter , will draw his conclusion from what the israeli Government be say , just as the British Government do . now that the welcome temporary pause be under way , what step be the UK Government take to press to ensure that it become an endure ceasefire as soon as possible , lead to a political process for peace ? be the UK Government be clear with the israeli Government that , as they seek to continue in their legitimate aim of destroy Hamas , a return to the relentless bombardment , the razing of Gaza and the indiscriminate killing of civilian be not acceptable , proportionate or within international law ? as the hon . Lady will know , Israel have an absolute right to self - defence . it have be make clear around the world that that be the right position , but it must abide by international humanitarian law . nobody can help but be move by the sight of hostage be release . this weekend , the Minister for Immigration , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , on a public platform , say that the UK Government " will not rest until each and every one of they be back in the love embrace of their family , " it be now more than a month since anybody at all from the UK Government have have any contact at all with the UK citizen who have family member as hostage — not a single phone call . the Minister will know that I have come to this place and plead with he to help arrange just five minute of Lord Cameron ' s time with the hostage family to tell they what the Government be actually do to help get their family member release . it have be other government who have help to identify that their family member be alive . please , finally , can the Minister listen to those UK citizen ask their government , " what be you do to help get my family release ? " and arrange that meeting as an urgent matter ? my understanding be not the same as the hon . Lady ' s in respect of the british hostage . she will know that over 200 british national and their dependant have so far leave Gaza , and we be work around the clock to get the rest of those out who want to leave . in term of the hostage , my understanding be not the same as she have say . do the Minister agree that we can not accept civilian be order to flee into area that be then subject to bombardment ? do he share the concern of the UN and the World Health Organisation about the proposal for a safe zone with no infrastructure , which will cause more problem down the line ? there be very serious problem with safe zone . we have learn about they the hard way from the event that take place in Srebrenica , in — indeed — Rwanda , and in northern Iraq . it be an absolute preoccupation of humanitarian — include those in the United Nations , who be neuralgic about safe zone — to ensure that if we be to distribute very large amount of aid we have the capacity to do so before too much long , and we all hope that we be able to do it in the safe possible way . I welcome the pause , with hostage release and aid deliver , and I hope that it continue . I thank the right hon . gentleman for the role that he have play to date , but if this drip , drip of hostage release be to continue , surely more must be do to ratchet up the pressure and ensure that the Red Cross and the Red Crescent gain access to the hostage about whom we have no information . be that not a priority now ? the hon . Gentleman be , of course , right : it be a priority . there be some suggestion that while I have be on my foot in the Chamber , Qatar have announce that the truce will be extend by two day . obviously we all hope that that be true , and that as a result more hostage will be able to leave . the Minister be know for his humanitarian instinct . do he agree that it be unthinkable now to resume the indiscriminate destruction of Gaza and the life of palestinian civilian ? be he urge on the israeli Government the need to find a means of remove the threat from Hamas that do not cost the life of thousand of woman , child and other non - combatant ? the hon . Gentleman speak with wisdom about the position of civilian . all of we hope that the loss of life among innocent civilian can be minimise , but I would point out to he that the israeli Government have an absolute right to go after the murderous terrorist of Hamas who perpetrate the dreadful event of 7 October . I have hear from a number of constituent in Glasgow North who be concerned that weapon either manufacture in the UK or sell by UK company be be use in this conflict . can the Minister say how regularly the UK be assess its obligation under the arm trade treaty to ensure that arm be not be transfer when there be a risk of their be use to commit or facilitate breach of international humanitarian law ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the british rule for the export of arm , scrutinise by the Committees on Arms Export Controls , provide for the tough regulation anywhere in the world . if he ever believe that those rule have be infract in any way , he should of course inform the requisite authority . despite the four - day truce , there remain a humanitarian emergency in Gaza . we can not return to the indiscriminate and unprecedented killing that we have see take place on such a horrific scale over the last seven week ; we need to see a lasting , permanent ceasefire . as I have be repeatedly urge the Minister , will the Government use the UK ' s influence at this crucial moment to secure the ceasefire , so that we can see an end to the bloodshed and the war crime , allow desperately need aid to reach all part of Gaza , and create space for the immediate return of all hostage and meaningful negotiation on a last peace ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we be do everything we can to ensure that the aid and support to which he have refer reach those who need it . of course , if we build on a humanitarian pause , the long the pause go on and the long there be meaningful negotiation in Qatar , or through Qatar , the well . the hon . Gentleman will also be aware , however , that it be the policy of his own Front Bench as well as the British Government not to call for a ceasefire — which , for the reason I have give , would be impractical in any event — but to pursue the pause that be desperately need for humanitarian relief to arrive . do the Minister agree that to prevent a catastrophic outbreak of waterborne disease such as cholera , we need to see fresh water flow and sanitation and hygiene supply be deliver on a large scale , alongside key public health and medical support ? those be indeed the supply that be necessary to stop the situation that the hon . Lady describe develop far . there be a very real risk of waterborne disease and cholera break out in Gaza , and that be why we be diligently pursue the humanitarian policy I have set out in every way we can . no one would wish to withhold the aid that have be give to the innocent civilian — who , let ' s face it , be only suffer because of a war instigate by Hamas terrorist — but do the Minister agree that this cynical drip - feed release of hostage be a further act of terror by Hamas and that the pause in the fighting will be use by they to regroup and rearm ? will he give I a reassurance that our Government will not fall into the trap of accede to Hamas ' s incessant demand for indefinite pause , rather than allow the israeli Government to do what they need to do , which be to engage in security action to destroy Hamas in their own den ? the right hon . Gentleman underline the fact that Israel have every right to exercise its self - defence in root out the Hamas terrorist and murderer . the british Government be very clear that what he have say about that be absolutely right . give that Hamas have be crystal clear that they have no intention of ever want a permanent ceasefire , what discussion have be have with the Palestinian Authority to build its capacity and competence , to ensure the transition to a two - state solution ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment about Hamas and the ceasefire , with which I completely agree . in respect of build palestinian capacity , he will know that Lord Cameron be in Ramallah last week discuss that and many other associate matter with President Abbas , the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister there . I be incredibly relieved to get my constituent ' s family , 13 of they , across the border and home through Egypt . I pay tribute to the staff in the consular section who support they , but the support be patchy and the cost of they return be over £ 5 , 000 on commercial flight . what more can the Minister do to supercharge that consular support and to reimburse those family who have to come home on commercial flight ? would he consider meet my constituent ' s family to learn the lesson that they have experience of have to flee in the middle of a bombardment ? I will certainly be pleased to arrange for Foreign Office official to meet the hon . Lady ' s constituent ' s family if she believe that there be lesson to be learn , but I also want to pay a special tribute to all the man and woman who work in the emergency centre at the Foreign Office , who have often be work through the night throughout this emergency and have do so with huge diligence , tenacity and commitment . as many other member have make clear , a two - state solution be critical to a last peace . so , give the announcement make today , can the Minister make clear the UK ' s complete opposition to illegal settlement in the west bank ? the position of the british Government — and , I believe , the opposition — be one of complete opposition to illegal settlement . many of we believe that a humanitarian pause be inadequate , as israeli aggression continue unabated , but that would be as nothing in term of a failure to support a ceasefire if Britain be to be complicit in any way with israeli aggression . can the Minister give we an assurance that the base at RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus be not be use by the US military to supply Israel , and that british military and intelligence site in Cyprus will likewise not be use to support Israel or America in this conflict ? I think the hon . Gentleman confuse the role of the British Government , which have be set out clearly by the Prime Minister and by I in the House . he will also know that when it come to the use of intelligence asset and so forth , we do not discuss those matter across the Floor of the House . it be welcome this weekend to see the release of israeli child hostage . it be also welcome a moment ago to hear the Minister talk about a possible two - day extension to the pause in fighting . we hear two week ago from the israeli Foreign Minister , who say : " Israel have some two or three week until international pressure seriously begin to increase " . he say that the pressure be " not particularly high " but be increase . give that the israeli Government be not feel pressured internationally a fortnight ago , how can the Minister be sure that the pressure from the UK Government be be feel now , so that the rule of engagement of the Israel Defence Forces will distinguish between terrorist and civilian ? the people who serve in the Israel Defence Forces be teach , as part of their basic training , the importance of abide by international humanitarian law . I would contrast the Israel Defence Forces , who seek to defend israeli citizen , with Hamas , who seek to use their citizen to defend Hamas . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have advise the respective office of the member of this House whom I will refer to in this point of order . it be extremely sad that the Home Secretary have not the gut to admit to his appalling remark make about my Stockton North constituency from the Front Bench and apologise to the people I have the privilege of represent . there be quite a chain of event last week . after I raise the matter on the Floor of the House , the Home Secretary first deny he have say anything at all . the Government then send out the Tory party chairman , the hon . member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , to tell the medium that no word have be utter from the Treasury Bench . next up , the Leader of the House say she have be tell by the Home Secretary that he have not say anything and she believe he . she do not help matter by refer to Billington instead of Billingham . the Home Secretary clearly take they both for fool , as he later admit his foul language but try to minimise the damage to his reputation by claim his remark be aim at I . well , that be all right then , but it be untrue and have be show to be untrue . my thank go to the Mirror and the other wizard out there who have prove that to be the case . order . I be listen carefully to the hon . Gentleman , who use the word " untrue . " I think he could find another way of express that , as I be sure he would not wish to say that a right hon . member of this House have utter something that be untrue . Madam Deputy Speaker , you offer I a considerable challenge . perhaps the Home Secretary have inadvertently mislead people across the country in relation to this particular matter . this matter : people take notice of what the Home Secretary say and his talk down of Stockton and Teesside can have consequence . he may have whisper in your ear , Madam Deputy Speaker , but can you advise I on whether you have any power to order he to return to the Dispatch Box to apologise in person for insult Stockton , rather than hide behind the half - truth utter on his behalf by an official ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . he will recall that I answer a similar point of order last week , when he raise one aspect of this matter . at that point , I remind all member of the need for good temper and moderation in the language they use in this Chamber . the hon . Gentleman ask I if I have power to require the Home Secretary to return to the Chamber . I do not need such a power ; the Home Secretary have voluntarily return to the Chamber , and if he would care to make a point of order , far to that point of order , the Chamber will hear he . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . for the avoidance of doubt , the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) accuse I of make derogatory remark about his constituency . my response , issue through my office , be that I do not , would not and would never make such comment about his constituency . what I say be a comment about he . my apology be for use unparliamentary language , but I will make it absolutely clear , for the avoidance of doubt and with no ambiguity , that I do not , would not — you do . what be you call I , sir ? order . the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) ask the Home Secretary to come back to the Chamber to issue an apology , and he be do so . [ hon . member : " no , he isn ' t . " ] enough . hon . gentleman ought to hear what the Home Secretary have to say and not shout from a sedentary position — please . I know what I say . I reject the accusation that I criticise the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . my criticism , which I make from a sedentary position about he , use inappropriate language , for which I apologise . but I will not accept that my criticism be of his constituency , because it be not . you need a backbone ! then what be you say , sir ? order . this be not a debate , and the matter be now close . the Home Secretary have rightly come to the Chamber . he have apologise to the hon . member for Stockton North . that be an apology rightly due to he , and I hope he will accept it . rise — I will briefly listen to the hon . Gentleman , but I wish to close this matter . I do not require any apology for an insult against I , because it do not happen . you have just intimate , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the Home Secretary have apologise to I . he have not apologise to I . he have not apologise to the people of my constituency . he have apologise for use unparliamentary language . the right hon . Gentleman have issue an apology . I require an apology for the use of unparliamentary language , and the right hon . Gentleman , the Home Secretary , have give that apology . it be my understanding that he have also apologise to the hon . gentleman — whether the hon . Gentleman accept it or not be a matter for he . I require an apology , the Home Secretary have issue that apology , and the matter be now close . I must say that the people who elect we to this place expect we to concentrate now on the very serious matter that we have be discuss and that we be go on to discuss . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in response to my right hon . friend the Chancellor ' s autumn statement , the right hon . member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , whom I have inform of this point of order , state that the economy would be " £ 40 billion small " in 2027 than the Chancellor forecast in March . the Office for Budget Responsibility have state that in fact in 2027 the economy will be £ 15 billion large than the Chancellor state in March , so there be a £ 55 billion gap between Labour ' s word and economic reality . let I ask a procedural point . if the right hon . Lady be a Minister , we could call for an urgent question or demand a statement , but how can member of this House compel she to come here to correct the record and apologise for inadvertently misleading member of this House ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s point of order and for his have give I notice that he intend to make it . will he confirm that he have inform the right hon . Lady of his intention to raise this matter ? indicate assent . I see that he be nod to say that he have inform she . I be glad that he have do so . I have no ability to require a shadow spokesman to come to the House . it be Ministers who be responsible for answer to the House . I also say to the hon . Gentleman that it be not for the Chair to adjudicate on the interpretation of statistic . one person ' s statistic be another person ' s non - statistic . I have discern that over many year in this Chamber . the hon . Gentleman have use the opportunity of a point of order to make his point . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful that the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , be still in his place because , as the urgent question illustrate , there be huge concern about unfold event in the middle east . in the spirit of the update and briefing to the House about Ukraine , would it be in order for the House to request regular statement on ongoing and unfold event in the middle east , in order that it can reflect the concern express from across the House , as illustrate by the response to the urgent question ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman , but I think he know that be not a point of order for the Chair but a question he can ask of the business manager and the Leader of the House on Thursday morning , when the Leader of the House take question . I see that the Minister be eager to answer the point . it be not a point of order , but give the sensitivity of the subject that we be discuss , I will allow the Minister to make his point . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I assure my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) that we in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be the servant of the House . we will do anything that the House request in respect of fulfil the role that he have identify , which we fulfil in the early day of the ukrainian war . I have never know the Minister not to relish an opportunity to come to the Dispatch Box and I be sure that we will hear from he many time in forthcoming week . let we hope that it will be with good news , to counteract the bad news that he have have to deal with today and on other day . Bill present Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Michael Gove , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Oliver Dowden , Secretary Lucy Frazer and Lee Rowley , present a Bill to make provision to amend the right of tenant under long residential lease to acquire the freehold of their house , to extend the lease of their house or flat , and to collectively enfranchise or manage the building contain their flat , to give such tenant the right to reduce the rent payable under their lease to a peppercorn , to regulate charge and cost payable by residential tenant , to regulate residential estate management and to regulate rent charge . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 13 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 13 - EN ) . Autumn Statement Resolutions - Rates of Tobacco Products Duty before we resume the debate , I remind hon . member that , as Mr Speaker say last week , in addition to be present at the start of the debate , after a Member have speak in the debate , they must , as an absolute minimum , remain in the Chamber for at least the next two speech , and preferably for the majority of the debate . it be unfortunate that I be have to repeat this , but we have have some difficulty in recent week where member think they can come in , make a speech and go away again . take part in a debate mean be here for the whole of that debate . of course , the occupant of the Chair will allow a Member to go out for a short while , but not for hour and hour . it be also essential that every member who have speak in a debate should return to hear the wind - up speech from both the Opposition spokesperson and the Minister . I remind hon . member that that sometimes include the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . if , for any reason , hon . member be unable to return to the Chamber for the wind - up in today ' s debate , for which approximately 46 people have indicate that they wish to catch my eye , they should please let I know now and I will withdraw their request to speak . I remind member that record be keep when member speak and fail to return , and that be take into account when decide whether to call member in subsequent debate . it should not be necessary to say this , but I have to say it : both the Minister and the Opposition spokesperson respond to the debate be expect to remain in the Chamber for the majority of the debate , so that they be able to respond effectively to point raise by other hon . member . I should draw the House ' s attention to a minor correction that have be make to resolution 21 . a revise version of the resolution paper be available in the Vote Office and online . it include a note set out the correction that have be make . Debate resume ( Order , 23 November ) . question again propose , that — ( 1 ) in Schedule 1 to the Tobacco Products Duty Act 1979 ( table of rate of tobacco product duty ) , for the Table substitute — " TABLE cigarette an amount equal to the high of — ( a ) 16 . 5 % of the retail price plus £ 316 . 70 per thousand cigarette , or ( b ) £ 422 . 80 per thousand cigarette . cigar £ 395 . 03 per kilogram Hand - roll tobacco £ 412 . 32 per kilogram other smoking tobacco and chew tobacco £ 173 . 68 per kilogram Tobacco for heat £ 325 . 53 per kilogram " . ( 2 ) in consequence of the provision make by paragraph ( 1 ) , in Schedule 2 to the Travellers ' allowance order 1994 ( which provide in certain circumstance for a simplified calculation of excise duty on good bring into Great Britain ) — ( a ) in the entry relate to cigarette , for " £ 393 . 45 " substitute " £ 422 . 80 " , ( b ) in the entry relate to hand roll tobacco , for " £ 351 . 03 " substitute " £ 412 . 32 " , ( c ) in the entry relate to other smoking tobacco and chew tobacco , for " £ 161 . 62 " substitute " £ 173 . 68 " , ( d ) in the entry relate to cigar , for " £ 367 . 61 " substitute " £ 395 . 03 " , ( e ) in the entry relate to cigarillos , for " £ 367 . 61 " substitute " £ 395 . 03 " , and ( f ) in the entry relate to tobacco for heating , for " £ 90 . 88 " substitute " £ 97 . 66 " . ( 3 ) the amendment make by this Resolution come into force at 6 pm on 22 November 2023 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . secure good job for more people be the good way out of poverty , and the good route to raise living standard . that be why , in his autumn statement , the Chancellor announce a cut in the main rate of employee national insurance from 12 % to 10 % . that be why we have raise the national living wage , represent a boost of more than £ 1 , 800 to the annual earning of a full - time worker . that be why we be deliver the next generation of welfare reform to help thousand more people into work . that be why , Madam Deputy Speaker , we on the conservative Benches will never tire of remind Opposition Members of our record since 2010 : nearly 4 million more people in work ; number on company payroll at a near - record high ; the unemployment rate around halve ; more than a million few people in poverty ; and UK economic inactivity low than the G7 , the EU and the OECD average , and down nearly 300 , 000 from its pandemic peak . as conservative , we believe in make sure that those who can work have every opportunity to do so . indeed , that be precisely how we can afford a strong welfare safety net for those who be unable to work and support for the most vulnerable in our society . if we be to insist on work visa be give only to people who be on average UK earning , would that not create a virtuous circle by which only skilled people come here , and care home would be force to pay proper wage , ensure that more people come off my right hon . friend ' s book and get into productive work ? my right hon . friend be attempt to tempt I into matter that I know be under discussion at the high level of Government at the moment around the policy that we should adopt on immigration , but I will not be draw immediately in that direction . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for give way . let I return to the record of the past 13 year . at various point in that time , there have be no shortage of people in this House and outside who have be very quick to predict an explosion in unemployment — whether that be when we be introduce the public spending restraint under the coalition Government or when we be come out of the covid pandemic . do not the fact that those prediction be wrong demonstrate two thing ? the first be the underlying resilience of the british economy and labour market , and the second be the success of the measure take by numerous Ministers in his Department over the year always to make work pay and to make sure that our welfare system be reform to encourage work incentive ? as usual , my right hon . friend make characteristically insightful remark about the UK economy , not least about unemployment , where he be right : the expectation during covid be that unemployment would rocket up to the kind of level that we last see in the 1980 . the fact that no such thing happen be a testament to many of the Ministers , as my right hon . friend suggest , and not least to our current Prime Minister , who as Chancellor come forward with the furlough scheme and the support for business . our commitment to support the most vulnerable be clear , include in the substantial the Government have provide to help family with the cost of living . that include the million of cost of living payment , land directly into the bank account of those on the low income , as well as to million of pensioner and disabled people . of course , one of the most important action that we have take to help family be to deliver on the Prime Minister ' s pledge to halve inflation . a compassionate government recognise that , for the poor family , cost of living pressure remain , which be why we be increase universal credit and other benefit by 6 . 7 % from next April in line with September ' s inflation figure . a compassionate Government recognise that rise rent be affect private renter on the low income , which be why we be increase the local housing allowance to the 30th percentile of local market rent from April next year . a compassionate government back their pensioner , which be why we be honour the triple lock , with an increase to the full state pension of 8 . 5 % . that be the second big ever increase , follow last year ' s increase of 10 . 1 % . will the Secretary of State comment on the number of death that be anticipate , as I mention last week , due to element of the policy proposal around force people into work , and take their benefit off they if they be unable to fulfil that ? I will come to benefit reform momentarily , but let I assure the hon . Lady — I know that this be a particular concern of hers , and she be right to be concern about these matter — that my Department be extremely concerned to ensure that all change in our benefit reform be proportionate and be introduce in the most sympathetic and supportive way possible . underlie those reform , however , be a simple belief : we believe that where people want to work — where they have the ability to work — work be good for they . we want to open our door to as many people as possible , include many who be currently long - term sick and disabled , to give they exactly that opportunity . I have declare my business interest in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . note the good word from the Chancellor in favour of self - employment , and note the national insurance measure to help , be there thing that the Department for Work and Pensions be do , or can do , so that self - employment be an option for people who be currently without work but who may have a lot to offer ? my right hon . friend be right to draw attention to the self - employ and to the national insurance change that my right hon . friend the Chancellor announce in his autumn statement . of course , my Department do a huge amount to support the self - employ . many of our programme be open to self - employ people to ensure that we be there to support they with the wage that they be able to bring home in self - employment , and we will continue to do exactly that . a compassionate government also need to be honest about the significant challenge that we face with the rise number of people leave the labour market due to ill health or disability . around 2 . 6 million people be currently off work with a long - term physical or , increasingly , mental health condition . give the positive impact that work have , not just on finance but on health and wellbeing , there be a clear need to do more to help and encourage those people . in a tight labour market , with employer look to fill nearly 1 million vacancy , there be also a wide economic imperative . every time someone return to work , they benefit and everyone benefit . it help the economy to grow , debt to fall and inflation to decline still far . just as importantly , give the waste of human potential that inactivity often represent , there be a moral case to act . that be why , with the £ 2 . 5 billion - worth of investment over the next five year , our back to work plan will help thousand of disabled people and those with health condition to stay in work , or if they fall out of it , to move quickly back with the right support . a key part of our approach be bring together employment and health support , because we know that work and health go hand in hand . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that access to work scheme will be readily available , funded and put in place much more quickly than they be now ? the access to work scheme be a fantastic scheme for encourage those with disability to go into work . it be one of the reason why disability employment be an area in which we have have so much success . in 2017 , we set a 10 - year target of get 1 million more disabled people into work . we exceed that target by 40 % in just five year . access to Work be part of that . the funding for Access to Work , as the hon . Lady will know , can exceed £ 60 , 000 . it be an enormous commitment by a caring and compassionate Government to ensure that those who may need the assistance actually receive it . that approach be at the heart of our new WorkWell service , which be integrate employment and health support at the local level . we will reform the fit note process to ensure that it be not a simple pass to sickness absence , but more of a prescription for the right support that be need to keep someone close to work or to resume work after a period of illness . we be also double the number of placement available on our universal support programme , to help 100 , 000 people each year into role , with up to 12 month of ongoing wraparound support to help ensure that they stay in work . I applaud my right hon . friend and the Chancellor for bring in all these new initiative to make people get back to work . Grimsby have a high unemployment rate than the national average , although it be come down . will he or one of his Ministers commit to meet I to talk about what we can do to encourage more employer to become disability confident and to offer work placement to those people who be currently out of work , but be capable of get back in to work ? I know my hon . friend be a very powerful champion for employment in her Great Grimsby constituency and I will indeed make sure that a Minister be available for the discussion she have seek . give that we know how important high - quality occupational health be for help people with health condition to stay in work , we will support business to develop voluntary minimum level of intervention that employer can adopt to help to improve employee health . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be also introduce measure to reinforce our effort to join up employment and health support by tackle one of the main reason for sickness absence . our expansion of access to mental health service will support almost 400 , 000 extra people through NHS talk therapy , and an additional 100 , 000 place will be make available through individual placement and support to help people who experience severe mental health condition to start and stay in employment . with that significant expansion of extra support , we be break down the barrier that for too many have be a roadblock to the reward of work . that require bold reform . rise — while the world of work have transform significantly in recent year , the way we assess someone ' s ability to work , or to prepare for work , have not change for over a decade — not since the work capability assessment be last comprehensively review in 2011 . since then , we have see the rise of flexible working and new legislation give worker the right to request it from day one of a new job . we have see big increase in hybrid and home working , and there be a much great understanding on the part of employer of the importance of reasonable adjustment and how to support disabled people in the workplace . will the Secretary of State give way ? those change have open many more opportunity for disabled people and those with health condition to participate in work , and for employer to benefit from their talent , but the fact be that too many people who could work be be deny access to those opportunity because they be deem not fit to work or even to prepare for work . the proportion of people go through a work capability assessment and receive the high level of health - relate benefit , where there be no requirement to look or prepare for work , rise from 21 % in 2011 to 65 % in 2022 . however , crucially , one in five in that group would like to work in the future with the right support , and more than half of those who feel that they could work within the next two year see a fear of not be able to return to benefit as a barrier to work . with our new chance to work guarantee , we be remove that barrier and that fear for million of disabled claimant who want to try work . the reform will effectively abolish the work capability assessment for the vast majority of exist claimant who have already be assess and do not have any work - relate requirement . they will be free to do some work without the prospect of have to be reassess and potentially lose their benefit if a job do not work out . it bring forward a major part of our long - term plan , set out in the health and disability White Paper publish early in the year , which will see the work capability assessment abolish completely . in the meantime , for new claimant , we be ensure that the work capability assessment be fit for the modern world of work and reflect the great opportunity for disabled people . to that end , we be update some of the criterion we use to assess whether someone can work or prepare for work , include the " mobilising " and " get about " activity , as well as the substantial risk rule . those reform will come in from 2025 , and it be important to emphasise that we will continue to protect the most vulnerable and those with the most significant limitation . will the Secretary of State give way ? the change will help many more people who can work — who want to work — to gain all the benefit of a job . that be my mission . it be a mission that extend to help anyone who fall out of work , for whatever reason , to get back into work quickly . it be a mission to ensure that a spell out of work do not turn into the scourge of long - term unemployment , because we know that the long someone remain out of work , the hard it be for they to return . that be why we be ensure that people who be deem fit to look for work be put on a strong path to employment , rather than be park on benefit indefinitely . will the Secretary of State give way on that point ? I give way to the hon . Lady . another scheme intend to help ensure that people can get back into work be the expansion of childcare . last week ' s report show we that the Office for Budget Responsibility believe that the Government ' s childcare reform will mean a reduction in welfare spending , and that the £ 5 . 2 billion pledge to childcare will need to be only £ 4 . 6 billion — a reduction of more than 10 % in the funding available for childcare . we all agree that childcare will help people back into work , so will the Secretary of State take this opportunity to pledge on the record that the Government will put directly into childcare the full £ 5 . 2 billion that our constituent be promise in March ? I be expect a devastating , killer intervention , give how keen the hon . Lady be to intervene , but it never quite arrive . she will know that in the Budget , the Chancellor make a substantial investment — the hon . Lady mention the figure £ 5 billion — in childcare . in my Department that be huge , because it mean that we will deal with the retrospective nature of the first month ' s payment , and that the amount available to those wish to take advantage of childcare will be increase by some 49 % . through our back to work plan , we be phase in more intensive support and more rigorous requirement on jobseeker much early in their claim . we be accelerate the point at which claimant be require to undergo a more intensive 12 - month work - search regime , which will kick in six month , rather than nine month , after the start of a claim . anyone who have not move into work by the end of that will be require to accept a mandatory work placement or other intensive activity to improve their chance of employment . for those who refuse that support , it be right that there should be consequence . if a claimant do not accept those new condition without good reason , their universal credit claim will be close . as a result , no claimant should reach 18 month of unemployment in receipt of their full benefit if they have not take every reasonable step to comply with jobcentre support . we will back that up with close monitoring to ensure that the rule be be follow , include by track claimant ' attendance at job fair and at interview organise by jobcentre . that will mean that work coach have the information that they need to know whether claimant be meet their commitment . as part of this more rigorous approach , we will continue look at the impact of more intensive support at seven week into a claim be deliver through our additional jobcentre support . these back to work reform strike at the heart of the quid pro quo that define the contract between the state and individual . we be say , " the Government will provide you with the support you need to move into work , but if you fail to keep your side of the bargain — if you refuse to engage or ignore available job opportunity — we will stop your benefit . " I do not think that many people will object to the idea that those who can work should work , and that the Secretary of State ' s measure to get people who be capable back into work should be adopt . however , he will be aware that the Work and Pensions Committee have recently be consider vulnerable people who be entitle to benefit but do not get they . what safeguard can he provide to guarantee that the health of people who be ill be not make bad by the pressure that some jobcentre will apply in try to meet his target ? the hon . Gentleman raise a really important point . I have great respect for he , and I have appear before the Select Committee and be cross - examine by he . he be right to raise those kind of concern . they be concern that we think about on a daily basis in my Department , to make sure that we get it right . the regime I be outline be for people who have be intensively support for 18 month during their job search , who be fit and able — so they be not the people the hon . Gentleman describe — and who , when present at that point with the opportunity for work , decline that work . I think most people up and down the country would feel that it be right that there be consequence at that point . when it come to those who can not work — those who be long - term sick or have significant disability — I want more than anybody else , and as much as any other person in this House , whichever side they may be on , to make sure that , as a civilised society , we be there to support they , no question ask . but we can only do that for the most vulnerable in our society if we have a fair system that carry the support of the general public and can fund itself in the way we need it to . our back to work plan be about put fairness at the heart of our welfare system : fairness for claimant who play by the rule and try their good , and fairness for taxpayer who contribute to the system . contrast that with the Opposition , who have no plan . the only serious proposal they have for welfare reform be to water down benefit claimant ' requirement to work , which could cost £ 2 billion . that be not just reckless but unfair . it be no wonder that Labour have never leave office with unemployment low than when it enter it . it be no wonder that under Labour , youth unemployment rise by over 40 % , unemployment increase by over 1 million , and more than 1 million people be leave to languish on out - of - work benefit for almost a decade . that be not a record in office ; it be a national disgrace . on Labour ' s watch , countless life be leave to ruin . the puddle of nihilism that be the Opposition Front Bench have no plan . Labour Front Benchers carp and vacillate from the sideline , suck their tooth and dither , transfix on the one hand by the fairer approach that they know in their heart the public demand , but frighten stiff on the other hand by the rank and file behind they . be the truth not rather simple , Mr Deputy Speaker ? they have no plan because compassion demand courage , and by their omission they tell we that they have neither . this autumn statement protect the poor and most in need , reward work by cut taxis and increase pay , and take the long - term decision on welfare reform by help people into work , grow the economy and change life . I call the shadow Secretary of State . my constituent David have a 30 - year - old son with autism and severe obsessive compulsive disorder . David say that despite all the challenge his son face , he have recently move into independent living and be work really hard to try to find a job . David ' s son have lot of skill , especially in computing and research , but because of his autism and , particularly , his ocd , he need an employer who understand his condition and will give he a real chance and offer he the work flexibility that someone in his situation need . he be do everything he possibly can to find work . he recently apply for a job at Tesco and be really pleased to get an interview , but because the job require a lot of overtime and there be limit on how many hour he can take because he be on employment and support allowance , he could not take up the offer . this be the reality face many sick and disabled people across Britain today . they want to work not just for the money , but for the sense of purpose , dignity , independence and self - respect that work bring . they deserve a Government who back their effort and aspiration and who will tear down the barrier to their success , but under this Government nothing could be far from the truth . the last few week have see the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and the Work and Pensions Secretary rail against the soar number of people out of work due to long - term sickness . it be as if , after 13 long year , this have nothing to do with they , but these problem have happen on their watch and they only have themselves to blame . Britain remain the only country in the G7 where the employment rate still have not return to pre - pandemic level , and 2 . 6 million people be now shut out of work due to long - term sickness , which be the high number since record begin . what do the Government expect when they have drive the NHS into the ground and let waiting list soar to 7 . 8 million , and when social care have be force to its knee ? and what be the result ? there be more and more people over 50 out of work due to long - term sickness , with people struggle with bad hip , knee and joint leave strand on NHS waiting list and wait for treatment in discomfort and pain . many of they be woman who be try to care for their elderly parent or other sick and disabled relative at the same time , with precious little help from an unreformed social care system after 13 year of this Government . the number of young people out of work due to long - term sickness have double over the last decade and now stand at more than 230 , 000 . much of that be drive by mental health problem , but it be compound if such a young person lack basic qualification and life in a part of the country — often a town or coastal area outside our large city — that be struggle economically . we know from brutal experience the terrible consequence that long - term youth unemployment bring , and all these problem be far bad in poor part of the country . the grim reality be that someone be twice as likely to be out of work due to ill health if they live in the most deprived fifth of area in England than if they live in the least deprive fifth , with rate of worklessness due to long - term sickness among the over - 50 rise three time fast in the north of England than in the south . this be the reality of Conservative Britain , and it be such an unforgivable waste . it be a waste of individual talent and potential when million of people who want to work be write off because they can not get the support they need to get back on their foot . it be a waste for british business , which desperately need to recruit staff and use the skill and experience of everyone in our country to thrive and succeed . it be an appalling waste of taxpayer ' money too , with taxpayer pay an extra £ 15 . 7 billion a year in high benefit bill and lose tax revenue compare with before the pandemic . what be minister propose to deal with a problem so serious that the OBR say it be a significant risk to fiscal sustainability , drive high taxis and weaken our growth prospect ? we hear a lot last week about how more sick and disabled people can work from home . let we put to one side that , barely 18 month ago , the last Prime Minister but one , the then right hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip , say that work from home do not work , and the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) claim that homeworke reduce productivity and lead to high taxis . I be a strong supporter of home and hybrid work but the reality be that by far the high level of homeworke be among people earn £ 50 , 000 a year or more . two third of people who work from home have a university degree , compare with only around one in 10 of those with no qualification . do we hear anything from the Government about get sick and disabled people the degree and professional qualification they need to secure these high - pay work - from - home job , or about how to get the internet access , computer , home adaptation aid and other support that they need , give that so many disabled people be live in poverty ? we do not . instead , as I be afraid the Secretary of State repeat today , we hear a rehash of old plan that would not be need if they have work in the first place , and of measure so inadequate , unambitious and ineffective that they will fail to tackle the root cause of worklessness and get Britain work again . the much - laud reform to fit note and the new " expert group " on occupational health to drive improvement in employee health at work be both announce six year ago , in the " improve life " strategy that the Chancellor publish when be he be Health Secretary back in 2017 . the new mandatory work placement be first announce back in 2011 , when the Government say jobseeker who need initial support to get back to work can be refer on to mandatory four - week work placement . I be all in favour of work placement and well occupational health , which I have campaign for in my constituency for year , but reannounce old programme that clearly have not work be not a plan for success . as for the Government ' s change to the work capability assessment , Labour have be warn for year that benefit assessment be not fit for purpose and should be replace with a simple , clear system that get decision right the first time and focus on what people can do , not just what they can not , as part of much wide reform that give practical help and support to get people into work and to stay in work . but that be not what the Government be propose and their plan be not a recipe for success . that be not just my assessment , or the assessment of disabled people ' s organisation and charity ; it be what the Office for Budget Responsibility say in its response to the autumn statement . a reasonable person might think that the result of a successful back to work plan would probably start with few people out of work due to long - term sickness and disability , but that be not what the Government ' s plan achieve : the OBR say that 600 , 000 more people will be on sickness and disability benefit after the Government ' s plan . might we expect a high overall employment rate ? sorry , wrong again : the OBR forecast that this will remain static at just 60 . 6 % . what about low spending on sickness and disability benefit overall ? I be afraid we would be wrong again ; the OBR say that spend on sickness and disability benefit will increase by a staggering £ 33 billion over the forecast period — that be up by a whopping 75 % . that be the result of the Government ' s plan . Britain desperately need an alternative plan to get Britain work again , and that be what Labour will deliver . our top priority will be ensure that everyone who can work , do , because right to taxpayer support must go hand in hand with the responsibility to take up work and training when they be offer . condition have always be part of the social security system since the original Beveridge report , and under Labour that will always remain the case . but Beveridge also say that the state have a responsibility to do everything within its power to help people get back on their foot , include through an nhs that focus as much on prevention and rehabilitation as on cure , and an economy that deliver full and productive employment across the country . that be why Labour ' s fully cost , fully fund plan will tackle the root cause of worklessness , drive down nhs waiting list , overhaul jobcentre , transform skill , reform social security and make work pay . that start with our long - term plan for the NHS , because we know that a healthy nation be the key to a healthy economy . we will invest an extra £ 1 . 1 billion a year , pay for by abolish the non - dom tax status , to provide 2 million more NHS appointment and clear the NHS backlog . we will recruit 8 , 500 more mental health staff , with support in every school and in every community to tackle mental health problem early on , pay for by close private equity bonus loophole , because when half of all serious mental illness start before the age of 18 , we have to get that help and support early on . we will go far still . we will overhaul jobcentre , so that they provide personalised help tailor to individual need — not the one - size - fit - all approach that drive too much of what the Government do . Jobcentres will also have new duty to work in partnership with the local NHS , employer and other . there will be a new focus on help people to progress out of low pay , because we do not just want people to get a job ; we want they to get on in their job and to use their talent and skill to the full . that be crucial to improve productivity and put money in people ' s pocket . rise — I look forward to the Secretary of State ' s intervention . the hon . Lady have substantially describe our plan . what she have not say be whether she support it . do she support our plan ? I do not support a plan that lead to £ 33 billion more spending at the end of the forecast period and 600 , 000 more people on sickness and disability benefit because the Government have fail to tackle the root cause of worklessness or to put a proper plan in place . I know that the Secretary of State be desperate to say that people on the Opposition Benches do not support condition or the requirement to work , but work be our party ' s name . we believe that the benefit of work go beyond a payslip to the dignity and self - respect that good work bring . we will devolve employment support , so that it work for local issue and local need , because the man , or even woman , in Whitehall can never know what be good in Leicester , Liverpool or Leeds . instead of demonising disabled people , we will put in place a proper plan to ensure that those who can work , do . our " into work guarantee " , back by the Centre for Social Justice and the Social Security Advisory Committee , will provide real incentive for sick and disabled people , allow they to try work without fear of lose their benefit if thing go wrong . it seem that the Government have finally nick our proposal , just as they do with our NHS workforce plan . I have no idea what take they so long . unlike the Government , however , who have let wait for access to work support soar , we will drive those wait down so that people can get the adaptation , equipment , travel and other support when they need it , rather than have to wait for week on end . that be not all . our mission to break down the barrier to opportunity will overhaul skill , so that no one be ever write off , whatever their age , include with new technical excellence college and by reform apprenticeship . we will make work pay with a real living wage and by ban zero - hour contract and fire and rehire . we will help parent balance work and family life with breakfast club in every primary school and more right to flexible work through our new deal for work people . above all , our drive mission in government that will drive everything we do will be get growth across every part of our country , because that be the key to our future success . we will get Britain build again by overhaul plan with ambitious new housing target and first dibs for first - time buyer . we will get Britain invest again , provide the long - term certainty and stability that business need , which have be so fatally undermine by this Government . with our national wealth fund , we will leverage private sector investment to create the job of the future and make Britain a clean energy superpower . we will get Britain innovate again with our modern industrial strategy and plan to make this country the good place to start up and grow a business . this autumn statement , hot on the heel of the damp squib of a King ' s Speech , prove — if proof be ever necessary — that after 13 long year , the Government have run out of road and run out of idea . conservative voter , and even Conservative Members , could be forgive for wonder what on earth their party be for . they say that they be the party of low taxis , but the tax burden be the high for 70 year , and work family be pay £ 4 , 000 a year more in taxis in this Parliament alone . they promise to take back control of our border and stop the boat , but so far this year 27 , 000 people have arrive on small boat this year , their flagship Rwanda policy be in tatter , and , at 745 , 000 , net migration be the high record in history . the conservative claim to be the party of home ownership , but home ownership have fall under this government , with couple now have to spend on average a decade save for their first deposit , up from only three year under Margaret Thatcher . the armed force have be cut and cut again , with the Army now employ a third few troop than it do in 2010 , despite all the risk and threat that we face . our criminal justice system be on its knee , with violent crime rise , court backlog soar and judge be tell not to jail convict criminal because the Tories have fail to build enough prison . so much for be the party of law and order . that be before we even consider the dire state of our public service , where our school be literally crumble , patient be leave die in ambulance , and local government be on its knee . Britain deserve so much well than this . I know from talk to people across the country , from Hastings to Erewash and from Swindon to Selby , that they be desperate for change , but the conservative can not be the change from 13 year of their own failure . under the leadership of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , we have change the Labour party , and we stand ready to change the country . let we have a general election , and let we have it now . rise — Order . before I call John Redwood to speak , I inform the House that I apologise that I be absent at the beginning of today ' s sit due to a change in flight time after spend the last 30 hour meet my counterpart in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories follow the devastating crisis in Israel and Gaza . I thank my counterpart for meet I at this sad and difficult time . my advice for Back Benchers be to take up to eight minute . if we can try to work to that , we will get everybody in on the same basis . I have my business interest declare in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . underneath the exchange of word , I welcome the outbreak of agreement , give that the Labour party now strongly support the idea of help more people into work . I suspect that the opposition will not vote against the main item in the autumn statement because they understand that the Government have have success in keep so many people in work and promote employment over the year , despite some extremely difficult situation . they also understand that that be an important thing for a responsible Government to do , and not just to get the benefit bill down . as Labour have eloquently say , life can be so much more worth while when people have suitable work , suitably support , that give they a sense of purpose and of contribute to their community . I wish to draw brief attention to the issue of get inflation under control and the inadequacy of forecast by the Office for Budget Responsibility and the Bank of England . it be extremely difficult for minister to conduct consistent policy when the forecast be zinge around so much and give different and often mislead idea of what be feasible and what be not . I welcome the other place ' s most recent report on the Bank of England , which highlight how the Bank have be unable to come up with realistic inflation report over the last three year and have therefore take inappropriate action . first , it loosen monetary policy in the covid recovery phase , and now its monetary policy be too tight as it seek to adjust its past mistake . I hope that the Bernanke review will get on with the important task of adjust the Bank ' s model and come up with a well answer to help guide our counsel , and particularly those of our Ministers . I find it odd that we have a Monetary Policy Committee that be not interested in money and credit . as the other place ' s report suggest , perhaps it should look at put money and credit into its thinking — more diversity of thought be recommend — and into the model to try to get they to work . what be the point of the committee sit around try to make decision if the main datum it be use — namely , what it think the inflation rate will be — can be massively out ? it think that the inflation rate would stay at a pretty consistent 2 % , when it be en route to 11 % . that be why , for many month , the Monetary Policy Committee do not take appropriate action to rein in potential inflation . now it be pretty sure that inflation will come under control , but it still have have difficulty and be constantly have to change its inflation forecast in the meantime , as have the OBR . the review rightly point out that when look at money and credit in the economy , we need to look at the experience elsewhere in the world . of the five most important central bank of the world , include the Bank of England , those in Asia have live through exactly the same big escalation in food and energy price as a result of the dreadful war in Ukraine . the two major central bank economy in Asia be very vulnerable , because they import a lot of food and energy , but their inflation stay around 2 % , whereas the three western central bank , include the Bank of England , take much more aggressive monetary action , print a lot of money and buy an awful lot of bond , and experience the inflation rate go up to around 10 % . they should pause and ask why . the review also rightly say that the Bank of England should be more accountable to Parliament — not to the Government , in any way to prejudice its independence — because it be in the process of lose we the most colossal sum of money . successive Chancellors have guarantee the Bank of England against all loss from their bond buying programme , which start under Labour at the end of the first decade of the century and be escalate by the current Government in response to covid . we be now look at a possible loss of £ 170 billion , base on the late figure that it have reveal . every penny of that have to be pay by the Treasury on behalf of taxpayer as and when it be incur . there be absolutely no need for the Bank of England to make those loss big and more immediate by wade into the market at the moment and sell those bond in a hurry , at very depressed price — price that the Bank have deliberately depress in order to get interest rate higher . it could follow the European Central Bank , which wisely be not sell its bond at a loss in the market but be await their retirement when they fall due for repayment , when the loss will be less but it can still shrink the balance sheet , which be the main thing it wish to do . I hope the Government will look at that , because it have always be a dual - control policy : the bond buying require the signature of successive Chancellors of the Exchequer . it be a matter of legitimate concern for this House when the loss be so colossal , and there be a direct impact on all public expenditure figure , public borrowing and so forth , exclude the Bank of England . as many in the debate will know , we look at the figure both cum the Bank the England and ex the Bank of England . the ex the Bank of England figure look very poor indeed . I welcome measure in the autumn statement to promote more growth , which be crucial . the way to get inflation down fast be to promote more capacity , so any measure that get we more capacity be welcome . that be why I be particularly keen that we be much kind to the self - employ and small business . they can do more work immediately , but some of the tax penalty still weigh on they , prevent they from get self - employ status or win contract , or prevent small business from grow quickly enough . I repeat my urging for Ministers to look at that : more capacity would be the good way to get inflation down . I will put in one final plea to Ministers to find some money to cut the taxis on energy . they be make we extremely uncompetitive and be keep inflation high for long . it would be a win - win to get some of the taxis on energy down . we now come to the SNP spokesperson . against a pretty horrendous economic backdrop , it be with bated breath and no little trepidation that we on the SNP Benches wait to see what the Chancellor would drop . the backdrop be certainly about as far remove as anyone could ever have hope it would have be go into such a crucial period . not only be GDP per capita still not above 2019 pre - pandemic level , but the UK be expect to suffer the big fall in living standard since record begin in the 1950 . Most people be expect to be bad off in 2027 than they be in 2019 . real income be also expect to be low in 2027 than they be in 2019 . a typical household will be bad off by approximately £ 694 per annum by 2027 - 28 as a result of the policy of this Conservative Government who be so adamant , in the face of all outcome and fact , that they get the big decision right . that be certainly not bear out by the outlook for the economy under their stewardship . sadly , there be nothing at all in the Chancellor ' s statement that offer any kind of meaningful change for the million of people in Scotland and elsewhere who be really struggle right now against that economic backdrop . last week ' s announcement be a clear reminder for people in Scotland , if any be need , that we can not hope to build a fair , dynamic economy while be tie to UK Governments who , through their action , do not reflect the preference , choice or value that people consistently express at the ballot box when they go to vote . on the statement , there be the old proverb about the couple who stop for direction and be tell , rather unhelpfully , " I wouldn ' t be start from here . " let we not be in any doubt : we certainly would not wish to be start from here . we would not wish to be labour with the aftermath of Brexit , which have permanently give the UK economy the effect of try to drive a car with the handbrake wedge firmly on . we certainly would not be come off the back of the catastrophic Budget drive by the right hon . member for Spelthorne ( Kwasi Kwarteng ) and for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , which blow up the economy . despite that , and in spite of everything , the Chancellor do have slightly more headroom — about £ 20 billion — than have be forecast . the question be : how would he seek to put that to work ? I will start with the few positive I can find . the uplifting of benefit by 6 . 7 % in line with the high rate of inflation really be the least the Chancellor could have do . it will still leave too many people struggle and wonder how they be go to pay their bill . it be the very least that should have be do on uplift the rate . uplift the local housing allowance be important . my party call for , and we welcome , allow rate of housing benefit to be pay at rate that more closely match where the market actually be . a freeze in whisky duty certainly do not undo the damage of the spring Budget , where a 10 . 1 % levy be whack on the spirit , but at least it make thing no bad . if the House will permit I , I would like to take the opportunity , while I have a captive audience on the Treasury Bench , to explain why whisky duty matter . the Scotch whisky industry support 10 , 000 job in Scotland and 42 , 000 job across the whole of the UK . it also represent 25 % of total UK food and drink export . one would think that this be an industry that the Government would want to look after , nurture , take care of and give every possible opportunity to succeed . the level of duty affect domestic consumption and also affect the investment that go into support those job . but here ' s the rub : it also impact how other jurisdiction in key market , particularly the asian market , react , because many of they take their cue from the level of duty set by the UK Government . if they see the UK Government set a rate of duty where there be a gigantic differential between indigenous spirit such as Scotch whisky and other drink in the market , then they have absolutely no qualm about follow suit . that depress potential sale in key emerge market and reduce the opportunity we have to drive growth and innovation in that key sector at home . as for the big picture , nothing in the Chancellor ' s statement offer meaningful change to the million of people out there who be suffer at the moment . what the statement do offer be a clear reminder that , as I have say , the key power over the command height of the economy will do nothing for Scotland while they continue to remain under the control of government who do not share the value that people vote for . sadly , as the soar cost of household bill outpace the limited help that be on offer in the statement , the reality be that what be offer be far too little , come far too late for the squeeze majority of household . the SNP set what I think be some pretty basic fundamental test for the statement : a relatively small number of ask that could nevertheless have make a big difference . we ask for a £ 400 energy rebate , something that the UK Government have sadly fail to provide although energy bill continue to be roughly double what they be in 2021 — and moreover , the day after the statement the energy price cap be increase by a further 5 % . we challenge the UK Government to match the council tax freeze by the SNP Government in Edinburgh , which will put a disproportionately high amount of money into the pocket of the low earner . we also challenge they to match the game - change scottish child payment of £ 25 a week , another measure that be put thousand of pound into the pocket of those who need it most . that payment be highlight in a recent blog by the London School of Economics as one of the key reason why the level of child poverty in Scotland — although far too high — be still significantly low than it be in any other part of the UK . the UK Government could also have give some respite to hard - press homeowner , many of whom be look down the barrel of significant increase in their mortgage payment as a result of high interest rate . they could have do that by introduce mortgage interest rate relief , but they choose not to do so . for my part of Scotland , the north - east , we challenge the UK Government to match what the Scottish Government be do in kick - start the energy revolution , the green transition that we need — to match the £ 500 million set aside purely for the north - east — but we get nothing , although we know how crucial that energy transition be to ensure fairness , retain human capital and prosperity , and deliver the change that not only our economy but our planet need . we be invite to believe that the goal of the statement be growth . let I draw attention to two key area in which the UK Government have , in my view , be find to be badly want . the first be capital spending . there be obviously pressure to maintain exist asset , as we all know from the emergence of the problem that reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete have cause in many public sector building construct over the past 40 year . we can see the waste cause by overspend : the horrendous waste of money represent by some of the station in central London on the Elizabeth line , a railway that do go ahead , and by the cancellation of HS2 and the bit of that line that do not go ahead . however , we need to recognise the importance not just of private sector capital expenditure , but of the key driving , galvanise force that capital expenditure from the Government and the public sector can have . it drive and encourage investment from the private sector , and , crucially , it increase the productive capacity of each and every one of we . it be therefore unfathomable that the UK Government should cut the Scottish Government ' s capital budget by 6 . 7 % between 2023 - 24 and 2027 - 28 — a figure that will potentially become even high if inflation persist at its current level — all the while refuse to devolve long - term borrowing power . secondly , there be a persistent negative when it come to research and development . there be part of the UK that punch pretty well above their weight in that regard , most obviously the south - east of England and London but also Scotland . however , there be other part , such as the region of England and also Wales , where R & D spending be significantly below the share of gdp , and also below the share of the population that might be expect to be able to attract it . beyond that , the UK ' s investment in research and development consistently lag that of EU competitor such as France and Germany , which be a major drag on long - term growth and economic opportunity for all our constituent . look through the additional spend and revenue forgone as a result of the statement , it seem to I — I be happy to be prove wrong — that the Government be commit more to return full business rate to the combined authority in Greater Manchester and the west midland than they be to research and development or anything that might drive that forward . lest anyone assail I , I have absolutely no grudge against the west midland of England or the Greater Manchester combine authority — more power to they ! I do not know whether the Greater Manchester combine authority extend to Chorley , Mr Speaker — we be in Lancashire . perhaps some reflect benefit will come through . those authority be entitle to every penny that they can get back from this government , and I wish they well in that endeavour , but it pale in comparison with the strategic importance of research and development , in policy term and numerically . until the Government get to grip with the long - term lack of investment in our public sector , our human capital , our physical capital and our r & D , we can expect the country to lag behind . it be no secret that I come here as a supporter of scottish independence . I would dearly love to see government in Scotland be able to make their own budget , constrain only by the limit of their own resource , their own choice , their own imagination and their own political mandate , and with restriction place on they by nowhere else . but until that day come , we be stick with what this Government and potential UK government come forward with , which , I have to say , we find badly want . the House , on both side , want to get Britain grow , and that be a great statement of intent . I be delighted that the Opposition party agree with the Government and the conservative party on that . I hope they will also agree that it be important that people keep more of what they earn , because they have earn it , they deserve it and that be how we will create the right work incentive to grow the economy in the year ahead . I want to put on record my support for the change to national insurance , which will be a really important step in deliver exactly that . the fact that 27 million people will be get a tax cut and that someone employ on a wage of £ 35 , 000 will be £ 450 well off be an excellent step in the right direction , and I hope there will be more to come . I also welcome the change for the self - employ , because it be crucial that we focus not only on those employ in large business but on those who work for themselves . they be the striver who get up every morning look for new opportunity , not only for themselves but for their family and for our wide economy . it be also important for both group , whether they be employ or self - employ , that there be fairness in the system , and that be why it be right that welfare be look at again . it be important that this country have a safety net . across the House , everyone agree with that simple premise . those who fall on hard time , those who find themselves in difficulty and those who have particular need that mean they can not work at a point in their life deserve our support , and I know that the country be with we on that . but those who do not seek work be the people that the Government be rightly look at again . I know that the people out there who we work for , the people who pay taxis , be on the Government ' s side as we ensure that those who do not seek work be not provide with the support of generous taxpayer across this country . I also give credit to the Government for the abolition of the lifetime allowance , which be announce early than the autumn statement . again , this be an important statement of intent because it create the right incentive for people to be able to work in this country . that include people who want to work long , give that our health be consistently well and that we can work well into what be traditionally see as retirement . by seek to reverse the change , the Labour party be wrong . it would price out — tax out — doctor , policeman and teacher from public service at their peak . labour ' s plan to restore the lifetime allowance would cripple those who want to continue work and contribute to our economy and society , which be something that we should be welcome ; I certainly do . I say that I hope this be a starting point and that the Government will go far — I believe it be crucial that they do . although childcare be an important issue for many people in this country , family - friendly taxation be arguably more important . many people choose to use informal form of childcare , and many people want to spend more time with their child during their early year . indeed , 74 % of woman poll say that they want to spend more time with their child , particularly before they start school , and two third want to spend all their time with their child before they start school , but they can not because the support be not there in the tax system . that make we an outlier — family be tax about 26 % more in this country than in our OECD counterpart . it be a question of fairness . individual pay less tax than the OECD average , but family pay more . I hope the Government will look at that in the month ahead . indeed , I hope they will look at the excellent report from the Centre for Policy Studies , to which I happen to contribute , outline some of the option . the SNP spokesman , the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) , talk about the squeeze middle . it be crucial that tax threshold — particularly the 40p threshold — be review . it be wrong of the SNP to say that it be here in defence of the squeeze middle , when the squeeze middle be the one be tax the hard north of the border . we must go far , too , to prove that we be different from the SNP , and that we recognise that people who strive to progress in their career , who strive to earn more money , should be reward . I be lead to believe that , have the 40p threshold remain index - link from the time of Nigel Lawson , it would now be in the order of £ 80 , 000 , so there be much furth to go to make sure the threshold do not affect police sergeant , teacher with 10 year ' experience and the like . that be not its intended purpose . again , if we be keen to make work pay , and if we be keen to create the right incentive in our economy for people to try to secure more hour , to secure a promotion or to set up their own business , we need to make sure the tax system reflect that . in addition , those who have do the right thing all their life by save hard and put their hard - earn money into their family home should not be penalise . it be crucial that the Government look again at lift the inheritance tax threshold from £ 325 , 000 to perhaps £ 1 million , as be propose by the former Chancellor , George Osborne , in 2007 . this would simply do what the conservative party say it have always want to do , and I hope the Front Bench will look at that in the month ahead . I be conscious of time , so I will move on to spending reduction and capital receipt . when the government cancel High Speed 2 , I wonder whether they consider privatise the operation , rather than sell off the land piecemeal . there be an opportunity here to build infrastructure for the future , but for the private sector to do it and for the Government to get a capital receipt now . I hope the Government would welcome that , because it be wrong to stymie infrastructure for the future , but it be right that taxpayer ' money be well spend on road project across this country . there be a huge amount of spending across Government . one example be in the Department for Transport , where a huge amount of money be be spend on so - call active travel . this be the left get what it want , which be everyone move from their own private transport into Government - control transport , or be force to walk or cycle in 15 - minute neighbourhood . that be not what the people of this country want . they do not want blanket 20 mph speed limit , so those be the sort of cut we should seek . we now come to a maiden speech . I call Sarah Edwards . I be grateful to be able to make my maiden speech in this debate on the autumn statement . for many people , the primary concern be how they will get through to the end of the month . pocket be empty , cupboard be bare and many be fill with despair . I must apologise , for I know a maiden speech should start with a more uplifting tone , but I would be remiss , in my place on these green Benches , if I forgot to be a voice for my constituent and simply glossed over the crisis in which they find themselves . it be only right that I pay tribute to the many community organisation that have stitch together the supportive fabric that many now rely upon and the thread that hold it together , such as Heart of Tamworth , whose hub provide a solace from that despair , whether it be through the dementia caf é or the food pantry . like a quilt , it always have a warm welcome . the people of Tamworth and the village vote for a prosperous future and for change , and it be to my constituent that I turn first . I thank they for place their trust in I to restore their voice in this House . I be immensely proud to represent the great constituency of Tamworth , complete with its spectacular village , and I will endeavour to champion the issue that matter to my constituent at every opportunity . I be proud to be Tamworth ' s first female MP . woman have be able to stand for Parliament only since 1918 . to date , just 563 female mps — not even amount to a full House — have be elect . that set my recent by - election victory , with the second large swing since 1945 , in an even starker light , make I even prouder to have be elect against the odd . I draw a parallel with my predecessor Brian Jenkins who , also as a by - election candidate , be elect against the odd in 1996 . I be grateful to he for his support during my campaign . I be elect with the knowledge that Tamworth boast a unique history , have be fortify in 913 with the building of Tamworth castle by Æ thelfl æ d , the lady of the Mercians , whose leadership legacy leave behind that stunning heritage asset adore by the town and visitor alike . our sense of identity be root in the story of the past , and the historic market town of Tamworth be proud of its medieval heritage . with my own passion for heritage , the honour of represent a place with so much tangible heritage be hard to articulate , but I intend to find creative way to support the regeneration of Tamworth through its priceless heritage and , in particular , its high street , which so many people have tell I need regenerate . People like Sam , a female entrepreneur who run Roasters , which have be a staple part of the high street for more than 30 year , ensure that people can always get a hot pork sandwich , complete with the crackli , crackly crackling they will ever crunch . or woman like Sarah , who run Christopher ' s and provide the town with a gorgeous boutique hotel and restaurant . she keep the business go despite the turmoil that face hospitality during the pandemic . the Tamworth Co - operative Society be still an integral part of the town and have feature greatly in its development . found by philanthropist and social entrepreneur William MacGregor in 1886 , it champion , above all else , fair price and quality product for the poor and working class , fly in the face of the profiteer shopkeeper of the time . as a parliamentarian , it be also important to be humble and not to brag about my constituency , so I will refrain from tell the House that we be also home to the Tamworth Tap , which this year be name by the campaign for Real Ale as the country ' s good pub . but a high street can not flourish without people visit and feel safe . concern about antisocial behaviour and a desire to have a close relationship with local police have make my constituent feel that their town centre need more visible policing . it be for this reason that I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor Sir Robert Peel , the distinguished parliamentarian and first leader of the Conservative party , who be know for his commitment to his country first and his party second . he be a visionary who seek to improve the social system that support community , establish the Metropolitan police on the principle of police by consent and its place within the community . the well - know principle that the police be the public and the public be the police be still , to this day , what make police in this country stand apart from that in many other . it be therefore all the more troubling that Tamworth no long have a police station with a front desk or custody cell , and my constituent have raise with I their concern over antisocial behaviour and safety within their community . policing should have a community focus and should be accessible ; it should give people the sense that the police reflect they and their need . that be why I campaign to have a front desk reopen in Tamworth and for the re - establishment of community police . the community I serve include incredible village such as Elford , Edingale , Whittington , Drayton Bassett and Shenstone , whose community library boast an incredible programme of activity and a rather fancy coffee machine that be such a repeat draw that it have almost single - handedly stamp out late return . colleague will know that I be a devoted dog owner and , as a former crufts competitor , I have set my sight on the much - covet , high political accolade : Westminster dog of the year . tamworth be a proud dog own constituency , and I meet many along the campaign trail , include little Reggie the lose Pomeranian . estimate by campaign colleague who be out door knock put Tamworth dog ownership at approximately 100 % , although I be sure the House of Commons Library would rightly disagree with such a loose application of anecdotal evidence . in conclusion , Tamworth have a rich , strong history , and my constituent be rightly proud of it . however , reflect on the current cost of live crisis and the desire for the opportunity to live a life less burden , they rightly want where they live , and the community they be part of , to thrive . the people of Tamworth vote for a fresh start and a positive vision for their town and village . during the campaign , they be clear in set out their priority for change , and have spend over a decade give work people a voice in the workplace , I intend to be their voice and champion in the constituency and here at Westminster . thank you , Mr Speaker . let I welcome you back from your important visit , Mr Speaker , and begin by welcome the maiden speech from the hon . member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) . she will find this to be quite a robust , feisty place , where perhaps courtesy be not what it should be , but we should commend an exemplary maiden speech and wish she all the good in her parliamentary career . I be grateful to catch your eye , Mr Speaker , for this important opportunity to comment on the Chancellor ' s autumn statement , the Government ' s update on the health of the nation ' s finance . member in all part of the House have recognise that the backdrop to any discussion about our economy would not be complete without recognise the unprecedented , seismic event that have impact the nation ' s finance over the past few year : covid and the Ukraine conflict . those once - in - a - generation event would have test any Government , whoever be in power , as indeed they have test government across Europe and beyond . look at how we compare with other nation put the challenge we have experience in perspective . in 2022 , all but one of the G7 nation experience high debt - to - gdp ratio than the UK , so we have stabilise the nation ' s finance . it be time to move forward and grow our economy . it be time to take advantage of the welcome fiscal headroom to increase UK productivity ; to continue to tackle the cost of live crisis by help more people back into work ; and to map out a clear economic vision for the future . I be sure that reduce national insurance , increase benefit payment , along with the national minimum wage , and advance the state pension be change that will be welcome , not just by the public but by Labour . I say to the Minister that I be hope for more support for the tourism and hospitality industry . the value of tourism to Britain be too often overlook . it be worth £ 140 billion to our economy , it account for 6 % of our gdp and 11 % of our workforce be employ in this important sector . I welcome the continue extension of the 75 % rate relief for hospitality , but I would like we to go far , with a permanent reduction in vat for tourism . we see that briefly during the covid crisis . I know that the discussion be take place and perhaps — please — we will see that measure come out of the hat in next year ' s spring statement . tourism be vital to our economy and to Bournemouth , so reduce vat in the tourism and hospitality sector be something I hope Ministers will consider . do my right hon . friend agree that the problem be that the OBR ' s forecasting never give any credit for cut a tax rate in order to get more revenue ? this could be a good example of where that would work . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . the Centre for Economics and Business Research suggest that there be £ 10 billion to be make in lose gdp at the moment , as we be not attract overseas visitor because our taxis be high than those of our continental counterpart . look at the big picture , finance certainly remain tight . the national debt , although fall as a percentage of gdp , as I say , remain too high . our growth , although large than Germany ' s , be not where it should be . give that we be the sixth large economy in the world , we need to look at improve productivity , which remain sluggish , as it have be since 2008 . a lot of these economic debate focus , understandably , on the micro level — the line - by - line budget allocation to Whitehall Departments , and the change to general taxation , benefit and pension — but how all those fiscal jigsaw piece fit together be often overlook . our world be change fast . not only be it become more internationally competitive , but there be a question mark as to what our role actually be . I be remind of what John Foster Dulles , the former US Secretary of State , say : " Britain have lose an empire and not yet find a role . " what we see in the autumn statement be interesting indeed . the world be go digital , as it change every aspect of our life : how we communicate , travel , do business and even strengthen our own security . that be all good news for the UK , as we have the third large tech sector in the world , after the US and China . we be world leader in pharmaceutical , life science , creative industry , aerospace , fintech and artificial intelligence . with some of the good university in the world , along with our globally recognise finance sector , we be well place to become a high - tech superpower — another silicon valley . that be also good news for Bournemouth , because that be exactly where our area focus ; we be focus not just on tourism and financial service , but on the creative industry . I commend the right hon . gentleman for what he say about the pharmaceutical and engineering sector , as we have business in those area in my constituency that can do well . one thing that be need to improve it be review and increase the child benefit threshold — perhaps the Government should consider that . it would enable family that work hard to get more benefit , which they can not do at this moment in time . in the spirit of brevity , let I just say that I 100 % agree with the hon . gentleman on that . I begin by mention the global shock of covid and Ukraine , and place they in context . there be clearly a direct correlation between our economy and our security . about half of our gdp be affect by international headwind . for those of we who follow international event , it be clear that there will be more covid and more Ukraine - sized conflict . our world be become more dangerous , not less . these threat be grow and become more complex and dynamic . there be an increase blurring , with the scale of direct military threat be match by those in the economy and , specifically , in the digital space . with authoritarianism on the rise , we have enter an ever - uncertain era of insecurity , akin to the 1930 , with rise populism , new and dangerous alliance form , increase threat to our international rule - base order and our international institution unable to hold errant nation to account . this be all cause a number of alarm bell to ring on the global order dashboard . arguably , the situation be even more grave than the one in the 1930 , because we also face climate change , cyber threat and the pervasive role of the non - state actor in that equation . so I end by simply call for great investment , include in security and defence . such call may fall on deaf ear , because of all the domestic challenge we face , but I simply say : look at how our fragile stability be fragmenting ; we must be well prepare for the global shock that our economy will face in the long term . we be rekindle our statecraft skill , but please may we see an increase in defence spending in the spring Budget ? rise — order . I have look at the clock and at the number of speaker , and after the next speaker I will impose a seven - minute time limit on speech . I congratulate my new hon . friend the Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) and I wish she well , but she arrive in difficult time , because in 30 year as an MP , I have never see the country ' s finance in such a mess . we have the high taxis since record begin , the high public sector debt since the 1960 and inflation at a 41 - year high , and average household will be £ 1 , 900 bad off by the end of this Government . at the same time , public service be on their knee and the OBR predict a miserable 0 . 1 % growth rate for the fourth quarter . the Government try to pile the blame on other — covid , Ukraine , the middle east and even their own past leader — but the whole Conservative Government have do this , have vote through 13 year of flawed measure and disastrous policy that have not help growth and job , but have intensify inequality and increase child poverty . we have have enough , the country have have enough and Britain deserve well . I will focus on three area that could make a real difference if the Government make different choice . in 2012 , the tax gap — the gap between what HMRC receive and what taxpayer pay — be £ 34 billion . this year , it be up by nearly £ 2 billion , and if tax campaigner calculate it , they would probably triple or quadruple that figure . fail to collect £ 36 billion be massive — that be £ 3 billion more than we spend on the whole of primary education across the UK . those who benefit most from HMRC ' s failure to pursue they be the rich . last year , only 11 wealthy individual be prosecute for tax cheating and only eight be pursue for evasion over two year . however , 420 , 000 people on low income , many not earn enough to pay a penny in tax , be take to court for file their tax return too late . what about the big multinational who still aggressively avoid tax ? TaxWatch ' s analysis of just eight tech company , include Google , Facebook and Apple , show UK profit of £ 9 . 6 billion , but the tax pay amount to a miserly £ 297 million . they avoid £ 1 . 5 billion in UK tax . add the estimate £ 350 billion annual loss through fraud and money laundering , and we be talk about eye - watering sum , yet prosecution and conviction by HMRC have both fall by 75 % in the last five year . this wretched failure to pursue tax avoider , evader , fraudster , money launderer and multinational be a scandalous stain on this government and destroy faith in our system . equally awful be the fact that the Government can not be trust to spend our money wisely . government waste be yet another scandalous stain on the Conservative Government ' s record : £ 15 billion lose to fraud and error across all covid scheme , £ 1 billion overspent on a contract for a new warhead facility , another billion pound lose on the Astute nuclear - power submarine and £ 2 . 2 billion waste on the now abandon HS2 phase 2 project . the bill for the fail asylum support system have go up fivefold in four year and cost we a shocking £ 3 . 6 billion . the staggering cost of meet the need of nearly 300 , 000 homeless family be at least £ 18 billion a year . with service so stretch , the waste of taxpayer ' money because of sheer incompetence be unforgivable . People be struggle while the Government squander . I want to turn to the unfairness in the tax system that the Government deliberately promote . our system be ridiculously complex , open opportunity for aggressive tax avoidance . take the 1 , 180 tax relief , of which 339 be non - structural relief , supposedly introduce to help a particular group achieve a particular policy outcome . we have no idea how much those tax relief cost or whether they be effective , and there be no accountability for the expenditure , because it be all below the line . one hundred relief have be cost , at an estimate £ 195 billion , which be almost double what we spend on local government and double the £ 46 billion spend on defence . that sum account for only a third of the 339 non - structural relief . with little datum , and scant scrutiny and evaluation , we be sit on a time bomb . take , for example , the cost of the research and development tax credit — up from £ 2 . 3 billion to £ 5 . 2 billion in five year , yet without an equivalent increase in R & D investment by company . the patent box relief be introduce to encourage company to commercialise their invention , but have now be exploit as a tax loophole . the moment the KPMG partner second to the Treasury to write the technical rule for the relief leave the Treasury , he produce a brochure entitle " Patent Box : what ' s in it for you " . that relief be cost we £ 1 billion a year . entrepreneur ' relief cost £ 427 million in 2008 - 09 , but that have balloon to £ 2 . 2 billion by 2018 - 19 , the last year for which I could find proper figure . the relief be suppose to encourage investment , but a survey of those who claim it find that only 8 % say the relief have influence their decision at the point of investment . finally , we talk about make work pay , but we have a system in this country whereby the income that people gain from work be tax at a high rate than the income they gain from wealth . no such system can ever justify that we be a country that enable work to pay . the rise in taxation for working - class people have implication for their childcare cost . do the right hon . Lady agree that when it come to childcare cost , it be impossible to make end meet , and that working - class people and those on the poverty line need more help ? unfortunately , I do not see that help . I agree entirely with what the hon . Member say . I simply point out that if we get the money in that be owe to we , spend it wisely and tax fairly , we would be able not only to pay for childcare cost but to have the high - quality childcare that be essential to ensure that we equalise life chance . this Government have fail . they have fail to get the money in , they have waste billion and they have fail to tax and spend in a fair way . trust and confidence have be squander . it be time for they to go . I welcome the autumn statement , which set out clear dividing line between the two party . the conservative party want to grow the cake and the Labour party want to slice it into ever tiny piece . the conservative party understand that we will grow the cake by allow people to fulfil their own potential , rather than imagine that the only possibility be increase public spending , with the size of the cake set . I welcome the autumn statement , but first let I talk about rhetoric . rhetoric matter when we talk about homelessness , it matter when we talk about immigration and it matter when we talk about welfare . to be absolutely clear , this autumn statement raise benefit for work people by 6 . 7 % and pension by 8 . 5 % . there be a controversial policy that suggest that those who do not engage with the welfare system should , if they proceed in that way for an unreasonable period , lose some of those benefit . it be easy to misrepresent that policy and to pretend that it be a bid to remove benefit from people who deserve they . the reality could not be further from the truth . this be a policy like the sugar tax ; it aim to alter people ' s behaviour . in this case , it aim to alter the behaviour of individual receive benefit rather than of corporation that make fizzy drink , but the analogy be , I think , correct . what the policy seek to do be to encourage people to understand that if they do not do the right and responsible thing as citizen of this country and take the work that we know be out there then there should be consequence . that be not nasty ; it be the definition of compassion . we as Conservatives should not be afraid to say that . it be a brave but overdue policy , and we should welcome it . we should also acknowledge that it be part of a policy that will make a profound difference in particular to people who be able , as we now know from the post - covid environment , to take job that involve work from home . I welcome the new condition around flexible working , which the Secretary of State set out in his opening remark . as he say , we know that it be possible to work flexibly , but we also know that there be no nirvana of work from home all the time . I welcome in particular the tone that have be strike by the Chancellor and by the new and very welcome Chief Secretary to the Treasury in the way that they have talk about the right and responsibility of citizen when it come to work . let I turn to the various issue that be loosely talk about as fiscal drag or tax simplification . the reality be that this autumn statement have oversee a tax cut unprecedented in size and scale for a number of year . quite simply , that tax cut have come because of the increase headroom that this Government be now able to take advantage of . the relative complexity of our tax system mean that , unfortunately , we be sometimes suck into an argument about income tax versus national insurance , versus a whole host of other thing . we should be honest that the system be too complex . if we do not have the complexity around national insurance , income tax and a whole host of other thing , we would be able to have a more honest , straightforward and comprehensive conversation about tax threshold , about the right and fair level of tax and about where we as conservative want to lower it to . we would also be able to have a sensible conversation about some of the cliff edge that have inadvertently creep into the tax system , include around childcare and household that unfortunately have two people earn an amount exceed the level where , if a single earner in the household exceed it , the number simply do not add up . that be an inadvertent unfairness and one where I think we would all welcome great simplification . another area where great simplification in this autumn statement be welcome be pension . I welcome the concept of one pot for life , which will allow we to look beyond the multiplicity of pot that people often accrue over the course of their lifetime , but it highlight the increase need for the long - term pension dashboard project to get over the line and underline the fact that there be a great opportunity for welcome project such as open banking to fulfil their potential . all these project rely on great digital literacy among the population , and they rely on the Treasury to make further progress on the digital project that will unleash thing such as the pension dashboard and project such as make tax digital . all these thing will allow great simplification and great fulfilment of potential by a host of different part of our society , and I think we would all welcome some of those project come to fruition as quickly as possible . overall , I welcome an autumn statement that cut taxis for 27 million work people . it see we all benefit , but it also acknowledge that , give the extraordinary few year we have all live through , from covid to the war in Ukraine , there be much that this Government have to continue to be fiscally responsible for . the call to cut taxis be a sensible one , but it must be do in the measured way that this autumn statement begin to do it . the first duty of any Government be to defend the country and keep its citizen safe , but the autumn statement have nothing to say about strengthen our military capability at a time of real concern about the size of our armed force . we be face a real crisis in recruitment and retention at a time when our armed force be run hot , strain themselves to meet grow commitment with less . the defence of the UK start in Ukraine . we should be step up support to help Ukraine through the winter and into 2024 , but the Prime Minister be step back from UK leadership in Ukraine with no new military funding next year . my constituent in Halton be look on in despair as the Government again fail to provide the real - term support to help they get through the tough of time . this autumn statement be yet another crush disappointment at a time when many people in my constituency and across the country consider whether they can afford to heat their home , pay for food , or even meet the basic cost of stay in their own home . the Chancellor seem to have no idea about what matter to real people every day . we know that spiral energy bill be cause huge anxiety for million of people . the Chancellor have tout his national insurance cut as a " victory for work people " , but it will be wipe out immediately by the 5 % increase in the energy price cap . Citizens Advice tell I that more than 50 % of client seek debt advice be spend more money on essential bill and cost than they have come in , and in Halton that figure be significantly high . in 2023 , Citizens Advice in Halton support 1 , 713 client to access the local food bank or other localise social welfare group . that be almost as many as it assist in 2019 , 2020 and 2021 combine . the autumn statement also provide little comfort to those who worry about how the Tory mortgage bombshell will continue to affect they . average rent have increase by 25 % since 2019 , but the local housing allowance have remain static since April 2022 . People need immediate help . by April , many more people will have be evict . our local housing list be stretch to breaking point , and , thank to a lack of action by the Government , that list be get long by the day . People need immediate help . the late figure from Halton Borough Council state that we have have 3 , 156 homeless presentation , an increase of more than 50 % on the previous year . due to the increase in homelessness , there be extreme pressure on the local authority to secure temporary accommodation for homeless resident , but unfortunately demand far outstrip supply . how can the Chancellor claim to be help work people when so many people have to rely on charity simply to put food on the table ? accord to end Child Poverty , 32 . 1 % of child in my constituency be live in poverty . the Resolution Foundation say that personal taxis be go up , not down , with the tax cut announce in the autumn statement dwarf by the previously announce tax rise in the form of the freezing of national insurance and income tax threshold for six year . charity be also on the frontline when it come to support those in the community who face hardship through illness . Marie Curie illustrate the harrowing reality when it tell we that , each year , 90 , 000 people die in poverty in the UK . the Chancellor insist that the good way to tackle poverty be through work , but what do he say to those who be far too seriously unwell to work and will die before they be old enough to claim their state pension ? where be the target support for they ? will he commit to exempt terminally ill people from have to look for work ? the Chancellor have do nothing to address the crisis in local government funding . on a population basis , Halton have lose £ 899 per resident , while the national average cut be £ 581 per resident , a difference of £ 318 . therefore , Halton ' s reduction in funding per head of population have be 55 % great than the national average — a terrible thing for local authority to cope with . council continue to buckle under the strain of rocket demand for social care . to give a local example , 28 % of delay discharge at Whiston Hospital be Halton people who require some form of social care . area that see increase demand need increase support . I continue to hear from family who can not access specialist support for their child in school . once again , education have be leave by the wayside . SEN be in crisis . these be some of our most vulnerable child . local authority and school have no idea how to keep up with demand . they and the child ' s family be in crisis . on top of that , school transport budget for child with special educational need and disability will become unsustainable for local authority nationwide as cost be predict to triple to over £ 1 . 1 billion over the course of this decade . accord to stop school cut , every school in my constituency face cut to its spending power . again , the Chancellor fail to do anything about that in the autumn statement . as a result , school will have to reduce their educational provision , for example by increase class size or reduce individual support . time and again , constituent have contact I to complain that the most basic service be unavailable to they . last month , we lose one of our only remain dentist who provide nhs treatment . a huge number of patient scramble to access emergency dentistry . that be an utter disgrace . other constituent be face year - long wait for operation , while some report that they be unable to access mental health service . that be what be happen in reality on the ground , which the Chancellor ' s autumn statement completely ignore . after 13 year of Tory Government , what be their economic legacy ? People across the country face the high tax burden since the second world war , mainly because of the five - year freeze of personal allowance . household will see the big fall in living standard since the 1950 . growth forecast be dire . for far too many people , the only growth that they will see be that of poverty . the Government have no answer . they have fail to address Britain ' s long - stand productivity problem . public service be in crisis . nothing work . it be a record of unbelievable incompetence by the Government . the autumn statement offer no prospect of change . we know that the time have come for change , but more importantly , the british people know it and they want to get rid of this failing and incompetent Tory Government . I rise to make a few remark in support of the Chancellor ' s autumn statement , emphasise two theme that come out strongly from it . they have be consistent theme for the Government over the past 13 year we have be in office : boost income , particularly for those in the low income bracket , and improve our benefit system to ensure that we have a dynamic labour market and individual can fulfil their maximum potential . before I go into those point , it be worth underline again where we be 13 year ago when we take office . the minimum wage be less than £ 6 an hour , the state pension be less than £ 100 an hour — no pensioner will forget the derisory 75p increase that they get from Gordon Brown — and we have a welfare system where more than 1 million people have be languish out of work for almost 10 year , out of the reach of any meaningful engagement from local job centre . we should not forget either that , while the Labour party might this afternoon present itself as a party of welfare reform , spend restraint and sensible economic , for most of the past 13 year it set its face against every step that we take to try to improve our benefit system . what we have now be not perfect — no benefit system ever be — but it be so much well than what be in place under the previous Labour Government . we know that because Labour Ministers who serve in the Department for Work and Pensions before 2010 be themselves highly dissatisfied with the benefit system . those with particular reforming instinct be do their good , fight an uphill battle to see improvement . we should not trust the Labour party as a party of benefit reform . briefly on boost income , a national living wage of £ 11 . 44 an hour be transformational for constituency such as mine in Pembrokeshire , where for decade there have be a culture of low pay , as there have be right across Wales . thousand of people in my constituency will benefit from that increase to the living wage . increase the state pension by the full triple lock boost will ensure that pensioner continue to see the full value of their pension increase . that come at a cost . all of we who defend the triple lock need to bear in mind that it have significant long - term cost , and we need to speak to how they will be meet in the future , but the triple lock that this Conservative Government introduce in 2010 have be transformational in lift pensioner out of poverty in my constituency , and all across the United Kingdom . one of the reason the triple lock be in place be the confidence and supply agreement between the Democratic Unionist party and the conservative party . it be one of the thing that we insist upon . when it come to give credit for thing , I want to keep the record straight . the hon . Member make a strong point on behalf of his party . lot of people claim credit for the triple lock . again , all of we who defend the triple lock need to bear in mind the long - term cost and be ready to speak to how the country will afford they . the answer that successive government have find of just push the state pension far out of reach by increase the state pension age be not a long - term sustainable plan . on benefit reform , I strongly support what the Government be try to do in link together more closely the work of local jobcentre with that of health authority , health board and the Department of Health and Social Care overall . Successive Ministers have find huge institutional resistance to the NHS and the DWP work together — two massive spending Departments that have lever to do something really positive in get people with long - term sickness and disability back into work . it be really encouraging to see much great level of co - operation than at any time in the past 20 or 30 year . the point that have be make several time this afternoon about obligation be really important . there be speculation that the Chancellor would not uprate working - age benefit by the high level of autumn inflation rate , but he do so . that be entirely consistent with what the Conservative Government have do consistently through the pandemic and the cost of living challenge , which be to help people on the low income . the Government do the right thing and choose to be consistent in that underline the point about obligation , and the social compact that need to be at the heart of our welfare system . government Members have talk about that , as have those on the Labour Front Bench . an adequate benefit system support people on the low income and provide a strong and secure safety net . there need to be a sense of obligation around that as well . as I say , there be Labour welfare Ministers who struggle with how to engage people who have be long - term sick and have long - term health need to get more meaningful interaction , so that they could perhaps begin a journey back to work if that be appropriate . it be one of the big public policy challenge that we as a Government have face . if the Labour party form the next Government , it will wrestle with that , too . government of country around the world that share a similar demographic to ours , with an age population and increase number of elderly and sick people , be wrestle with these challenge . there be no easy solution . do my right hon . friend agree that fundamentally this be just a question of fairness ? it be about support those who genuinely need our help , but when people choose welfare because they choose not to look for work , hard - work taxpayer should not pay the bill . I agree with my right hon . friend to a point . there be always an issue of fairness , and perceive fairness , when it come to the distribution of taxpayer ' money to people . I question whether there be large number of people out there who want to live their life not work or contribute to our society . if I really press they , the people I meet in my constituency who be struggle with long - term illness and have be out of work for a long time , say they would love to be work . they would love to visualise themselves in a job and play a full part in the economy . the truth be that many of they need support . some of they need a bit more than just warm word of encouragement , and that be why I have always defend the appropriate use of sanction and conditionality in our benefit system . this time of assistive technology , flexible working and homeworking should be a new golden age for people who sadly live with long - term health condition to be able to get back into the workplace . I be really pleased that Government Ministers be grapple with that and think about the long - term step that could be take to help people back into work . as I say , that be one of the great public policy challenge of our time . I want to talk about some of the massive challenge we face in Newham , because frankly the autumn statement offer precious little to solve they . I will start with the scourge of knife crime . in Newham , our community have be brutalise by knife attack over many year . August alone see 38 attack that cause injury — the high number for five year — leave many young life destroy , family devastate and community break by fear and struggle to heal . the truth be that social problem make young people vulnerable to the gang grooming that lead to that violence . many young people be grow up with little stability , without even a safe place to call home and with parent rack by the stress of unpayable bill and insecure work . far from inspire confidence , the autumn statement confirm that the average household be set to be almost two grand bad off by the next election than they be at the last . those household will know that 40 % of the benefit come from the autumn statement be go to the wealthy 20 % of the population . that unfairness weaken our entire society , because poverty create vulnerability to groom . it destroy a young person ' s trust that our society can provide a decent chance and a future for they . my community try to work its way out of poverty , yet it be nigh - on impossible . the low quartile of earning in Newham be £ 1 , 792 a month , but pay the low quartile of private rent leave just £ 492 , before food , energy or transport cost , or the cost of raise a family , be even consider . our child know it . they see their parent struggle . gang be use fake job ad to target child on the social media site they use , clearly aim at child who know their parent be up against it — child who want to help make end meet . when mum and dad be have to take on more hour to pay the bill , mean there be no one in the house in the evening or at weekend , that be the impact . those pressure be huge , but Newham ' s housing crisis be truly brutal . ten of thousand of family simply can not afford private rent , and social housing supply remain minuscule compare with the level of need . the consequence be that 8 , 363 child be estimate to be homeless in Newham alone . there be more child trap in temporary accommodation in those 14 square mile than there be in entire region of the country combine — more than in the east midland , Yorkshire and the Humber , and the north - east put together . that temporary accommodation be unsuitable for family , or frankly for anyone , with mould , damp and terrible overcrowding . all that cause chaos in young life . it massively disrupt education and make it hard for teacher , social worker or gps to spot the sign that a young life be go off the rail so that they can intervene . it create add cost for our stretch public service , which be scramble to keep up , and enormous and rapidly increase cost to the council . the council be spend more than £ 20 million a year on temporary accommodation cost alone . that be money that it can not spend on improve child ' s life or on youth work to help to make child at risk of involvement in knife crime more resilient . it can not spend it on keep the street clean or on support our school so that they can deal with difficult behaviour without exclude child and practically hand they over to the gang . I welcome the Government ' s boost to the local housing allowance — I really do . it will do something to slow down the rate at which homelessness be get bad . but , frankly , it be not a solution . far more strategic action be necessary , and so be more recognition that those problem be interconnect and that our council and our public service be well place to solve they . as we know , the Tory pre - election Budget be balance on massive future cut to our public service and our council . the Tories be rob the next government in a last - ditch attempt to save themselves . I honestly do not know how Tory member can look their constituent in the face and tell they that they think the plan cut be practical or achievable . let we face it : our NHS and many other service be on the verge of collapse and utterly fail to deliver for our community . what we be hear from the Government do not match the reality that my constituent see all around they . surely to heavens we must repair our public service and give all our young people a future , with genuinely accessible opportunity in education and in work . we need to restore our child ' s trust in a future where they be truly reward for their contribution to our society and for their massive potential . after 13 year of Tory failure , that will only come about with a Labour Government . the measure announce by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his autumn statement be sensible and responsible and will make a real difference to the people and business across the two Cities . the Government have take a pragmatic approach to deliver tax cut . we all know that the cost of the measure to support business and household through the covid pandemic and the energy price shock cause by Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine drive up spending and mean that tax cut be impractical for a long time . however , as we continue to rebuild our economy , improve productivity and focus on growth , we do so by follow competent and careful economic management . that be why I be pleased to see my right hon . friend the Chancellor announce fully fund tax cut that will have a real impact on both family and business . the autumn statement be the big package of tax cut announce as a fiscal event since the 1980 . for I , there be two major headline . first , there be the permanent extension of the full expense policy , which will act as a springboard to help UK company to invest in the late technology and machinery and create highly skilled job . secondly , of course , there be the 2 % reduction in national insurance — a tax cut for 27 million people , which will ensure that they will keep more of their earning to spend or save as they wish . the Chancellor be also right to prioritise help people into work to boost the economy . just last week , I be pleased to join the then employment Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , on a visit to the italian caf é and deli Ben Venuti in Pimlico , where we discuss the Government ' s new hospitality sector - base work academy programme trial run , in partnership with the trade body ukhospitality , to encourage more people into career in the hospitality sector . that programme , and last week ' s announcement of a furth £ 50 million to support apprenticeship , clearly show that the Government recognise that get people into work , and help they to train , retrain and develop their career — no matter their age or background — be the good way to help people and support the economy . I be delighted that my hon . friend the Member for Hexham be now the Under - Secretary of State for Transport and will see the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill through this place . not only will the autumn statement provide more opportunity for people to get into new and exciting career , but the Chancellor have announce significant support for household . raise local housing allowance rate to the 30th percentile of local market rent in April 2024 will benefit 1 . 6 million low - income household , which will be £ 800 a year well off on average . that will certainly be welcome news for thousand of household across the two Cities . I be proud that my constituency be embrace the life science sector , have attract thousand of job to the Paddington basin development . I be delighted that the Imperial College Healthcare Trust ' s new Fleming Centre be be create in Paddington , back by £ 5 million of seed funding announce in the autumn statement . it be where penicillin be first discover , and the new centre will help we in the global fight against antimicrobial resistance and far establish the two Cities as an important centre for the grow life science industry . I would be remiss not to mention the important work undertake by the City of London Corporation as it strive to ensure that our financial and professional service remain the good in the world , and that the square mile remain the place in which company from every corner of the globe want to do business . we know that that have a massive and positive knock - on effect , support more than two million job across the UK , so it be good to hear that the Chancellor be press ahead on the pension reform that be unveil with the signing of the Mansion House compact in the City in July this year . the measure announce in the autumn statement protect not only economic prosperity but our community . nobody can be immune from the dreadful scene in the middle east . sadly , we have see the repercussion of terror attack , and of the ongoing conflict in Gaza , on our own street . I have be appal by the testimony that I have hear from the jewish community in my constituency , who be genuinely scared of the 1 , 350 % rise in antisemitic incident in London alone . I therefore welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement in the autumn statement of £ 3 million of additional funding this year for the Community Security Trust , and of a furth £ 7 million over the next three year , for organisation such as the Holocaust Educational Trust , to help tackle antisemitism . I must take this opportunity to highlight one measure that , sadly , we do not see in the autumn statement . it be one that would have profound economic benefit for Cities of London and Westminster , the capital and the whole country : tax - free shopping for international visitor . I recognise that the autumn statement deliver support for the retail , hospitality and leisure industry by extend the retail , hospitality and leisure relief scheme , which will continue to provide eligible occupy retail , hospitality and leisure property with 75 % relief on business rate . that be all welcome , but new research from the Centre for Economics and Business Research show that if the former tax - free shopping scheme have not be scrap , the total spending from international visitor would have be £ 3 . 3 billion more in 2022 . the reason for that be the dynamic nature of international visitor ' spending habit . although they would receive a tax break on their shopping , they would still pay vat in restaurant , theatre , pub , bar , club , hotel and , of course , black cab . place such as Knightsbridge and the west end — particularly Oxford Street , Bond Street and Regent Street — have be feel the pinch since international tax - free shopping disappear . large international luxury brand all report see a fall in their revenue compare with their outlet in Milan and Paris . we need that scheme back . the Government recognise the tremendous opportunity that lie ahead for the economy and the United Kingdom , and I applaud the Chancellor for his work to strengthen the economy so that we can now focus on growth and prosperity for all . I look forward to work with he to ensure that the economy continue to bounce back from the pandemic and flourish for year to come . from listen to some Conservative Members , one might think we be in some sort of economic Shangri - La . the only positive element about the autumn statement be that it be not the previous Chancellor ' s statement , so I congratulate the Chancellor — perhaps this could be pass on — on not be the previous Chancellor . in substance , the change of staff in Downing Street mean that the country be not quite as far up the creek without a paddle as we may have be under the last Administration , but that be of small comfort to the million of people who be still pay more for less , so I be sure the Chancellor will understand if I do not give he a high five . he be like a dentist tell the patient that they need only four tooth take out without anaesthetic rather than five , and dress that up as good news . the autumn statement be an act of neglect . the fact from the Office for Budget Responsibility speak for themselves : real growth be down , debt interest be up , inflation be slow but high , and productivity be in its boot . after 13 year of blundering , every indicator be point in the wrong direction . the conservative party have spend month make lofty pronouncement about long - term decision , but the Chancellor ' s statement look no far than the next election . by now , this House and the british public be use to the wide gap between their claim and fiscal reality . do anyone remember the " long - term economic plan " from 2014 ? what happen to that ? what about " strong and stable " in 2017 ? where have that go , and where be northern powerhouse and hs2 ? it be strange that we do not hear any of those phrase in the statement . of course , the Chancellor could not even bring himself to mention " a bright future " — the slogan that adorn his party conference just a few week ago . the statement show that the Conservatives have not learn a single lesson from their 13 year in power . they have not hit one of their fiscal rule in 13 year . once again , we see the old approach , which the public now roundly reject : attack on our public sector , which be always refuse the resource that it need ; and , as we have hear this afternoon , the scapegoating of social security claimant — particularly disabled people — through cut to the social security system , to pay for the Government ' s economic chaos . we can see from the poll that the public be tired of the same old Tory approach put forward in the autumn statement . they be tired of NHS waiting list of nearly 8 million people wait for healthcare , include 14 , 000 people in my constituency and constituent of every Member in this Chamber . almost 200 school be at the point of collapse because the Government decide to halt the Building Schools for the Future programme . the number of bus service have be halve since 2011 , leave more people isolated and unable to access service . and it go on : the housing market be in a parlous state ; mortgage default be go through the roof , if people have one ; and many landlord be out of control and use no - fault eviction . in huge swathe of the country , it be almost impossible for people to get a mortgage , let alone pay it . I will concentrate on two element . first , on tax , the Chancellor try to buy off the electorate with headline - grab change to national insurance , but those policy only thinly conceal the true picture of what be happen under this Government . the frozen tax threshold mean that those who make their living from work will pay ten of billion of pound more while taxis on the wealthy remain largely flat — that be a political choice ; it be as simple as that . over the pandemic , the top 10 % accrue £ 50 , 000 each in additional wealth , accord to the Resolution Foundation . the list go on . in reality , the change to national insurance that be announce last week will be pay for by cut in service . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have show that the statement bake in a real - term cut , to the tune of £ 22 billion by 2028 , to departmental budget . that almost exactly match the £ 20 billion that be spend on the national insurance proposal announce last week , and of course there will be more cut in local government , right across the piece . it have be 13 year of blight , with tax cut pay for by denude public service and implement by a deluded government , and a weak safety net . it be the same old conservative in action . what about national borrowing ? the Tories would have we believe that they borrow less and pay back more , but I will quickly fact - check that claim . the only fact we need to know be that the Tories make it up as they go along : the reality be that they borrow more and pay back less . that be fairly well document — one or two conservative mp may want to ask their researcher to check that with the Library . turn to public service , what be that £ 20 billion of cut go to look like ? it will be dreadful . the Resolution Foundation say that the pain now be propose be " implausible " in its scale . the Institute for Fiscal Studies break down those cut in more detail and find that if some department continue to be protect , that mean 3 . 4 % cut across the board for other . that £ 20 billion of cut mean more bankrupt council , long waiting list in the court and few police — in short , a continue decline in the quality of our life , and more pressure on the social fabric that my hon . friend the Member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) speak about . it all add up to the great fall in disposable income since 1955 . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation call the plan " fundamentally inadequate " to deal with the 4 million people in this country who be in destitution . what we need — what we be all call for , include my community in Bootle — be a general election as soon as possible to get that shower out . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor on his autumn statement , which be well think through , soundly base and properly reason . Post covid , with war in eastern Europe and the middle east and with the ongoing cost of living crisis , his task be an incredibly difficult one . with 110 growth measure , he have rightly recognise the need to boost growth , but as he have stress , that growth must be secure on sound foundation and must not take the form of a reckless , debt - fuel rush for growth . there be area of reform that I believe he should have cover , such as business rate , social care funding and special educational need . however , this autumn statement be very much a step in the right direction , and provide a platform on which he and the Government can build in the come week and month . I will briefly cover three area , the first of which be investment in skill . my right hon . friend the Chancellor recognise the importance of that investment to improve productivity and secure sustainable economic growth . in that respect , the announcement of £ 50 million to increase the number of apprenticeship in key growth area be to be welcome . however , there remain a need for a long - term strategy to enhance skill . I look forward to an update on the work of Sir Michael Barber , which be announce in last year ' s autumn statement ; a significant uplift in revenue funding for further education college and training provider ; and a review of the apprenticeship levy , which be a welcome initiative when it be introduce in 2017 , but be in need of reform so that it can perform to its full potential . secondly , we need to continue to protect the most vulnerable . covid ' s tail have be harsh and long and , along with the russian invasion of Ukraine , have create the kind of cost of living crisis that we have not see for 100 year . last year and this year , the Government have step up to the plate to support people . as such , many of last week ' s announcement be to be welcome , include increase the national living wage , increase all working - age benefit in full by 6 . 7 % , boost pension by 8 . 5 % in line with the triple lock , and significantly increase the local housing allowance . there be no doubt that there be both a skill shortage and a skill mismatch in the UK at present . it be in that context that I be supportive of the back to work plan , which the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions go through early . however , I emphasise two note of caution . first , the deficit in investment in skill and training that have be prevalent for most of this century mean that a lot of people be a long way from the workplace . we should not underestimate the challenge of equip those people with the skill they need to first hold down job , and then embark on reward career path . secondly , there be people — those with deteriorate neurological condition , for instance — who be very worried about the forthcoming review of the work capability assessment . we must do all we can to support they through what will be a period of upheaval , and ensure that we avoid situation where those who be palpably unable to work be ask to do so under the threat of sanction . my concern have be allay to a large degree by what my right hon . Friend say in his opening speech , but it be important to emphasise those point . thirdly , in the east of England and particularly along the Suffolk and Norfolk coast , there be enormous potential for long - term , rewarding job in the low - carbon energy sector . in that context , last week ' s various announcement to promote the renewable sector be very welcome . what I would emphasise be that to make the most of that great opportunity , it be vital that as the Government implement their levelling - up agenda , the east be not overlook . in his speech , my right hon . friend the Chancellor announce some new investment zone to follow on from those that be reveal in the autumn statement , none of which be in the east of England . we have a successful enterprise zone in Lowestoft and Great Yarmouth , and I hope we can look at reinvigorate it . my final point on the need for level up in the east of England be that we be the lowest - lie region in the UK , and we have a long and porous coastline . that mean that we be particularly vulnerable to flooding and coastal erosion , which be be accelerate by climate change . in recent day , many home have disappear over the cliff in Pakefield in my constituency . that have bring despair and desperation to many , and moreover create risk from dangerous cliff and the exposure of world war two sweeper marker , which have be detonate today . thank be due to the emergency service for all that they be do , work in appal condition to keep people safe , but community be at severe risk — not only Pakefield , but community right up and down the Norfolk and Suffolk coast . over the course of the next few week , we must look very closely at the coastal protection budget and its operation . I urge my right hon . friend the Chancellor to liaise very closely with my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , who be get up to speed with his new and challenging brief at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . what do this autumn statement do for the people of Ealing , Southall ? in the 13 year since the Conservative Government come into office , there have be nothing but fail plan and weak growth . this be not about the politic ; it be about real people . More than 4 , 000 people in Ealing , Southall can not find work — that be 6 . 8 % , nearly double the national rate . the Chancellor promise growth . he tell we that he be deliver growth , but where be it ? growth projection be down for this year , next year , and the year after . I hope the Chancellor be ready to fend off any member of the other place who be keen for his job , as the Prime Minister have make it clear that he do not think the talent be in this Chamber . from a botch Boris Brexit to a Trussonomics fiasco , and flail around from one crisis to the next , this Government know the writing be on the wall , because we see slow growth , stagnate pay , high taxis and fall income . household income will still be 3 . 5 % low next year in real term than they be pre - pandemic . across the OECD , we have one of the bad rate , while near peer and neighbour France , Ireland and Japan have high household income than before covid - 19 . from speak to my constituent , I know that the cost of heating , water and food — the staple they need — just keep go up . many can not cope , and no one here can have fail to notice . I be proud to work with group such as Ealing food bank , and many temple , gurdwara and mosque across my constituency and the country do the same in feeding and clothing those who need it . eale food bank be mean to be an emergency service for those in the most dire need , but week in and week out the same people be there , unable to feed their family , their child and themselves because of what this Government have do to the economy . either this government can not agree a plan , or they do not have one . whether people have manage to get on the property ladder or still want to , this Government have it in for they . mortgage rate have far to rise , and the OBR have yet again revise projection up . while people be already face double mortgage rate , the peak be yet to come in 2027 . on planning and building , the Government ' s announcement do nothing to meet the scale of new home that need to be build . there have be 16 Housing Ministers since they come to office , which show just how seriously they take the role : more Housing Ministers than house build by the Ministers . that be in stark contrast to Labour . at conference , we announce a comprehensive package that will help to build 1 . 5 million home in five year . across west London , poor management of the electricity grid by the Government have hold up and delay the development of housing and job . under - investment and poor planning be choke growth and send price up , yet on electricity the Prime Minister and the Chancellor remain ideological , with an extra cost of £ 180 each and every year for every family . that be the cost of ban onshore wind , and with clean energy drop , solar crash and no new carbon storage , this Government seem committed to look backwards , not forwards . so I ask : with youth unemployment in Ealing , Southall at nearly double the national rate , what be there for future generation ? there be no job to be have , there be nowhere to live and there be no environment leave , and we have see the bad hit to living standard on record . will his record as Chancellor be to lead on this in the big tax - raise Parliament on record , or will he be remember for simply tinker at the edge and leave Labour to deal with it ? the Chancellor ' s autumn statement strike the right balance between provide tax cut for individual , mainly through the two percentage point reduction in national insurance for 27 million people , and the big tax cut in modern british history of £ 11 billion for business . all this have be make possible by careful management of the nation ' s finance and the halving of inflation over the last year . since the Prime Minister and the Chancellor take office on 25 October last year , I have strongly support their economic policy , which have put the defeat of inflation and a reduction in Government borrowing as the top priority . this be the route to growth , rather than a dangerous policy of unfunded spending increase and unfunded tax cut that would lead only to a latter - day Barber boom . the Chancellor ' s economic policy be follow in the footstep of the Thatcher , Major and Cameron Governments , all of whom bequeath sound public finance and robust economic growth to their successor , and the Government ' s policy be work . contrary to the unfounded scare story peddle by the Opposition party , the UK have grow fast than Germany and France since the pandemic , and government borrowing be set to fall from 5 % of gdp last year to 1 . 1 % of gdp by 2028 - 29 . have listen to the litany of criticism from the shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the hon . member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , I hope that she will also be admonish her friend in the Labour Welsh Government for their appalling mismanagement of the NHS in Wales , where waiting list per capita be far high than in England . the autumn statement be impressive in its breadth of detail , but time be short so I would like to highlight a few key area in addition to the personal and business tax cut I have already mention . give its great natural beauty , my constituency of Clwyd South have many hospitality business , so I be very pleased by the Chancellor ' s extension of the retail , hospitality and leisure relief — a measure that I and many of my colleague campaign for — for another year , and his announcement that alcohol duty will be freeze until August next year . I be also glad that the Chancellor dispel the uncertainty about the pension triple lock by confirm an increase of 8 . 5 % for next year , and that he be raise all work - age benefit in full by 6 . 7 % , with both increase well above the current rate of inflation . the Government be also right to tackle long - term unemployment by strengthen support for those who want to work , while toughen sanction for those who be not look hard enough , as be outline by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions at the start of the debate . if I may , as an idea for the Budget next year , I suggest that the Chancellor consider raise the vat threshold to help small business such as the two Doves caf é in Overton in my constituency . I be also delighted by the Chancellor ' s announcement that one of the 12 new investment zone will be locate in Wrexham and Flintshire . as the MP for Clwyd South , I represent half of the Wrexham County Borough Council area . have press the case for the investment zone with the Government on multiple occasion , include on the Floor of the House , I be honour to be mention by the Chancellor in his statement alongside my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) , and to visit Airbus in Broughton with he the day after the statement . the strength of the case put forward for the investment zone lie in the highly effective campaign by a cross - party group of politician and business owner , chair by Joanna Swash , chief executive officer of Moneypenny , and include representative of Wrexham and Flintshire council — they deserve a great deal of credit in this process — as well as JCB , Airbus , Net World Sports , Theatr Clwyd , the North Wales Mersey Dee Business Council , Wrexham University and Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre Cymru . not only be this a major win for north - east Wales , but the autumn statement also extend the level of funding and tax relief available to investment zone to £ 160 million over a period of 10 year to provide great certainty to investor . previously , each zone be set to receive £ 80 million of support over a five - year period . it be estimate that this could leverage an additional £ 1 . 7 billion of investment for Wrexham , Clwyd South and Flintshire , and help create thousand of new job . in conclusion , I warmly welcome the autumn statement , which will lead to a continue fall in inflation and government borrowing , and , due to the depth and breadth of its well - target measure , ensure the grow strength of our economy across all region of the UK in the year to come . the Government have try some sleight of hand with this so - call " autumn statement for growth " just as the OBR have revise its projection for the economy downward . indeed , the OBR ' s figure for the come year tell a very different story from the Chancellor ' s : GDP growth be nil in the three month to September , while the OBR have revise growth for next year down by more than half from 1 . 8 % to 0 . 7 % , for the year after that down from 2 . 5 % to 1 . 4 % , and for 2026 marginally down as well . these figure be cause for alarm , signal a potential economic downturn . in fact , retail sale be already fall and unemployment be rise . the OBR now forecast that unemployment will go even high than previously think , reach 4 . 6 % by 2025 . if we have learn anything from the past 13 year of the Tories at the helm of the economy , it be that work people and the most vulnerable in our society be always the one who be make to pay the price for their damaging decision . a clear example be the Chancellor ' s spin over the cut to national insurance , which in reality will give back to worker less than a quarter of the £ 44 . 6 billion that will be take away from they in frozen tax threshold by 2028 . as my hon . friend the Member for Halton ( Derek Twigg ) advise , the 5 % energy price cap rise will impact as well . these national insurance cut will not do anything to help those earn less than the threshold , who be mostly low - pay , part - time worker and those in the gig economy lack basic employment right and protection , and they will disproportionately impact woman . furthermore , the total absence of additional funding for public service will hit those most in need the hard . take £ 1 . 2 billion out of the pocket of disabled people and affect 700 , 000 people with a one - third cut in their benefit and increase conditionality , while hand business £ 12 billion in tax giveaway , be totally unconscionable . but it serve as a reminder , if we ever need one , of whose interest the conservative party serve . it be not its billionaire backer who will be impact by the record waiting list in the NHS , as they all have private healthcare , nor will it be their child whose education be negatively impact by cut to school budget . how can the Government claim to be promote economic growth when the very fabric of our society be fray at the seam after more than a decade of crippling austerity ? at the local authority level , as well , we be see council across the country teeter on the brink of collapse . they have enormous hole in their finance . what do we on Teesside get from the Government in response ? we get the condescend slur of " hole " of a different variety . thank to the Conservatives ' decision to slash local government funding , along with the disgraceful mismanagement of the previous administration in my town , Middlesbrough Council have be put in the unwelcome position of have to sell its major income - generate asset to try to deliver a balanced budget . while food bank creak under the strain and thousand of child go to school hungry , we have the farce of member on the conservative Benches blame the newly elect Labour administration for clear up the mess leave by other . another matter that the Chancellor address in his statement that have a major impact on my constituency relate to freeport . the Government have announce their intention to extend the duration of the tax relief available in freeport from five to 10 year . the Chancellor explain that this decision be make in part thank to " tenacious representation " by " the unstoppable Mayor of Tees Valley " . — [ Official Report , 22 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 332 . ] I must say that that description of the Mayor be not incorrect . he have certainly be unstoppable in lock the taxpayer into dreadful deal that set up private investor with all the reward but none of the risk , which be leave to the public purse . in the late edition of Private Eye we be tell how the reckless boasting of Lord Houchen regard the announcement of British Steel set up an electric arc steel recycling plant on Teesside — on its own land — have leave the Chinese - own company with the british taxpayer over a barrel . too eager to claim credit for something that have nothing to do with he and to present the deal as do while the company be still in negotiation with the Government over subsidy , he have potentially cost the public purse astronomical amount of money . such be the arrogance display by the Mayor , his office even put out a video show he hand - sign a legal agreement with the caption " new electric arc furnace " , although on close inspection the document turn out to be an old one for a solar farm . this sum up how the conservative party operate : all smoke and mirror , when behind the fa ç ade its decision only leave the british public worse off , much like this tawdry " autumn statement for growth " . the Home Secretary really let the Tory party mask slip with his foul - mouthed outburst last week , but he and his colleague should be in no doubt that the people of Teesside and people across the country have long memory and will let their voice be hear at the ballot box as soon as they get their chance . rise — as I will be leave the Chair shortly , I just want to wish everybody a happy Lancashire Day — and how well to follow that than by call a proud Cornishman , Steve Double . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate on the autumn statement because there be so much in it to be welcome , but most importantly I welcome the pragmatic approach be take to see inflation fall and address the challenge in our public finance in a responsible manner . it be important that we acknowledge the difficult circumstance that be the backdrop to this statement : the once - in - 100 - year challenge of the covid - 19 pandemic , follow so quickly by the russian invasion of Ukraine and the shock that send through the global energy market , mean that this Government be have to face a set of economic and public finance challenge that we have not see in live memory . one of those challenge on its own would have be enough ; the difficulty create by have to deal with both in such quick succession can not be underestimate . the Government rightly spend the money they do to protect job and business and to support household through the pandemic and the energy crisis , but we be often quick to forget all that they do . we must also remember that the money have to come from somewhere . we must not forget , either , that no matter how loudly those on the Opposition Benches shout , on almost every measure we introduce to support household and the economy , the opposition say it be not enough and we should do more . we will also never forget that the Leader of the opposition want lockdown to be long and hard . we know that if the opposition have be in government for the last three year , lockdown would have be long , more money would have be spend , the recovery would have be slow , and debt would be high and we would have to be raise taxis even more in order to pay for it all . in the light of that backdrop , it be remarkable that the Chancellor have be able to announce the measure he have , and that have only be possible because of our responsible approach to manage the economy . I welcome the 2 % cut in national insurance , which will put hundred of pound back in the pocket of those in work . I welcome the increase in pension by inflation and the retention of our commitment to the triple lock ; the 8 % rise will mean the state pension will be £ 3 , 750 a year more than in 2010 , which be a testament to this Government ' s support for and commitment to pensioner . I welcome benefit be increase by 6 . 7 % , in line with inflation ; I represent a constituency where 13 , 500 household be on universal credit and it be vital that benefit keep pace with rise price . I very much welcome the increase in the local housing allowance , too ; it be particularly important in Cornwall that the Government have be able to do that , because we have among the high rent when compare with average income . I also welcome the support to business , especially the extension of the 75 % reduction in business rate for many high - street business . that be so important , particularly for hospitality business in mid - Cornwall that in recent year have be face some of the most difficult time . I also welcome the rise in the national living wage to £ 11 . 44 an hour . that will give a substantial pay rise to so many worker in St Austell and Newquay , but we have to be clear that although the Government set that figure , it be business that will have to find the money from their revenue to pay it . I therefore encourage the Treasury team to continue to look in the come month at what more can be do to support our small business . although the measure announce be welcome , many business will still face challenge time in the month and year ahead . I be delighted that the Chancellor make clear that the content of the autumn statement be only the start of tax reduction , and we look forward to more . if I may be so bold , I will suggest one . I welcome the new Financial Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) to his place , and he will be familiar with this idea . I encourage he to use his new position to influence the Treasury to look again at cut vat for tourism and hospitality . when that be cut through the pandemic , we see how positive it be in boost that important part of our economy , so I encourage he to look at that again . my final point be on the care sector , which be already struggle in so many way and be concerned about the impact of the rise in the national living wage . will the Treasury look again at what more can be do to support that sector in the come month , because otherwise absorb the rise in the living wage will put even more pressure on a system that be already creak ? I very much welcome the autumn statement . with the backdrop of the challenge we be face , it be welcome that we have be able to come forward with these measure . we have make the right decision at this time , and I look forward to more to come in the month ahead . just listen to some of the comment from right hon . and hon . member , we could be force to think we be live in a different Britain . I think about the email I receive from constituent who be struggle and cry out for the Government to help . I think about the people worried about the change to their benefit — people who through no fault of their own can not work — and yet the Government say , " if you do not work , you will lose your benefit . " even try to get through to the Department for Work and Pensions be a struggle and a challenge for a number of those people . I hope that , in introduce the proposal in this autumn statement , the Government think about how we care for the most vulnerable in society . this autumn statement mark just over a year since the disastrous mini - Budget , and we can all remember that . when so many people in the UK be struggle , the then Prime Minister think that the good thing to do be to lift bonus for banker and give tax cut to the rich . when so many be just try to get their foot back on the ground after covid , we see tax cut be award to some of the rich in our country . that be not how we should be respond . the current Prime Minister be try to say that he represent change , but this autumn statement be a water - down version of the same flawed priority that be fail my constituent and other right across the country . as a result , my constituent be pay a lot more of their hard - earn money simply to put food on the table . I visit one of our food bank in Waterloo , just across the bridge from here , which be busy every day . a few week ago , the owner of that food bank , Bishop John Francis and I visit St George ' s cathedral , which have open a food pantry . we need those service now , because people — include even those who be in work — be struggle to buy the basic thing . the terminology " in - work poverty " should shame we . these people be work , yet they can not make end meet . sadly , that be nothing new . the fact be that for the past 13 year , my constituent and many across the country have be let down badly . their local service have be cut to the bone , wait time across our hospital be out of control , and their wage be grow nine time slow than they be under the last Labour Government . they have be let down because this Government ' s priority be not the country ' s priority . this government ' s priority seem to be they and their friend , and that be sad . it be no wonder that so many people feel disillusioned with politic and think we do not care about their everyday issue . I think about those people who come to my advice surgery beg for help and ask if the Government will listen to their claim and fund local council so that basic service can be restore . when I be grow up , those service be there to help people , but they have now be decimate . action speak louder than word , and for proof of that we need only look at who the Prime Minister have bring back in . the key architect of the austerity measure be now back at the heart of Government . that show that nothing have change . my constituent have be wait far too long , and sadly this Government have show time and again that they will not change and will not listen to people ' s concern . People be come to we as their mps to talk about their priority , and it be important that we make sure those change happen . those priority include build the home require ; end zero - hour contract so that people can have decency and a fulfilling job ; ensure that woman can go back into the labour market with affordable childcare ; and build affordable home , as oppose to home that no one can afford to buy . this government say they will end no - fault eviction , yet at every opportunity they move the goalpost . People be be demonise just for their sexuality , yet the Government say , " we do not care . " I hope that the Government will listen and change , and recognise that this autumn statement do not help people in Vauxhall and across the country . the only thing that will help those people be a general election and a new government . first , I applaud the Ministers in his Majesty ' s Treasury . stick to electorally hard position go against the natural political grain , but do so have halve inflation . the autumn statement have do a great deal for every man , woman and child in Clacton and the wide nation . despite this all - consume effort to tame the tiger of inflation , which be work , we have still manage to protect the £ 78 million that be be invest in Clacton . I thank the Government for listen to my repeat plea to look after coastal community . that be level up . I welcome a number of the measure , but I do so in a cautious manner . first , I welcome the fact that we have protect and fulfil our manifesto pledge to keep the pension triple lock in place . I have fight for the past three month to keep our commitment to pensioner , and I be thrilled that the effort have win out in the end . the tax relief for the english freeport be be extend from five to 10 year , with an additional £ 150 million investment opportunity fund . that potentially be great news for the Harwich freeport , but serious connectivity issue need to be deal with in Clacton . if the people from Jaywick in Clacton do not see the benefit of this economic expansion , I will regard the whole freeport thing as a failure . economic growth , particularly when back by the state , can not come without societal good . I would also like to have a word regard the bank . I think our central bank be painfully slow to respond to the blatantly obvious inflationary bubble post - covid . our current rate of 5 . 25 % be a result of the backdrop of be too low for too long , and the subsequent climb be far too incremental , start in December 2021 . our high level of interest at a time of fall inflation could well represent the banking sector profit out of the Bank of England ' s tardiness , and that can not be right . the Bank of England need to respond in a reasonable way or risk the ire of the business community and of this House . we need to lower interest rate as soon as possible , to save some of the business in my constituency that be on the brink . the bulk of my comment , however , come directly from and relate to our wonderful sunshine coast in Clacton . I reach out to a number of business and promise to be their voice , fulfil my pledge to be Clacton ' s man in this place . here be what they have to say . Gavin Smith of Hedingham and Chambers bus — a firm do amazing work , and I want to help it do well — want I to tell the Treasury that the £ 2 billion for development of zero - emission bus technology be great news , and it want to work with that . of course , employee will welcome the 2 % NI cut , but the massive 25 % corporation tax rate hit business hard . the Cameron - Osborne year , which be just refer to , prove that low and competitive taxis yield more for the Treasury due to the stimulus that give to investment in the private sector . we must return to that fact of life that we as conservative all know . there be one clear voice of concern from the sunshine coast , and it be one that I support . the minimum wage increase to £ 11 . 44 be excellent for so many , but for more than two decade government have be use a disingenuous term . they say , " we be increase pay " , but let we be clear that they be not increase pay but tell other to increase pay . what do that mean in real term ? for Amazon , a firm that see profit explode thank to covid spur online sale and which have $ 513 billion of global revenue in 2022 , it mean little . for leisure business such as the Lifehouse in Weeley , it be devastating . Peter Murphy , its chief executive officer , tell I that it expect its fix cost to increase by £ 500 , 000 . the company be a model business — it employ locally , give to charity , have regenerate historic ground , and even its restaurant menu show where produce have be source from in the immediate area — but it face extinction unless something be do . hospitality and social care be the mainstay of our economy in Clacton , and they be not like Amazon , which measure profit in ten and hundred of million or billion and can pay more without a second thought . these business have high human resource headcount and have to live with very tight margin . we need to protect they from increase cost . in this day and age , to treat all private entity as if they have the same capacity be madness . the mandate should be like tax on profit — they should fall heavy on the broad shoulder . I be fine with the idea of special taxation on certain giant to retire the covid debt , the interest on which be a millstone around the national neck , but we can not pretend that wage be Government money . they be business ' money , and that be not inexhaustible . with fall inflation and key investment , we be well on the way to recovery . however , the message from Clacton be that that recovery be lead by business , not by Whitehall . that mean we need get the cost off their back and let they do what they do and know well . I draw hon . member ' attention to the fact that I be a vice - president of the Local Government Association . I be afraid that the autumn statement will have come as a disappointment to many live in my North Shropshire constituency and rural place across Britain . after year of mismanagement , the Conservative Government have leave hard - work people to pay for their mistake . some element of the statement be welcome , such as lift the freeze on housing allowance and increase the national living wage , but they will not change the daily reality for many of my constituent who be struggle with stealth tax hike and spiral mortgage repayment . I turn first to the Chancellor ' s announcement to increase the national living wage by almost 10 % . my liberal Democrat colleague and I welcome the increase for the low pay , but , for people in rural area , it will not offset the impact of the cost of living crisis . People in rural Britain spend an average of £ 800 more a year on fuel because of poor public transport , and those who be off grid be still pay about twice the amount for their heating oil than they be before Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . I therefore urge the Government to support off - grid resident with their energy bill by implement an off - grid energy cap so that those affect do not have to continue to choose between heating and eat . the Chancellor have increase the living wage but fail to help local council fund those increase wage . I have hear from council run by all political party that they be currently struggle to provide good service because of the crippling cost of social care , special educational need and disability support , and temporary housing . council will have to pay either directly or to their contractor the cost of those increase wage , yet the Chancellor be ask they to find that money from their exist budget . that bring I to the closely related subject of social care . there be no announcement of any new investment in adult social care , or indeed child ' s social care , in the Chancellor ' s statement . for anyone who provide or receive social care , that will be incredibly worrying . social care service be already under immense pressure , waiting list for care assessment and provision be at all - time high , and there be serious retention and recruitment problem in the sector — and they be especially acute in rural place such as Shropshire . not only do the Chancellor fail to address that in his statement , but his unfunded announcement of an increase in the national living wage will only put further pressure on those service . Shropshire Council have report that it spend 85 % of its budget on social care . since I be elect , I have spend a significant amount of time talk to care provider in North Shropshire . they report struggle desperately to meet the need for care package ; they often cross - subsidise they through their private work . but care provider for adult with learn disability , autism spectrum disorder or lifelong high level of need often do not have such private work , so with central Government not fund the increase wage cost — or local government unable to raise its own finance — there be a risk of a huge crisis in the sector . crucially , a social care service under more pressure will have dangerous knock - on implication for bed availability in hospital and — where I be , this be the most acute problem — ambulance waiting time . after hear the autumn statement , many people will feel they be about to relive last winter ' s NHS nightmare , which the Government have repeatedly promise to prevent . for example , in the last week , NHS Shrewsbury , Telford and Wrekin Integrated Care Board have urge my constituent to stay away from A & E if at all possible because it know that the department will be under extreme pressure with limited bed availability . the root cause of that be in delay in discharge patient who be well enough to leave hospital . that will only be exacerbate if care provider be unable to recoup their staffing cost from the local authority pay they to provide that care . it be a disgrace that the Government have not recognise the desperate need for investment in adult social care , and as such hospital be brace for another incredibly difficult winter . Conservative Ministers have not get a clue about how to get the economy back on track . they simply do not understand that a healthy economy need a healthy population , and that require a healthy nhs and a healthy care sector . the Tories have cut taxis for the big bank and let fossil fuel extractor off the hook from the windfall tax . liberal Democrats urge the Government to look again at those taxis to fund the sector that will allow the economy to grow again . I turn to the Chancellor ' s decision to lift the freeze on local housing allowance to support more household with pay their rent . I be sure that be good news for the 8 . 5 million people who the National Housing Federation estimate be live with unmet housing need this year . a lack of affordable and social housing be a real issue in North Shropshire , where the average house price be 8 . 6 time average earning , accord to the all - party parliamentary group for rural business and the rural powerhouse , of which I be a member . about 175 , 000 people be on rural housing list at the moment , and homelessness be increase , especially among young people . I draw the House ' s attention to two key shortfall to the announcement . first , the Chancellor do not commit to rule out reinstate a freeze in the future , so the policy could be reverse , with the result that council can not easily plan ahead their financial budget . secondly , it do not apply to temporary accommodation , so the maximum subsidy will remain capped at 90 % of rate in January 2011 . in my constituency alone , the number of household live in temporary accommodation have more than double since 2018 , place yet more strain on council budget . council of all political party have recently write an open letter to the Chancellor to explain the unprecedented demand for temporary accommodation and its associated astronomical increase in cost on their budget . they need urgent clarification that housing allowance will not be freeze again in future and that they will be subsidise to manage this difficult problem go forward . on mobile signal investment , I welcome the Government ' s announcement that 10 region will be award funding for 5 g connection for business and resident . mobile connection be an issue that I have significant personal experience with . a mobile signal be essential to a function community and pave the way for successful and grow business . it will surprise no one that all those area of the UK that do not receive a 4 g signal be class as rural . thirteen per cent of my constituency be a partial notspot , and 50 % of indoor space in North Shropshire do not receive a 4 g signal from any of the top four operator . that significantly impact business in my constituency as they struggle to operate without a signal . therefore , while 5 g technology be welcome , I hope that the Government will understand that , to level up rural Britain , a 4 g signal need to be available first . to conclude , I be worried about the stability of local government to provide essential service , the impact on the health service and the levelling - up of rural Britain . it be real pleasure to welcome a much more optimistic and extensive statement than I have think . a few week ago , we hear story that inflation be high and sticki than we think , interest rate be forecast to be high for long , and it could be a miserable statement to sit through . then , we hear story that we may not be able to increase pension by the triple lock and benefit by inflation . then , we hear the rumour that our priority be inheritance tax , and I think I would be here oppose the autumn statement , but fortunately I can wholeheartedly welcome it . my constituent will be particularly pleased by the support to pay their bill : the national living wage be up by nearly 10 % , the state pension by 8 . 5 % and benefit by the full rate of the consumer price index from September . more unexpected be the increase in local housing allowance back to the 30th percentile , which be much need . the system have be creak , and we need to maintain it at that level . the Government should be commend for all those measure . on a local note , I welcome the investment zone announce for Derby , derbyshire and Nottinghamshire . we look forward to see the full detail , but it look to be positive for local growth . business in my high street and the hospitality sector will welcome the business rate relief that be announce . I want to touch on three topic : the corporation tax change , the pension change and the various measure to make work pay . to give some certainty , we should have a long - term , predictable plan for what our tax system should look like , so I welcome the 2 % reduction in national insurance down to a nice , round , easy - to - calculate 10p in the pound . that fit quite well with the 20p income tax rate , so we have a nice , neat 30p in the pound and people understand what they be pay . they know that if they earn more than £ 50 , 000 , that go up to 40p , and they have to add the 2p national insurance , or a bit less . that be a clear and predictable way of tax people ' s earning . now , we need to work out where the starting point in the band should be , because that have go a bit out of control . we be try to get to the stage where someone could earn the minimum wage and not pay any income tax , but that be now thousand of pound away . I urge the Government , have make this welcome step , to set out a plan for set a much high starting point for pay income tax and national insurance . it should be head back towards a point where someone work full time on the minimum wage do not pay much tax . equally , on corporation tax , the plan we have 13 year ago for a stable business tax system appear to have drift away . I support the full expensing , but that be a pretty radical and permanent change to our corporation tax system . there be a huge compliance need for business to track all their fix asset and split they between the general pool , the long - life asset pool , the short - life asset pool , the vehicle and the structure rule , work out what be a non - allowable structure and what be not . all those thing be hugely complex . we be now allow full expensing for the vast majority of spend . we should think about whether we need all those rule , or whether we could sweep they away and just have some anti - avoidance restriction . what should we do with the legacy situation ? it will be a bit bizarre to have full tax relief for the capital I have spend this year , but still have to work out and claim relief for what I spend 15 year ago , which be still work its way through the pool . that look to be a long and unwieldy system . could we find a way of run off those legacy balance a bit more quickly , so we can lose that complexity ? on the pension change , I support the pot for life approach that the Government be consult on . the counter argument be that it take away the link between employer and their employee ' pension , but the simple fact that we have to auto - enrol 10 million people into a workplace pension suggest that those employer be not bother about the pension they give their staff , because they be not give they one at all . try to boost the individual ' s engagement with their pension saving be a prize worth have . if someone move job to an employer with a good pension scheme , they can choose to stay there — they do not have to stay in their pot for life . I think that we will need a clearing house to avoid cost on employer , because otherwise small employer with 12 employee will be leave try to work out how to pay 12 different pension scheme a month . that sound a bit too complex . I have be bang on for year that auto - enrolment have get stick be cheap and easy for employer , but do not produce the good return pension for saver , so I welcome the reference in the Green Book to a new duty on employer to think about the quality of their pension scheme for their scheme member . that will help move auto - enrolment in the right direction to the good staff pension . I largely welcome the various welfare change . clearly , it be right that a welfare system be conditional . People who can work and look after themselves and their family should do so , and to those who can not we should give as much support as we possibly can . that be an undisputable foundation of the welfare system . however , it have go a little out of kilter . far too many people be successful at be out of work for life . we need to find a way of change that . however , I would warn the Secretary of State to be cautious about the message that people get , because they tend to hear the bad news , not the good news . all the good news about extra support and the chance to work guarantee be drown out by noise about strict assessment . People still do not trust the system as they should . we should be careful not to lose the good message in the necessary bad one . the evidence show that if people feel support , trust the work coach they be work with and feel they have a predictable journey that support they , they will engage with it . if they be worried that if they make a step and it do not work , and they be reassess and tell the work coach , that will be use against they next time , they will not engage . we must tread carefully . I accept the need to ensure that the work capability assessment be get people in the right place . only people who be never fit for work should be declare not ever fit for work . that have to be right , but I urge some caution in that language . I note the rather strange thing at the end , quite rightly reinstate the rule that if someone do not comply with the term of the benefit , they lose the benefit . that rule be there pre - universal credit , and it be right , so I be not sure how it will cost £ 10 million a year to reintroduce it . perhaps we have not score that yet , and we will see that detail in future . let I begin by congratulate the Prime Minister on raise relaunche to an art form that should be admire . it begin in his conference speech , when he announce that he be the new agent of change . that last about a week of Tory party infighting . then , we have the King ' s Speech three week ago . there be no change in that ; it be all very much the same from a Government who have run out of steam and idea . third time lucky : with the autumn statement he have a chance to turn the corner to improve our economy , invest in public service and support work people . but what do we get ? a party political autumn statement , purely focus on attempt to move the dial of the opinion poll for the next general election . the headline grabber be the national insurance cut , but it do not take an economist to work out that people will be pay more taxis . go into the autumn statement , the increase in NI be about 10p . we have now be give back 2p , so to use the analogy of the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) about cake , it be like take the cake away and give back two small slice . then , because of the freezing of personal allowance later this year , not only will those two slice be take again , but the Government will have everything else in the cake tin . add to that , inflation be still high : in the last two year it have rise by 16 % , with food inflation up 28 % . the Prime Minister claim to have get inflation down , but it have have nothing to do with he — it be down to the Bank of England . that will not con people , because price in the shop be still rise . how do we get here ? as my hon . friend the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) say , the Government say it be , " nothing to do with they , mate " . that have be the line all along . this have be the accumulation of 13 year of not only austerity but a way of dismantle the state . the criminal justice system be in absolute crisis ; health be break ; local government be bleed on its foot ; education be in a dire situation . in local public health , drug and alcohol service and other have be slash because of the effect of government spending . we have have flatline growth and , as my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) say , people pay more for less . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions try to present a cuddly image , say that the Government ' s welfare change be all about get people into work . I have no problem with genuinely support people into work , but the hon . member for Boston and Skegness let the cat out of the bag when he say that they be about change people ' s behaviour — as though people somehow choose to be on welfare . we just hear the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) say that he would get a bit nervous if the language around that get too harsh , but that be exactly what the Conservatives be go into the election with . they will say , " we ' ve cut taxis and we ' re go to be hard on the feckless poor , " which be how they see people on welfare . we be in this situation because of the pressure on people ' s daily life . the Secretary of State ' s only suggestion on mental health be for more talking session . well , I be sorry but if we do not replace the money for local government , social service and other infrastructure at a local level , mental health crisis will increase . we have the ludicrous idea that the answer for people who be on welfare because of their mental health be to get they work from home . I support people with mental health issue go into work , but it must be the right type of work . the idea that sit at home will help people ' s mental health be , frankly , ridiculous . I be shock that there be no continuation of funding for the suicide prevention programme . Suicide be the big killer of man , but the programme will run out in March because there be no extra funding in the autumn statement . it would cost £ 1 . 40 per person to address that crisis , the shameful stigma of suicide and the suicide rate in this country , which be still far too high . on local government , the Government ' s botched announcement last week on level up come against the background of a sector that have have a 30 % cut in its real - term funding . Durham County Council have lose £ 262 million a year and the Government produce their shuffle trick and say , " why aren ' t you still produce service ? " , imply that it be somehow inefficient . the cost be then move on to local council tax payer . this be part of the Conservative Government ' s deliberate strategy over the past 13 year of dismantle those part of the state that we have always recognise as be vital to the coherence of our local community . I want to raise one issue relate to sub - postmaster . People know that I have be campaign for they for well over 13 year . I just hope that money be set aside in the Treasury for full compensation . on a personal note , the person who get I into this , my constituent Tom Brown , unfortunately pass away last night . Tom be prosecute by the Post Office . he will not get justice . he go to his grave without the justice that he deserve — one of far too many . there be no change in the autumn statement . it be time for change , as other colleague have say . the only way we will rebuild Britain , rebuild our community and rebuild the state — not a state that tell we what to do , but a state that be there for our constituent and our community — be if we have a general election and elect a Labour Government . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , not least because the Chancellor confirm , as many of we predict , that the Government would not just meet the target of halve inflation by the end of the year , but do significantly well . forecasting be , of course , never an exact science . as the OBR report say : " the economy have prove to be more resilient to the shock of the pandemic and energy crisis than anticipate . " that be probably the close we will get to , " sorry , we get it wrong , " from the OBR . it get the baseline so badly wrong , with GDP stand 3 % high , it have have to revise down rate of subsequent growth to take account of the high starting point . even then , it still admit that GDP will be 0 . 5 % high than the March forecast . that have enable the autumn statement to reflect the success of the Government ' s policy , deliver the large tax cut since the ' 80 . this be an autumn statement for job and growth , put more money in people ' s pocket , help people to keep more of the money they earn and ensure that work always pay . last Friday , I hold a job and advice fair for the over - 50 in my constituency , help score of people who be look for new employment , skill or training opportunity . local employer have hundred of vacancy right now , so boost skill and address employment gap be vital . for employer , I particularly welcome the large tax cut in modern history . full expensing be make permanent be absolutely what industry in Stoke - on - Trent need , and it will significantly encourage further investment in prosperity and job growth . there be more job available in Stoke - on - Trent than people unemployed , so the autumn statement ' s focus on get people into meaningful work be very welcome . as we know , the routine of a meaningful work life be beneficial to mental health , but that can be tragically hard to see for some suffering from severe mental health challenge and other health challenge . I be sure we have all have heartbreaking conversation with constituent in that position , and of course there should always be the support in place for those who need it most , but all the evidence tell we that it be right that we support they into the security of work and help they to improve their condition , because work can make a huge difference in help people get over both health issue and mental health issue . the expansion of the individual placement and support scheme , provide intensive and tailor expert support for those with severe challenge , be welcome , as be the expansion of talk therapy for those with moderate and mild condition . it be right to reform the fit note process , so that treatment be prioritise over time off . in total , £ 1 . 3 billion over five year will help 700 , 000 people with health condition to find job : good for the economy , good for employer and , most importantly , good for they and their family . it be not be cruel to be kind ; it be be kind to be kind . it be only if that kindness and support be reject that sanction , reluctantly , will have to be use as a last resort . for those who be capable of work but refuse to do so — those who do not engage — I think most of our constituent would want we to ensure that action be take to support they into work . indeed , the Chancellor have ensure that the carrot , as it be , for be in work have increase across the board . the cut in national insurance payment , the increase in the national living wage and the increase in the minimum apprenticeship wage be all welcome , make work the most attractive option , alongside uprating benefit and the state pension . I be very happy to hear the Chancellor say that that be as much a moral imperative as an economic one . this be about fairness for everyone . no one should be write off and leave on the scrapheap , as we see with so many under the last Labour Government . equally , no area should be leave behind and the levelling - up agenda that we have enjoy since Brexit must continue to deliver meaningful change . the UK have grow fast than other country throughout Europe , but we must ensure that every single part of the UK , include community in Stoke - on - Trent , benefit from that increase prosperity . that include the transform city fund package , generously fund by the Government but delay by covid — and , I have to say , by Network Rail and Stoke - on - Trent City Council . shockingly , the city council ' s current Labour leadership have even delay our levelling - up project , revisit some of they and revise down some of the ambition that will have a massive impact on what we be hope to deliver . the ambitious leadership we need for our city be very much lacking when it come to the Labour administration at the council . that must not happen to our restore your railway project under the Network North proposal . we , as conservative mp who be lead the bid , be absolutely focused on ensure we deliver on reopen Meir station and the Stoke to Leek line . it be vital that we invest in improve our local transport — our vital local rail , road and bus link . where the autumn statement deliver , reward work and put more money in people ' s pocket , so the cancellation of phase 2 of HS2 must deliver transport improvement to help community in Stoke - on - Trent and across north Staffordshire to well access work and skill opportunity . that investment will put the money that be go to be waste on phase 2 into thing that will make a real difference , ensure that we connect community and deliver access to employment opportunity . that will deliver the step change that we need in local rail , road and bus connection . that be vital for community like Meir in my constituency and right across Stoke - on - Trent and north Staffordshire . together , these measure will unleash employment growth and help we to level ourselves back up to where we belong , support our fantastic , world - lead industry — our manufacturing industry , on which our city be build — ensure that we can deliver growth in job and employment , ensure that work be reward through improvement in pay and condition , and ensure that people have access to well employment opportunity in the future . rise — order . as I still have to get 16 speaker in , I shall have to reduce the speak time limit to six minute . there be much in the autumn statement on which I could comment , but I want to focus on one area . have hear what be say by my neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , I be tempt to say the same , for I shall be touch on very similar theme . like many people , I hear regularly from disabled constituent who be desperately worried about their finance and their benefit . they feel that DWP assessment be design to catch they out rather than help they , when it be appropriate , into good employment . for they , the autumn statement have be a source of great anxiety , with fear that the Government be double down on a culture that many have experience as inflexible , ineffective , and even downright callous . Debra , a constituent who contact I this weekend , have be on PIP and ESA for a long time , owe to a debilitate lifelong illness , and be now desperately worried that she will find herself in difficult circumstance as a result of the change . there be an urgent need for the Government to clarify the detail and put more flesh on the bone so that constituent like Debra be not worried sick about what will happen to they in the future . of course people who be able to work should be provide with the right support to help they to do so , because , as my right hon . Friend say , a job can be a source of structure and self - esteem , and people with mental health problem in particular be especially sensitive to the negative effect of unemployment . crucially , however , as we have also hear , these job need to be good and appropriate . insecure , demand and low - pay work can be as bad for a person ' s mental health as unemployment . last week , during a television interview , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say that disabled people must " do their duty " and work from home , but figure from the Office for National Statistics show that only 16 % of adult currently work exclusively from home in any give week , and that people be more likely to be able to work from home if they be in the high income band and educate to degree level or above — group to which people who suffer severely from mental illness , for example , be statistically less likely to belong . I fear that disabled people compete for a small pool of fully remote job will find themselves push even far into poor - quality and insecure work . for other , particularly those with mental health problem , there be a risk that be push into homeworking will only serve to compound their social isolation and their difficulty in pay bill . we must be clear about the fact that while we need to provide well access to remote working , it can not be a substitute for access to good - quality , hand - on support . I want to say something about sanction , because there be a well - establish link between lose benefit , face serious hardship and experience a deterioration in mental health , sometimes cause hospital admission . previous research have establish that people who be sanction also take long to move into pay work , and that when they do , their earning be low . we need a holistic approach that cover the impact of the colossal NHS waiting list — in particular those for mental health treatment , which be prevent many people from be able to work . we can not ignore that fact when consider this issue . we need to consider the impact of young people ' s experience of education and live in poverty , and how they accumulate to exclude they from access to good job . along with mental health charity , I welcome the extension of the NHS individual placement and support scheme to provide intensive employment support for people with severe mental health problem , but I hope that the Government will consider the merit of that approach for more common mental health condition , as well as take a broad view of the factor that impede employment among people with poor mental health . sadly , as we have hear , we do not see any new proposal for evidence - base preventive programme , and I be particularly disappointed that we do not see the continuation of the vital funding to support local suicide prevention plan that be set to run out this year . as we have also hear , the cost of retain that vital service be very small . the need for a public health approach to mental health have never be great , and we need the Government to assess and show an understanding of the trauma that people have experience , rather than create new one . finally , I want to say a little about childcare . have speak to staff at a nursery in my constituency , I know there be a real fear that the Government ' s plan be not meet the cost that be need to provide high - quality childcare , and something must be do about that . the Tories be desperately look for a reset moment , but it be not the autumn statement . as someone who spend many year in business myself , I will begin there . we start our family business back in 1991 with an enterprise allowance of £ 40 a week from the Government . it be not possible to make business risk - free , but it be possible to create the condition that support entrepreneur . sme be the real wealth creator of our economy , and in this , the week lead up to small business Saturday , I be proud to support those in my constituency . microbusinesse , with up to nine employee , constitute 89 % of the business in my constituency . these be the people who get up early in the morning , put in the hard yard , and take risk with their money . they be the backbone of local economy . I welcome the measure in the autumn statement that back british business , such as the extension of rate relief for the hospitality , leisure and retail sector . freeze alcohol duty will help the local micropub , such as the Turtles Head , that be the heart and soul of so many community . measure on class 2 and class 4 national insurance contribution to help the self - employ be also welcome . however , we need to continue to look at way in which to go far . the extension of full expensing will be welcome by the large company , but I fear that it will make little difference to too many small business . that be why I feel that we need a cut in corporation tax from its current high rate of 26 % to its former level of 19 % . that , I think , would be another tool to lead we towards the growth that we all want to see . the increase in the national living wage will be greatly welcome by many employee , but some business and community organisation in my constituency tell I of the challenge that it will pose to they . for some , it will risk push up price to service user . I therefore urge the Government to exercise a bit of caution , and to continue to look at that balance . as for personal taxation , I welcome the 2 % cut in the main rate of employee national insurance from 6 January next year , which will bring relief to some 27 million worker , but I think we should recognise that we must not stop there . with wage rise , there be a real risk that people will pay more income tax . let we not forget about the need to go on look at the tax - free allowance threshold — and I , for one , will be continue to push for increase . I feel that that make sense , because we need to address the fiscal drag . turn to welfare reform , the commitment to the triple lock will mean a fantastic 8 . 5 % increase from the start of April 2024 , which be equivalent to £ 900 a year . I know that that will help the pensioner in my constituency , and that be good news . the plan to work be also welcome . it be just not fair for the majority of british people to work while some people think they can get away without work . the key to employment be the Government work with training provider , education provider and employer , with everyone work closely together to understand where the skill gap be today and where they be likely to be in the future . our young people , our student and those return to work later in life need a pathway of apprenticeship and education that will lead they smoothly and successfully into a job . in the west midland , we be fortunate to have our brilliant Mayor , Andy Street , who absolutely understand that . the announcement of three new investment zone , include one in the west midland , be especially welcome , provide the opportunity to drive £ 5 . 5 billion of growth across our region and create 30 , 000 new job . the autumn statement also seal the deal on the single settlement to provide the deep devolution deal that we want and to end what have be describe as a begging - bowl culture for so many devolved area . that settlement have be pioneer by our west midland Mayor , Andy Street . the decision to invest a furth £ 50 million in apprenticeship pilot scheme will be invaluable too . I note that the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , be nod on the Front Bench , and I remind he that he be welcome to come to Aldridge - Brownhills to visit our apprenticeship provider . it be important that we do not neglect the traditional industry , which still provide an economic powerhouse in place such as the Black Country . we can not afford to leave those community and business behind . our ambition of level up will be fully realise only when we embrace all sector of industry , whether new or traditional . the focus on supply - side reform be also much need to deliver growth , particularly in area such as planning , but I caution Ministers that , while that be welcome , we must ensure that our local authority have the planning expertise and capacity to deal with the application . I also ask Ministers to consider extend any such new policy practice to other organisation — for example , the Environment Agency . we have a situation in my constituency where it be take up to 71 week just to validate permit and licence , so I be rather hope that someone on the Front Bench or in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs will have take note of that and will come back to I on it . in a time of continue global uncertainty , especially give the war in Ukraine , I welcome our commitment to spend 2 % of our gdp on defence . I also welcome the extra commitment of £ 10 million to support the Veterans ’ place , Pathways and People programme . we have move the dial forward , and I be sure we will continue to move it far forward . it be difficult to know whether what we have last week be an autumn statement or a pre - election mini - Budget . it be big on promise and very optimistic , but the growth figure be disappointing and inflation be fall slowly — very slowly . the Chancellor say he be put money in people ' s pocket , despite the Bank of England want we to spend less . he have agree to freeze the small business rate multiplier for another year , but the increase in the minimum wage , though welcome for employee , will largely offset any benefit that business gain from the rate freeze . Claire , the enterprise woman who run Aspire , a hair and beauty treatment business in my Selly Oak constituency , have tell I that this will mean gain on business rate but lose on wage increase . Claire — who , through her own effort and determination , have open not one but two shop and hold her business together during the pandemic by sheer hard work and creative advertising on social medium — do not begrudge her 15 staff a wage increase . she acknowledge that they need it , but despite work all the hour she can , she have to accept less for she and her family because she can not increase price ; otherwise , she will shrink her customer base , because they be all struggle with the cost of living crisis . the Chancellor want to be see as promote growth and cut taxis , yet the tax burden be at its high since the second world war , living standard be set to fall 3 . 5 % below pre - pandemic level — the bad reduction since the 1950 — and growth be at 0 . 6 % compare with 2 . 1 % in the United States , 2 . 5 % in Spain , 2 . 3 % in Portugal , 2 % in Ireland and 1 % in France . it be also hard to reconcile the image of tax - cut Tories with the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s forecast that 4 million people be go to end up pay more tax due to fiscal drag . accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , no Parliament have preside over large tax increase since the 1950 . who would have expect nurse and police inspector to be pay the top rate of tax ? they be hardly wealthy . the Chancellor claim that he have reduce the debt . he have ; it be now a mere £ 2 . 7 trillion and project to be about 98 . 6 % of GDP and not the 100 % that he fear . but even this wonderful feat have only be achieve by sleight of hand , as he have exclude Bank of England debt from his figure . the much - vaunted national insurance reduction of £ 450 pale into insignificance when set against monthly rise in mortgage payment of £ 300 or more . high interest rate , and therefore high mortgage repayment , be expect to hit around 4 million family . against this harsh reality , it turn out that the Chancellor be barely give work people enough back to be able to afford a weekly portion of fish and chip . there be also too many household with nothing put away for a rainy day . our saving ratio be low than competitor such as Germany and France , and mortgage payment increase be estimate to take the number of household with no saving to around 7 million . that be one in four UK household . and where be the update on the energy social tariff , promise in last year ' s autumn statement ? it turn out that not even the consultation have take place , so this winter people rely on medical device will have to make a choice . many of those with disability and with condition that react badly to the cold will suffer as they struggle with high bill . the Chancellor ' s big offer for business be full expensing , in what he call the large tax cut for business in modern history . for every £ 1 million a business invest , it will get £ 250 , 000 off its tax bill in the same year . alas , it be hard to find any estimate of just how many business will benefit . can the Minister say just how many company he expect to replace £ 1 million - worth of plant and machinery in a single year ? even those that do benefit will still suffer due to corporation tax . for many business , the rise in the minimum wage will be accompany by a 6 . 7 % increase in business rate , add to the pressure on they at a time when supply , raw material and other cost be increase but their price be not , all of which put pressure on job . I have yet to come across a company in my constituency that appear to qualify for any energy support from this Government . it do not matter if it be the excellent Howard Yarnold , a family firm that specialise in the design , manufacture and fitting of commercial and domestic window , Loaf , the popular organic bakery , or Aspire , which I have mention — nobody get any help . if this be a plan for job and enterprise , it have fail . before begin my critique , I would like to welcome some of the Chancellor ' s announcement . first , I welcome the decision to maintain the benefit calculation base on September ' s inflation figure . consider that energy and food price be still rise , it would have be callous to change policy , as be brief beforehand . I also welcome the increase in the minimum wage for those on the low wage and the unfreezing of the local housing allowance , albeit I read over the weekend that the unfreezing be only a temporary measure . on move those on disability benefit back to work via home employment opportunity , I agree that , if these opportunity exist , we need to help people by offer tailor support . in my view , these reform would have fit well within a wide Government strategy to promote homeworking . I also welcome the extension to business investment relief . the UK face chronic , long - term productivity challenge , and a key part of address they be encourage business to invest for the future . regrettably , this be not complement by extra support for public investment . there be no increase in the Government ' s capital budget , which have be freeze at a pathetic 1 % of gdp . surely this have to be increase to address our productivity challenge , with the investment target at those part of the UK that have historically underperformed . the Resolution Foundation estimate that the UK ' s approach to public investment represent " an institutional failure of the british state " . it say that , have the UK follow the OECD average over the last two decade , an extra £ 500 billion would have be pump into the UK economy , result in long - term economic benefit . in the autumn statement , the Government claim credit for halve inflation since its peak , thereby meet one of their self - proclaim key priority for this year . inflation at over 4 % mean that price be still rise , of course — they be just rise at a slow rate . this mean that , next year , energy cost be forecast to be around twice as high as they be before the price spike . I be disappointed that there be nothing in the autumn statement to help the most vulnerable with their bill . with high energy price , the Treasury be rake in extra revenue from vat . surely some of that revenue could have be use to provide a scheme to help those in dire need . furthermore , the OBR report indicate that inflation will remain high for long than predict in its March forecast . as the OBR state , the assumption be that interest rate will remain high than forecast , at a time when the central bank estimate that over half the impact of the rate rise over the past two year have yet to be feel . the OBR report indicate that economic growth will be slow than even its March forecast , with GDP growth estimate to be only 0 . 6 % this year and 0 . 7 % next year . it state that cumulative real growth from 2023 to 2027 will be 2 . 4 % low than forecast in March . the OBR ' s revised figure on real household disposable income indicate that living standard will fall at the fast rate since record begin in the 1950 . living standard will not recover to the pre - pandemic level until 2027 - 28 . the Resolution Foundation estimate that the average worker will be £ 1 , 900 bad off in real term at the end of this Parliament compare with the start . the real income of the average worker lag way behind the OECD average . whereas the OECD average for real wage growth between the financial meltdown in 2008 and 2023 be a measly 8 . 8 % , the UK be firmly in the relegation zone at only 2 . 7 % . such have be the weakness of wage growth that the Resolution Foundation estimate that the average worker be £ 11 , 000 per annum worse off after 15 year of wage stagnation , follow the financial crash of 2008 , compare with pre - 2008 trend . the proverbial rabbit in the hat be the high - than - expect two percentage point cut to national insurance . this come at a cost of £ 46 . 8 billion per annum over the forecasting period , accord to the Treasury ' s figure . however , the Chancellor do not comment on the impact of freeze income tax allowance and threshold , which have result in a tax bonanza for the Treasury as a result of so - call fiscal drag . if my understanding of the OBR report be correct , fiscal drag will result in more than £ 201 billion of extra revenue for the Treasury over the next six financial year . that be the economic equivalent of nab the electorate ' s wallet and expect they to be grateful that a fiver have be place in their pocket . once again , the OBR report highlight the harm that Brexit have cause to the economy . it find that long - term trade intensity will be reduce by 15 % as a result of the UK Government ' s decision to operate outside the european economic framework . meanwhile , it also find that the flagship post - Brexit trade agreement , the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , will add only 0 . 04 % to GDP in the long run . despite this major elephant in the room , we face an election in which no UK political party be willing to entertain the one obvious economic move that could be take to improve matter for the country , namely reintegrate economically as much as possible with the rest of our continent . the political debate between the party in this place have completely converge on the economy . as we face an election , the obvious question be where will future growth come from ? public investment be at historically low level , export be struggle as a result of a kamikaze Brexit , and consumer spending be likely to remain suppress as living standard decline . in this environment , it be a bit far - fetched to expect business investment to step up and fill the void . I wish the official opposition well when they inherit the mess in front of we . as ever , it be a privilege to speak on behalf of the people in my community of Pontypridd and Taff Ely in today ' s autumn statement debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , the shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , on a storm speech at the Dispatch Box this afternoon and thank she for share the inspirational story about the challenge face by David ' s son in try to access employment . People with neurodiversity have an abundance of skill to contribute to our economy and to the workplace , but they need a proper pathway and a proper plan for suitable work for everyone . David and I have something in common : not only be we exasperate by this government , but we be both parent to child with autism . although my son be not go to be enter the workplace any time soon , I hope that he do so under a Labour Government here in Westminster , so that he , like everyone , have the opportunity and aspiration to achieve a decent world of work . to be frank , the feeling in Pontypridd be crystal clear : the Government ' s plan simply be not work . the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have promise to get the economy grow , but instead it be flatline . work people and household have be hit with rise price for their food and utility , and the Government should be ashamed that so many people across the country can no long afford the basic . leadership start at the top , but the Prime Minister seem to be more concerned about secure his future employment and appease the like of billionaire such as Elon Musk than support ordinary work people across Britain . only the Labour party be serious about grow the economy . it be clear to see that my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) be utterly determined to make work people in all part of the country well off by grow the economy , boost wage and bring down bill . let ' s face it : this government can not even get the basic right . labour ' s well - off plan will cut household bill by up to £ 3 , 000 a year over the next decade . I be proud that it be this party , on these Benches , that have a clear path forward . it be the absolute least that people across the UK deserve after far too many year of false promise and distraction from this Government . over the next decade , Labour ' s well - off plan will save family £ 500 a year by insulate home to make they more energy efficient . People will also save £ 900 a year as we build cheap , clean power across the country through the creation of great British Energy , a new , publicly own clean generation company . for homeowner , £ 1 , 200 a year on mortgage bill will be save by our building 1 . 5 million home over a Parliament to keep housing affordable . the Chancellor ' s top line , well - rehearse as they be , simply can not conceal the truth , because it be crystal clear that this Government have preside over 13 year of economic failure . when I speak to people across my area , the message be crystal clear : enough be enough . colleague on the Benches opposite must know the reality ; rat and sink ship come to mind . economic growth have be revise down for next year , the year after and the year after that . none of the Chancellor ' s announcement will come as any form of compensation to undo the damage do by a flailing economy . we all see it with our own eye and feel it in our own pocket . the conservative party oversee the near collapse of the entire british economy last year , which be a disaster for business and individual . only Labour can be trust on the economy and we have a plan from day one . that include support our high street , which have be utterly neglect at the hand of this Government . I have repeatedly warn in this place of my frustration over the closure of bank on the high street . last week , yet another high street bank announce that it be shut its door and abandon customer in Pontypridd . this time it be NatWest , but over the last few year HSBC , Lloyds and Barclays have all shut up shop too . the Chancellor claim that his plan will put more money in people ' s pocket . how ironic will it be if the bank continue to disappear and access to cash become a thing of the past ? in my maiden speech , I say how proud we be in Pontypridd to have the Royal Mint in our constituency . it be not lose on I that my constituency make all of the coin in the country yet we see far too little investment or money in people ' s pocket . so I urge the Government to think carefully about the desperate position in which this be put people who require access to face - to - face banking service and access to cash . what plan do this Government have to compel bank to do the right thing and stay on our high street to support business and vulnerable people who rely on their service ? we have support the bank and they should support we . my fear be that there be no plan . let we be clear : people across the country deserve so much well . we have an unelected Prime Minister and unelecte Foreign Secretary , and manifesto commitment break and abandon one after another . be it any wonder that people in the country be cry out for change . it be clear among the people up and down this country that they want a general election — they need a general election . they can not afford any more year of this Tory Government . it be time for serious change , because this Government have play hard and fast with people ' s finance for far too long and we be all pay the price . enough be enough . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , who make a powerful speech about her constituency . I share her frustration about bank closure on high street . like many member across the Chamber , I have experience the disaster of bank closure and the way that affect constituent ' ability to access their bank . it should not be like that — our high street need investment and should be invest in . the autumn statement should improve our economy and , most importantly , tackle the cost of living crisis , but it simply do not do that . the Government seem unaware that growth have be downgrade for the next three year . this will be the big tax - raise Parliament on record and we have see the big hit to living standard on record . local authority continue to be on their knee in public service provision . although I welcome the announcement to honour the triple lock in the state pension and to raise benefit in line with September inflation figure , I have significant concern about many area of the statement . I be concern about aspect of Government policy around get people back into work . Dr Roger Barker , director of policy at the Institute of Directors , state : " we would like to have see more substantive measure to address the problem of skill shortage , which continue to be a problem for our member . " it seem as if the Government be ignore skill shortage that prevent people from move from one job to another , or into certain job altogether . many people be ask what will happen to those people who be penalise and whether people with disability will be disproportionately affect , as that be not clear . because of time constraint , I will focus on NHS waiting list . surely it make sense to invest in get people well and back to work , so they can be free from pain , able to function and do their desire job . there be a shocking 7 . 8 million people on NHS waiting list and 2 . 6 million people be out of work because of long - term sickness , so surely it make sense to focus on invest in the NHS — that can not be say enough . if the Government be serious about get people into work , I ask they , as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on sickle cell and thalassemia , to focus on sickle cell . it be the UK ' s most common and fast grow genetic disorder , yet one of the least research . I encourage the Government to invest in research into sickle cell , which historically have have less investment compare with many other condition . I ask the Government to call for dedicated sickle cell research by the National Institute for Health and Care Research and other UK research institutes . constituent who be in work often email I to say that once they have pay their rent and their energy bill , they do not have enough to meet their basic need . before come to this place , I set up the Whitefoot and Downham Community Food Plus Project , which tackle food poverty . although it be a success , foodbank should not be a norm in our society . however , I feel they have become an acceptable norm to the Government , although not to member on the Opposition Benches . we demand that people have the right to food . People need to be able to choose and buy food , but they also need to pay for fuel , rent and mortgage . these be the priority of many of my resident . Labour have a plan to cut household bill by up to £ 3 , 000 a year over the next decade . labour be the party to take people out of poverty and to ensure everyone be well off . it be time for a general election . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Members for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) and for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) . they both make powerful speech about the importance of get this country back on the right track . last week , in what I hope will be the final autumn statement of this out - of - date Conservative Government , the Chancellor lift the lid on 13 year of conservative economic failure . my constituent in Newport West and people across the country be tell to expect an autumn statement for growth , but instead , as my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd say , growth have be revise down next year , the year after and the year after that . indeed , the UK economy would now be £ 150 billion big if it have continue to grow at the same rate as when Labour be in power up until 2010 . rather than deliver a plan for growth and a plan to properly get our country back on track , we be leave with the full scale of the damage that this Government have do to our economy over 13 year . nothing that be announce in the autumn statement will remotely compensate for the pain and suffer my constituent have have to endure . a constituent write to I last week : " I be a student midwife and a single mum . I live in my parent ' house as I can not afford to rent a house in the current market . we actually spend some night in my converted van . as you can imagine , live with your parent age 42 with a child be difficult . " she go on to say : " I have friend on benefit who would love to train as nurse or midwife , but they be afraid of be financially disabled , so stuck in a vicious cycle of low - pay job claim benefit . it be like the Tory Government want people to be unskille and poor instead of thriving and skilled . I would love to be part of that change . " that be what she say to I . this be exactly what we need : a Government who invest in and upskill our people ; a Government who do not walk by on the other side ; and a Government who care . after 13 year of the Conservatives , the economy simply be not work . debt as a proportion of GDP will be 28 % high next year than it be when the Tories come to power . bad than that , debt be forecast to surpass £ 3 trillion for the first time ever . I look forward to see that achievement writ large on the side of the Tory campaign bus when the election come . the people of Newport West know that this 13 - and - a - half - year - old Government be preside over the big tax - raise Parliament on record . measure announce by the Chancellor last week be equivalent to hand back £ 1 for every £ 8 of the rise in tax since 2019 - 20 . with the freeze in the personal tax allowance threshold , a couple on an average wage will still be £ 350 bad off per year , even after the autumn statement . the freezing of tax threshold , or " fiscal drag " , be set to raise £ 44 . 6 billion by 2028 - 29 , with nearly 4 million more people pay income tax and 3 million more pay the high rate . we know that the Conservatives be the party of high taxis , low investment and no growth , and we will not let they forget it . despite all the promise make by Lord Cameron , and every Prime Minister who have come after he , work people up and down this country be still bad off . the number of emergency food parcel distribute by Trussell Trust food bank have shamefully increase in Newport West . I pay tribute to all the volunteer who give their time to ensure that those in need do have some food on their table . in 2018 , the total number of parcel distribute between April and September be 1 , 971 . in the same period this year , it be 3 , 041 . More and more people in Newport West be desperate for help and more and more people need a Government in Westminster who will actually get thing do for they . Madam Deputy Speaker , I have say it before and I will say it again , this Prime Minister and his friend have let down the people of Newport West , of Wales and of our United Kingdom . the only way — the good way — to change course , to deliver for our people and to move forward be with a Labour Government , and the soon the well . in his autumn statement last week , the Chancellor announce plan to compel people live with long - term physical and mental health condition and disability to find work , and to increase sanction penalty , which the Government have say will involve people lose access to free NHS prescription and legal aid . claimant who do not find a job within 18 month will be force to undergo mandatory work placement , while those fail to comply with the rule face have their benefit cut . the Chancellor say that the work capability assessment — the test use to determine whether someone be " fit for work " — will be reform to reflect the availability of homeworke . this situation be both cruel and distressing . we should be ask what more need to be do to support our most vulnerable member of society , not see how harshly we can penalise they . the Disability Benefits Consortium , a national coalition of more than 100 charity , describe the plan as a " cynical attack on disability benefit that will have a devastating impact on those on the low income " . just one in 10 job advertise this year have offer homeworking as an option , while access to support , which might help to keep people in work for long , include mental health support and social care , be already strained and absolutely cut to ribbon . the reality be that the Chancellor last week set out a plan that will ramp up sanction and further demonise disabled people . Dr Sarah Hughes , the chief executive of Mind , say in response to the autumn statement : " the reality be that the vast majority of people with mental health problem want to work but be consistently let down by poor support across the board … the UK government must urgently rethink these plan . " I fully support those view , and those express by Disability Rights UK , an organisation run by and for disabled people , which respond to the Chancellor ' s plan by say : " for the past few month there have be a seemingly relentless attack on vulnerable , long - term sick and disabled people on benefit … for disabled and vulnerable people benefit be essential to survive financially . the fact be that for many people , benefit be their sole income because work be not an option . for those who could and want to work vague threat around the removal of benefit , removal of free prescription and sanction if not accept the first job offer be not help , in fact they be cause those already in the throe of long - term ill health and lifelong disability to suffer worsen health issue . the benefit system be the fault here , not the recipient . the UN special rapporteur on poverty and human right say in 2018 that the UK benefit system could be brand ' cruel and inhuman ' … call cut to the welfare system ' ideological ' and ' tragic ' . " a famous quote from Gandhi come to mind : " the true measure of any society can be find in how it treat its most vulnerable member . " tragically , once again the Government do not come close to measure up . once again , they be use the benefit system to target and humiliate the country ' s most vulnerable people . last week , the political editor of the Liverpool Echo , Liam Thorp , write : " the image of the emaciated body of six - stone Stephen Smith , a desperately unwell man who be deny vital benefit before his tragic death , leave an indelible mark on my mind and the mind of many other . Stephen be one of many victim of a cruel , government - lead culture that target the vulnerable and punish those in our society who need support . " at six stone , Stephen win his tribunal with the help of the much - miss Terry Craven against the Department for Work and Pensions , on its decision to declare he fit for work and deny he vital benefit . Stephen be the victim of a cruel welfare system . as the Government plan their late attack on claimant , they show that they have learn absolutely nothing from his tragic death . I will make some brief remark on the tone of the autumn statement and the expectation that it create in contrast with the reality that so many face at home in Selby and Ainsty . first , on wage and personal taxation , the Chancellor appear bullish that a 2 % cut to national insurance or a £ 1 - an - hour increase in the minimum wage be enough for a nurse in South Milford , a shop worker in Selby or a teacher in Riccall , but local people in my constituency need only look at their bank balance , mortgage rate or receipt at the till to see how empty those supposedly generous promise be . a £ 1 - an - hour minimum wage increase will not touch the side for family when food inflation remain at 10 % . parent will keep put item back on the shelf at the supermarket , and shoplift for staple such as baby formula will continue to rise — formula for which , incidentally , the price have rise by 45 % in the past two year . a 2 % increase in national insurance amount to little when the Government have already implement tax rise equivalent to a 10 % NI increase since the last election . the Government have preside over the large fall in living standard since record begin , and this be the first Parliament in modern british history where people will be bad off at the end than they be at the beginning . in the face of that damn context , the Government should come clean about the fact that their announcement will do little to offset the high - tax , high - interest - rate , high - inflation economic reality that the conservative party have create . secondly , we should , it appear , be grateful for the hard choice that the Chancellor have make to create the headroom for these measure — as if decrease inflation have be achieve by the party that wilfully endorse the catastrophic mini - budget of the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) last year , and not by the effort of the Bank of England and the economic sacrifice of mortgage holder across Selby and Ainsty , and across the rest of our country . the deep point be that these tax cut be not pain free . instead , they will be finance by bake in an era of austerity that the Resolution Foundation have call " implausible " . this be an irresponsible Chancellor , dodge the hard choice and leave a future Government to foot the bill . he say that " borrowing be just a deferred tax on future generation . " — [ Official Report , 22 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 328 . ] however , I need not remind one of the architect of the austerity agenda that spend cut that be too deep will drain Britain of its productive capacity , continue to stifle growth , and cause the poor in our society to suffer . once again it will be my generation who be force to pay the price for this decade of tory recklessness . the Secretary of State have announce that we be lean into an era of " compassionate " government as a result of this autumn statement , so I turn to the work capability assessment and the reform that will , in the word of an executive member of the charity Scope , " ramp up sanction and demonise disabled people . " the Government have an obligation to solve the long - term labour shortage and economic inactivity that prevent economic growth . instead , their reform amount to little more than a transparent gimmick that will punish the most vulnerable in society while the Government do too little to address the sky - high waiting list that hold back our labour market . despite their claim to be the voice of change , this autumn statement show that we be deal with the same old conservative . People in Selby and Ainsty pay more to get less , and the most vulnerable suffer along the way . my hon . friend the shadow Chancellor say it well when she ask whether people would " feel well off after 13 year of Conservative Government " — [ Official Report , 22 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 342 . ] and another piecemeal autumn statement . the answer , for mortgage holder , business owner , young family , doctor , nurse , teacher and all those who rely on our public service , be a resound no . as ever , we repeat the call for this Government to call a general election to deliver the Labour Government that the people of Selby and Ainsty so desperately need . Diolch yn fawr , Madam Deputy Speaker . in response to the statement last week , Mark Drakeford , the Welsh First Minister , say that " we urgently need long - term investment in our public service and growth in our economy " . he be right . this statement deliver some of the last gasp of the Tory Government . as have already be say , the Chancellor talk about growth , but the OBR have revise down its growth estimate . the Chancellor also talk about cut inflation , but again the OBR say it will remain high for long . growth be stall because investment be fall . we need to generate an even more ambitious proposal for public investment . with departmental budget lose value across the board thank to inflation , our public service be be decimate . the OBR have identify this period as " the large reduction in real living standard since ONS record begin " . this autumn statement mean that the people live through a cost of living crisis will continue to struggle and suffer : 14 million people live in poverty , include 4 million child , 10 million people go hungry and 6 million people live in fuel poverty . it be shameful that in the fifth - rich nation in the world there be so many million of people suffer . on welfare reform , I have , like other , be inundate with constituent who be struggle because of the inadequacy of the current social security system . one lady say that her family find the assessment and reassessment process complicated , intrusive , degrading and unfair . the family be appeal a decision to refuse a renewal application , and the entire experience have cause extreme stress , anxiety and financial hardship . that be just one example of people fail by a process that be completely not fit for purpose , and the further condition and sanction announce will make it far bad . as someone who work for many year in welfare benefit advice , I can assure hon . member that nobody choose not to work — and shame on those on the Government side who make comment to that effect . it be simply not the case . on public service , as my old council leader , Andrew Morgan , say last week , local service in south Wales be " on their knee " , as they be elsewhere throughout the country . local authority be struggle with fall revenue and the inability to provide vital service , and we be see increase community agitation against service cut during the bad cost of live crisis in live memory . those cut be the responsibility solely of this Tory Government . in my Cynon Valley constituency and the area serve by Rhondda Cynon Taf County Borough Council , there be protest against food price rise and council service closure and outsourcing . People be seek alternative answer and model for increasingly difficult question . People in our community , I be pleased to say , want to look at alternative such as community wealth building , by which we would generate and retain wealth within our own community — it be call cymunedoli , or communitisation . I assure the House that I will continue to work alongside constituent to organise for the change that we need . Wealth generate in Wales have be extract from our country since the industrial revolution , so I will continue challenge the dogmatic neoliberal economic approach take by this Tory Government . sadly for Wales , the purse string remain here in Westminster , and Wales be still be exploit . the UK have fail to fund make coal tip safe , have fail to fund our hs2 consequential , and have fail in the levelling - up agenda . we need a proper , fair , need - base settlement for Wales . across the UK , we need public investment , decent public service and pay restoration for public servant , and we need to scrap sanction on social security . we must stop invest in fossil fuel ; otherwise , we will accelerate the climate catastrophe . we need to increase Treasury revenue to fund that change through progressive wealth taxis , include inheritance , land and property taxis . in my home of Cynon valley and the south Wales valley , we have a strong history of be at the forefront of change and of working - class organisation and struggle . we be organise again , and we demand to be treat fairly and with respect . we can , and we will , deliver change for our community . we deserve well , and our future generation deserve a future . Errol Graham starve to death in his own home . when his body be find , he weigh just 4 ½ stone . Errol be a grandfather . he be disabled and suffer from severe mental ill - health . he live alone in his flat , where , at the time of his death , he have no hot water , no heating and no income for food and utility . a few month before he die , Errol ' s out - of - work and housing benefit be stop . review into Errol ' s death criticise the Department for Work and Pensions for its handling of his case and find that the authority repeatedly miss opportunity to help he . Errol ' s death be utterly tragic , but it be not unavoidable or isolate . a BBC investigation find that since 2012 , 82 people have die after allege DWP activity such as the termination of social security support . the life of disabled people across the country be make more difficult , more insecure and more beset by fear and anxiety because of the cruel and callous policy enact by conservative government . I highlight that because a central feature of this autumn statement be a renew assault on the right of sick and disabled people . that assault range from the threat of totally withdraw disabled people ' s out - of - work benefit if they can not find work after 18 month to new sanction that could see people lose access to free NHS prescription and legal aid . rather than demonstrate that damn lesson of past DWP failure have be learn , those policy be recipe for more tragedy and more people die alone in desperate need . as my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) highlight early in the debate , that scapegoate come on the back of the Government ' s desperate attempt to demonise other marginalised group — none more so than migrant and refugee . in both instance , the Government be play divide and rule . they say that the problem with our public service be not school budget be slash , NHS funding cut or privatisation ; instead , they tell the british public that their problem be the migrant next door or the disabled person down the road . the intent be the same : to distract and divide , even if it mean punish the poor and vulnerable , and heap misery upon misery . it be little wonder that the Government be do so now : as the Office for Budget Responsibility have make clear , Britain face the big hit to living standard since record begin . the outlook be set to get bad , with the OBR highlighting that this autumn statement bake in a new round of austerity cut . the real value of Government departmental spending be set to be slash by nearly £ 20 billion by 2028 . behind those cut , and behind the demonisation of the poor and marginalise , be a myth that pervade our politic : the myth that there be not enough to go round . it be true that there be not enough to go round for ordinary people , as our constituent know too well . million of people be struggle to make end meet . More than 14 million people be live below the poverty line , include more than 4 million child , and last year the Joseph Rowntree Foundation find that 3 . 8 million people experience destitution . that be define as severe poverty , where people can not afford basic need — that do not mean just struggle to pay the bill and keep food on the table , but choose between heating and eating , a choice that become more and more painful as winter bite . while the majority of people be struggle to make end meet , it be simply a myth that there be not enough to go round , because last year , for example , the wealth of Britain ' s billionaire grow by more than £ 30 billion , up to nearly £ 700 billion . I will break that down : that be seven follow by 11 zero . that obscene wealth be match by the profit of some of the big company in the country , from the four big bank — Lloyds , Barclays , HSBC and NatWest , which see pre - tax profit rocket by 79 % this year — to the like of Amazon , which see global profit nearly triple this year to around £ 8 billion . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the brave worker at Amazon ' s Coventry warehouse , who become the first in UK history to go on strike after they be offer a pay rise worth just 35p . I be proud to join they again on the picket line on Friday in that company ' s big ever global strike . what be true of Amazon be true of society as a whole : the problem be not that there be not enough wealth , but that the super - rich be hoard all the wealth , and that can be tackle . an annual wealth tax of just 1 . 5 % on asset over £ 10 million , for example , would raise £ 12 billion a year . equalise capital gain tax with income tax rate would raise another £ 15 billion a year , and end the non - dom tax break for the super - rich would raise a furth £ 3 billion a year . that be money we could use to invest in our community , to reverse 13 year of austerity , and to build a social security system that treat sick and disabled people with the dignity and respect they deserve . it could do everything from fund universal free school meal and end the cruel two - child limit to properly fund our school and hospital , rebuild collapse infrastructure and give hope to everyone in every corner of this country . this fail Tory Government will never do that , so it must be the mission of the next Labour Government . as the 562nd woman to be elect to this place , I welcome the hon . member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) , who be the 563rd and also another Sarah . this Conservative Government have leave family to struggle , without access to vital health service and with food inflation at 10 % , while try to manage sky - high mortgage repayment . the Government ' s response be to claim to cut taxis while take £ 45 billion a year through frozen threshold and stealth tax hike , and punish those who be too sick to work or be unable to afford vital medical treatment . my constituent across Somerton and Frome have tell I that they want access to three thing : dentist , GPs and pharmacy . this autumn statement will do nothing to resolve the national crisis that those essential health service be face . the Government seem unable to understand that a healthy economy need a healthy population , and both those thing require a healthy nhs . I be unsure whether this Government be aware of just how bad thing be in rural Somerset . our dentist service be in decay : in 2022 , only 38 % of adult in Somerset be able to access a dentist in the previous two year . that statistic be no surprise , give that there be only one dentist deliver NHS service for every 1 , 773 people in the county . many dentist in Somerton and Frome tell I they be close their list , and there be no NHS dentist currently take on new adult patient . on the doorstep , I meet more and more people who , shockingly , have turn to DIY dentistry out of desperation . the Government should have heed Liberal Democrat call to begin to address this crisis , because access to dentistry be an essential part of healthcare , not a cosmetic benefit . accord to the Resolution Foundation , go into the autumn statement the Chancellor have fiscal headroom for additional spending worth an extra £ 13 billion a year . the liberal Democrats would have use that windfall to tackle the NHS crisis and end DIY dentistry and the dental desert we now see across Somerset , give people the quality care they deserve and allow more people to return to work to grow our economy . instead , the Government be slash the NHS budget by £ 5 billion next year . my constituent be also unable to access GP service . a constituent have recently inform I that they contact their gp regard severe inner ear pain , but they be unable to get an appointment with their local gp . this force they to seek expensive private treatment for something that , if leave untreated , would have have a detrimental impact on their quality of life . another constituent struggle to get an appointment to look at a hernia , but after wait in pain for week , they be force to go private . they be then diagnose with an incarcerated hernia — a condition that can be life - threaten if leave untreated . the number of GPs in Somerset have decline by 59 since December 2016 , and a fully qualified gp in Somerset now have 2 , 157 patient . however , this be not isolate just to Somerset . People live in South Cambridgeshire , for example , be also feel the acute effect of a lack of GP service . here , there be one fully qualified GP for every 2 , 420 patient , which be 120 more patient per fully qualified GP than the England average . the liberal Democrats would have use the extra £ 13 billion to deliver 8 , 000 more gps and create 65 million more appointment every year . finally , pharmacy play a vital role in rural area . pharmacist be qualified clinical professional who help remove some of the immense burden on hospital and GPs , yet the Government continue to treat they as an afterthought . we be about to see a pharmacy in Wincanton close , which will only increase pressure and force resident to travel far to access a pharmacy . community pharmacy be face financial pressure and a recruitment crisis . we need to ensure their viability and sustainability nationwide . the liberal Democrats would provide urgent emergency funding to keep pharmacy open and reverse closure , alongside provide pharmacy with great prescribing right to ease pressure on GPs . instead of invest in our NHS , grow the economy and help people with the cost of living crisis , all the Conservatives have to offer be more chaos and mismanagement . the Liberal Democrats have a long - term plan for the NHS , but this government either do not get it , or they simply do not care . I want to start where a number of my hon . friend have in this debate , which be talk about community facility that be fill gap where the Government be fail . a few week ago , I visit a fantastic community resource in Burnbank in Hamilton in my constituency , which be provide emergency food parcel , but also do a lot to support people back into work through thing such as improve IT skill so people can improve their cv . far from the image that the Government might like to give about people not in work , they be do everything they can to find employment , and the least the Government could have do last week be to meet they halfway . there be a number of thing in the autumn statement that I do support . the increase in the minimum wage , however it have be rebrande , be welcome , although it have not keep pace with the real living wage , which mean that the wage of many of the low earner be still not keep up with their cost . I welcome the commitment to uprate benefit by the September rate of CPI , although since that be the convention anyway I be not sure the Chancellor deserve any applause for it . the reality be that a year on from the ill - fate mini - Budget we have a Government engage in smoke and mirror , give out with pre - election frenzy what they have take away tenfold before . we have a Government who claim to improve living standard while the OBR find the complete opposite : the large reduction in living standard since record begin in the 1950 . perhaps most damaging of all , the rate of poverty and destitution in the UK be forecast to go up , not down . that in itself be a damn indictment of any Government , and I confess that I struggle to comprehend it . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation reveal that a staggering 3 . 8 million people experience destitution last year , more than double the figure in the last five year — and , most shamefully of all , that figure include 1 million child . the social security system , our great collective invention to provide the cradle - to - grave support that people need when they need it most , be not touch the side of this crisis . some 72 % of those destitute be in receipt of benefit . one of the most affected group be those with a disability and chronic health problem ; some 63 % of people experience destitution fit into that category . I will focus my remark on that group , and I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be the trustee of two charity work with people with disability . alongside the failure to provide the kind of boost to living standard that would have make a real difference , the Chancellor seek to use his autumn statement to demonise those with long - term condition who rely on benefit . on work capability assessment , the removal of the mobility descriptor will mean those with severe mobility issue be place in the limit capability for work group , mean they will receive less support every month and be expect to prepare for work they might simply not be able to do . disabled people have enormous potential and , as many of my hon . friend have say , I do not think anyone would suggest that those who be able to get into work should not be give the support to do so , but the key be to understand the support they need . the Multiple Sclerosis Society recently highlight the issue of workplace not provide the reasonable adjustment necessary to provide for flexible working . I recently speak to a person in my constituency who have very severe epilepsy . resistant to most epilepsy medication , if he have a seizure he require emergency medication and for a number of day afterwards be completely exhausted . for people with such neurological condition there be not a uniform pattern of health issue ; they change from day to day and week to week . the holistic support provide to people to get into work must reflect that . much of what the Chancellor say seem to be predicate on the assumption that the world of work have change since the pandemic and that everybody be somehow now able to work from home , but I would be curious to know what evidence he have to base that on . what proportion of current job vacancy be list as home - base , and what proportion have flexible working arrangement ? disabled people predominantly occupy lower - pay job and , as a number of colleague have say , most vacancy for homeworke tend to be in the high pay band and high - qualified sector . it be clear that the Chancellor ' s lack of understanding of disabled people ' s real live experience mean this patronise side note in the autumn statement will do real damage . charity have line up to criticise it as stigmatise , with the assumption yet again that disabled people do not want to work and be somehow a drain on our economy . a constituent with spina bifida who do fantastic work on integration with refugee community in Glasgow have have cut to her benefit and care package , mean she might not be able to continue in work any long . she put it very well , say she " feel like a cost , a negative on a balance sheet not a person with ability and aim in life . " we need to reframe this whole conversation . when consider the autumn statement in the round , we must look at these specific measure that be not do anywhere near enough to lift people out of poverty . for a particular group of people who be most likely to experience destitution , not only will the autumn statement not make their life well , but it will actively make they more difficult . that should never be the aim of a Government , and I hope this will lead to a rethink on some of the specific measure outline last week . the Chancellor ' s autumn statement be yet another assault on the poor , long - term sick and disabled — one that be both deadly and economically illiterate . thirteen year of conservative policy have cause untold misery for the poor , and especially for disabled people , and have be link to hundred of thousand of excess death . a University of Glasgow study last year find that more than 330 , 000 excess death be the result of austerity , and that austerity have not just halt the decade - long increase in UK life expectancy , but throw it into complete reverse , especially among poor people . rather than respond to the appalling effect of those policy by change course , the Government be now intensify their attack on the poor , sick and disabled , scapegoate and demonise they for the Government ' s failure to grow the economy . this country already have by far the bad out - of - work benefit of any comparable european nation and one of the harsh conditionality regime , yet the Chancellor will now punish claimant for not engage with state - sanction coercive therapy while the Government usurp the role of medical expert in decide who be fit for work . capitalism and oppression rely on the exploitation of human labour , and it seem that not even the exploitation of disabled people ' s labour be off the table in the competitive drive to accumulate even more wealth for the rich . People ' s wellbee be a secondary concern for capitalism , and oppression through vicious sanction be the necessary corollary . the escalation of the already punitive sanction regime will see the work class , include the long - term sick , cut off even from support with healthcare . the awful consequence of those move be not hard to predict , especially for those with long - term complex health condition or disability , or those suffer poor mental health . as long ago as 2014 , NHS datum show that more than four in 10 people claim out - of - work disability benefit — more than double the figure from the previous survey — have attempt suicide because of the punishing and attritional fit - for - work regime . under successive conservative Governments , the treatment of disabled people have be so horrific that the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with disability condemn the UK for create " a human catastrophe " . to the shame of this Government , the UK have 14 million people in poverty , well over 4 million of they child . child from family with a disabled or long - term sick member be more than twice as likely to live in poverty . that figure be measure before the impact of the pandemic and the cost of living crisis . the Government claim that the sanction they intend to apply in cut off universal credit to the poor will not be apply to those with child or to people with disability , but medical professional and disability campaigner point out that , base on the Government ' s track record , the new regime will clearly be use to legitimise discrimination against people with chronic illness or disability . that be unequivocally against the european convention on human right , but also fundamentally counterproductive . as economist have point out , it be overwhelmingly clear that if we want to grow the economy , we need to redistribute wealth , invest in community and put more money into the pocket of the poor , the work class and the bad - off , because they will spend it locally and increase economic activity . instead , the Chancellor have announce tax cut for the wealthy and for corporation — money that will end up in offshore bank account , where it do nothing for our economy . this late assault on the poor and disabled will do the opposite of what the Chancellor claim to be try to achieve . our country desperately need politician who put physical , emotional and economic health above an ideological commitment to help the rich and hit the poor , the sick and the disabled . tragically for the million of struggle poor people in this country , the Chancellor and the Prime Minister be again do the opposite of what they need . the Government ' s proposal be part of an ideological attack on the work class . the Chancellor ' s statement betray those who most need help . it be simply unfit for purpose . the autumn statement may have be intend as something of a pre - election sweetener , but for most people in Wales it have a bitter taste . the intended big news be , of course , the tax cut and , in Wales as elsewhere , a few small persuader for some favour Tory marginal — but not for other , as we will see at the next election . the reality be the big drop in living standard since record begin and , as we have hear , the high tax burden since the second world war . the Chancellor ' s speech give little relief and even less hope to Welsh household and leave our public service in an even more desperate condition . on Thursday , we will no doubt hear right hon . and hon . member on the Government Benches make a great deal of the intended cut to national insurance . I look forward to hear at least one of they also note that tax threshold have be freeze , push 4 million low - pay worker into income tax and 3 million people into a high tax band , which strike I as something of an own goal for the conservative party at the next election . the wholly predictable regional truth be that the national insurance cut predominantly favour London and the south - east , where it offer an average gain of £ 316 annually , while those in Wales , for example , stand to gain £ 211 . that amplifie rather than relieve Wales ' s economic plight . our public service continue to wither without the investment need . bus , railway , healthcare , sustainable energy and other such initiative in Wales be desperate for proper funding , yet the projection for departmental budget show a £ 19 billion cut . we have be through many year of crisis , yet our economy be not prepare for the shock of the future — an age population , high Government debt , high interest rate , energy insecurity and , of course , climate change — because we be see the consequence of failure to act over 13 long year . a report publish today by the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit find that , due to the combination of energy cost and climate change impact across 2022 and 2023 , household food bill have increase by an average of £ 605 . climate cost account for 60 % of that — £ 361 per household . wale desperately need to break from the economic doom loop cause by chronic short - termism . the autumn statement tighten the trap of short - term thinking . it be a cycle in which we be tell that investment be not possible because we can not afford it , but failure to invest weaken our economy even far . Plaid Cymru have outline fair and ambitious plan for Wales , which include replace the Barnett formula with a funding system base on need . we would also devolve the Crown Estate to Wales , as have be do in Scotland , ensure that the profit of our natural resource be invest back into our community . but we also need practical help for the immediate cost of living pressure face by ordinary people . for example , we ask for moderate measure to help with petrol and diesel cost . major supermarket fuel retailer be enjoy record profit margin by overcharge at the pump , despite reduce wholesale fuel price . we call on the Chancellor to pressure the large fuel retailer to reduce price when wholesale cost fall . the rural fuel duty relief scheme currently give 5p relief to rural area in England and Scotland . extend it to Wales would have help people in rural area who be sadly reliant on car due to our terrible public transport system , but the Chancellor choose not to act . we urge the Government to address the severe geographical disparity in energy bill stand charge . resident in Wales pay £ 80 more than Londoners every year , though we produce much more electricity than London . the stark inequality require urgent action by the Treasury and further underline the need for a fair energy pricing system , include the development of a social tariff but , again , the Chancellor choose not to act . Wales deserve more than empty promise . we be ask for — indeed , we be demand — fairness , investment and a genuine commitment to rid our community of poverty and the lack of opportunity . the autumn statement deliver none of that . it be further proof to we that London - base economic policymaking will never work in the interest of Wales . last week , as the Chancellor of the Exchequer set out his autumn statement , there be much anticipation about what kind of rabbit would be pull out of the hat . despite the Chancellor ' s upbeat delivery , the performance be less Harry Potter magic and more Paul Daniels - style trickery . almost all of the Government ' s financial headroom — the amount they have leave over after their commitment — be blow on a small tweak to national insurance contribution . the Chancellor laud the change , suggest that they would save people hundred of pound every year , but he fail to mention that even with the change , the average person will pay more in tax overall . I can see that the cost of covid must be pay for , but I object to the spinning of a large tax burden as a small one . that be partly because the Chancellor continue a freeze on tax threshold — the level at which our constituent start to pay tax . high inflation mean that many more will be drag into pay more tax , whether at the high or the basic rate . that be give with one hand while take substantially more with the other . the Resolution Foundation have identify that under the plan , taxis will rise by the equivalent of £ 4 , 300 per household in the decade from 2019 . even by the end of this Parliament , it expect that household will be £ 1 , 900 bad off than at the beginning of it . in Government , the Liberal Democrats deliver tax cut for million by double the amount someone could earn before they start pay tax . by contrast , this Conservative Government be one of the high tax government in history , allow increase number of low and middle - income earner to be drag into pay ever increase amount of tax . it be simply not sustainable . we need more efficient spending of public money , with targeted investment , to ease the squeeze and save we money down the line . for example , of the £ 784 billion of taxpayer money that the UK Government spend last year , £ 39 . 3 billion be give to household as an energy subsidy . it would not have be necessary to give away so much of that taxpayer money have Lord Cameron , as Prime Minister , not cut the " green crap " . there be a couple of welcome measure in the statement . I be pleased to see the extension of the business rate discount , include for retail , hospitality and leisure business , of which we have many excellent one in my part of east Devon . the decision to keep the triple lock on pension be also welcome , and ensure that pension rise to match earning , give pensioner peace of mind and financial security . I call for that in Treasury question less than a fortnight ago , so it be pleasing to see it rise in line with earning at 8 . 5 % . but the rest of the autumn statement be notable for what the Chancellor do not say . there be no additional money for the NHS or social care , despite the fact that the winter cold be already start to set in . I be genuinely puzzle by that . it be a disastrous oversight that risk inflict real challenge on our dedicated health professional and our community in the year ahead . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be lucky : like I , he represent a constituency in Devon . that mean he know how much people in Devon value our community hospital . in my own corner of Devon , Seaton Community Hospital be at risk of have a whole ward of the facility strip away to be sell off or even demolish . that be due to the continue squeeze on local healthcare budget , with Devon NHS alone face an almost £ 40 million shortfall . the Chancellor ' s statement do nothing to address that grim situation . there be also a distinct lack of funding to help clean up our river and beach . because of the wayward activity of water company and the fact that the Government have just leave this issue to Ofwat , we be see huge level of raw sewage put into our once pristine local river and beach . that be harm biodiversity and put the health of people and animal at risk . the scandal also pervade England ' s chalk stream . for example , those that empty into the River Itchen near Winchester contain unique biodiversity and ecosystem . our site of special scientific interest also see sewage dumping and ecological vandalism . how would I sum up the autumn statement ? overall , it sum up the current Conservative Government : out of touch . flounder for a buoyancy vest , their party ship continue to list and sink . our community deserve well . Devon deserve well . I call the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury . it be a pleasure to close this debate , and the debate on the autumn statement as a whole , on behalf of the Opposition . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the new Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) for her excellent maiden speech and welcome she to the House , and to the shadow Work and Pensions Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , for her comprehensive and damning opening on the Government ' s record . I also pay a particular tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and express my condolence for the loss of his constituent . it be a tragedy that he do not see justice from the Post Office Horizon scandal before he die , but I know that he and his family will be proud of the work that my right hon . friend have do over many , many year to bring justice to those who have be affect . more broadly , we have hear a range of excellent speech , include from my hon . friend the Members for Halton ( Derek Twigg ) , for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) , for Ealing , Southall ( Mr Sharma ) , for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) and for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , to name just a few who set out from their constituency how , even though the Conservatives tell we thing be do alright , the live reality for family across the country be anything but . we also hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) about the amount of money the Government have waste over many , many year , and what that could do to support people in constituency across the country , include Blaydon , Lewisham East , Newport West , Liverpool , West Derby , Cynon Valley , Coventry South , and Rutherglen and Hamilton West . lastly , we hear from my hon . friend the Members for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) , for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) , for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) and for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) about 13 year of conservative failure on the economy and the consequence for their constituent . over the course of the past few day of the debate — and note , if I may say so , how few Conservative Members contribute to the debate today to defend the Government ' s record — it have be clear that we on the Labour Benches have the idea and the energy to turn the economy around , while on the conservative Benches , after 13 year of conservative failure on the economy , it seem the Tory bandwagon have run out of fuel , leave its Back Benchers argue on the side of the road about who should be give the key next while the real world move on , leave our country and the british people behind . let I now turn to the autumn statement itself . well , what can I say , Madam Deputy Speaker ? a fiction , a fantasy , a fallacy , an all - round F grade for an autumn statement that fail to deliver the change that our country need . even the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies have point out , with some surprise , that " a lot of these number … be sort of make up . " but it be bad than that , because the Conservatives want the public to believe in their financial folklore . when he announce his autumn statement last week , the Chancellor say : " we be stick to a plan that be work . " — [ Official Report , 22 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 337 . ] the plan be work ? really ? we all know that , irrespective of which side of the House we sit on , if we ask our constituent , " what in this country be work right now ? " , they would say " absolutely nothing at all . " how strange , therefore , that this Conservative Government , who appear to be so lack in vision for our country , can be so good at play make - believe . the Conservatives keep tell we that we have never have it so good — that everything be fine — but here in the real world , people have real problem : unaffordable food bill , unaffordable mortgage bill , unaffordable energy bill . many conservative Members seem to think those be not problem for work people across the country , but , remarkably , this be the first Parliament on record — the first Conservative Parliament — in which , by the end of the Conservatives ' time in office , people and their living standard will have fall , not improve . those be the hard reality that people be face . we know why people be face these financial pressure , and why living standard in the UK be fall . irrespective of what we be tell by Conservative Ministers , economic growth have be downgrade , not upgrade . the tax burden weigh heavy than ever , not light , and high inflation be linger , not fleeting . on every measure on the dashboard of the UK economy , the red light be flash . the Conservatives would have we believe that tax be down when it be up , that the cost of living crisis have end when energy bill be go up once again , and that this autumn statement will somehow stimulate economic growth when even the Governor of the Bank of England have say of growth that " there ' s no doubt it ' s low than it have be in much of my work life . " the Tories want to spin a tale that the late conservative Prime Minister be the hero of the story , a real - life Robin Hood bring tax cut to help work people , but there be a few serious hole in that story . first , the Prime Minister be not new to the scene , but have play a prominent role in this Conservative Government for many year — a Conservative Government who have introduce 25 tax rise in this Parliament alone , and a further 12 Tory stealth taxis just in the autumn statement . secondly , it be this Conservative Government who decide to put income tax and national insurance threshold on ice , which mean that million of people be be drag into pay more tax . thirdly , as a consequence , the tax cut be not cut in real term at all . the Conservatives ' 25 tax rise have see work people hand over an extra 10p in every pound they earn . so while I welcome the last week ' s announcement of a 2p cut in national insurance , I do so with a very slow clap . everyone at home know that the Conservatives may be give out a few hundred quid in the autumn statement with one hand , but they have already take thousand of pound more from we , each and every year , with the other . in real term , low and middle - income earner will still be bad off than they be before the Conservatives come to power , and that be a shameful record of failure . the Prime Minister be not Robin Hood ; rather he be the Sheriff of Nottingham , because never have we pay so much in taxis and have so little in return . People at home will rightly be ask , " what on earth be I pay for ? I can not get an appointment with the GP , and I can not find a dentist . why be my pay not keep up with the cost of living ? why be my rent " — or mortgage — " so much more expensive than it be before the Conservatives crash the economy , and why will my energy bill , I be tell , start to go up again ? " the Chancellor may have announce 101 policy for growth , but after 13 year of conservative failure it be just too little , too late . that be why we in the Labour Party be focus on economic growth . only by get the economy back on track will we make the british people well off again . while it be obvious that Labour be the party of good work for work people , we be now the party of business too — work in partnership to deliver the investment that the country need , co - invest alongside business to deliver a more secure , cheap energy system , and unblock the bottleneck that prevent business from create the good job that people want in the industry of the future . the Prime Minister be host his global investment summit today , but we hear from investor and business week in , week out that it be all too late . even IFM Investors , the australian infrastructure investor which have pledge investment today , have say that " government dysfunction and inefficient planning process " have mean that there be not many " attractive opportunity " leave in the UK . the message could not be clear . the UK be at risk of relegation , and change be require . that be why my Friend the shadow Chancellor and I launch the British Infrastructure Council last week , and it be why my review on how we deliver major project and infrastructure well in this country will set out how a Labour Government will get Britain build again . alongside that laser focus on economic growth , build on the Labour party ' s bedrock of fiscal responsibility — [ interruption . ] there be chuntere from the Conservative Benches , but people at home will remember one year ago when the Government crash the economy and interest rate and mortgage rate go through the roof , and those people be still suffer with the cost of living crisis today . let people at home look at Ministers on the government Benches laugh when those people can not afford to pay their bill . let they look at Conservative Members and decide whether they want even more after 13 year of conservative failure or whether , quite frankly , it be time for change . public service be one of those thing that need to change . my work in what I hope will be a future Labour Government will also be focus on reform our public service , which have be leave on their knee after 13 year of the Conservatives . in his autumn statement , the Chancellor have show that he would rather just throw what money he have leave at a problem than roll up his sleeve . with the interest on our national debt cost the british public more than £ 112 billion this year alone , he clearly have a different idea to I of what it mean to be fiscally responsible with our money . last week , the Chancellor demand that public service should be 0 . 5 % more productive each year for the next 10 year , but he do not say how . instead , I stand here with my colleague in the Labour party ready to modernise our public service . if we win the next election , we will improve outcome for people who rely on those public service , we will improve the quality of work for our public servant and we will get the public sector budget back under control , because the british people deserve well . in contrast , the Conservatives seem happy to ignore the waste and inefficiency of their spending over these past 13 year . why ? because the hard work of reform our public service and our economy require strong and accountable leadership , not fleeting change between 13 Ministers in one Department , five Prime Ministers and so many more . this Conservative Government be not strong and accountable for deliver our public service . they be weak , weak , weak . the only answer to fix the last 13 year of this Conservative Government be to close the book on their failure , to say goodbye to those last 13 year and to have a Labour Government who will unleash a decade of national renewal , so I ask the late conservative Prime Minister to do this country a favour and call an election . well , we have see it , haven ' t we — the same old labour , never knowingly miss an opportunity to talk the country down yet again . I will return to that theme in a moment because it be very serious . I be delighted , in my first debate in this House as Financial Secretary , that I get to offer the closing word in our debate on the autumn statement . I also thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions for open today ' s debate . his speech be a compelling argument for the value of work . this be an autumn statement that be good for the business of this country and good for the people of this country . we know that the two thing go hand in hand . the Minister refer to his colleague in the DWP . early today , we hear one of his colleague in the Home Office confirm that the Government have no intention of allow asylum seeker to work to help pay the cost of their accommodation . how do it make sense to say that the way to stop a disabled person be a burden on the taxpayer be to force they to work when they be not fit to , but that the way to stop an asylum seeker be a burden on the taxpayer be to ban they from work even if there be a job they want to do ? the hon . Gentleman be miss the purpose of the reform that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions clearly outline early today . perhaps if he have be in the Chamber , he could have listen to it directly . when this Government come to power , we inherit not only high unemployment from Labour , as always , but a lopsided welfare system that discourage people from even seek work . in the last 13 year , by reduce workless household , tackle low pay and reform the welfare system , we have help hundred of thousand of family out of poverty . in the wake of covid - 19 , we have nearly 1 million vacancy in the economy , yet more than 7 million adult of work age , not include student , be still not work . even Opposition Members seem to recognise that many of they want to work , and therefore we will be spend £ 1 . 3 billion over the next five year to help nearly 700 , 000 people with physical and mental health condition to find job . and we will provide a furth £ 1 . 3 billion of funding to offer extra help for the 300 , 000 people who have be unemployed for over a year , to help they find work . the Government also recognise that , to get more people work , we must back business , as it be business that create the job and pay the wage that lift up our community , as my hon . friend the Member for Clacton ( Giles Watling ) articulate . we will help the household of this country by boost business through a variety of measure outline in the autumn statement . of course , the much - ask - for full expensing will be pivotal . we be also provide £ 4 . 5 billion over five year to support strategic manufacturing sector that already have , or can gain , a competitive edge , namely in aerospace , automotive , clean energy and life science , as mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) and other . as my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) mention , we be also support small business in this autumn statement . for those small business that be so integral to their community , we be freeze the small business multiplier and extend the 75 % business rate support for retail , hospitality and leisure business for another year . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East and my hon . friend the Members for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) , and other , for highlight the importance of the tourism sector , which they know I care passionately about . we be also establish new investment zone throughout the country that will generate billion of pound of investment , as my hon . friend the Members for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) and for Clwyd South ( Simon Baynes ) highlight . there be other thing we can do to ensure that work reward worker , such as increase their rate of pay and make sure they keep more of their earning , which be exactly what we have do . we be abolish class 2 national insurance contribution and cut class 4 contribution . alongside these cut , we be raise the national living wage by 9 . 8 % to £ 11 . 44 an hour and , of course , we be cut the main rate of employee national insurance by two percentage point , give a tax cut to 27 million worker . the opposition may not appreciate that , but I assure they that their constituent do . these measure will create work , get people into work and make sure that work be rewarding , as Conservative Members have recognise , particularly my right hon . friend the Member for North East Hampshire ( Mr Jayawardena ) and my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) . before briefly address some of the other point that have be raise , I take this opportunity to congratulate the new hon . member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) on her maiden speech . she start well by praise her constituent , which be always a good move , and I wish she well in this House . the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) mention R & D , and the Government will merge the exist R & D expenditure credit scheme and small and medium - sized enterprise scheme from April 2024 . this will simplify and improve the system , help to drive innovation in the UK economy . that message of simplification be also push by my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) . these reform represent an overall increase in support to R & D company of around £ 200 million a year by 2028 - 29 . the hon . member for Gordon also mention the Scotch whisky industry . it be somewhat surprising , therefore , that his party ' s member have singularly fail to support any one of the new trade deal that we have sign and be sign , despite the fact that they support every single nation and region of the United Kingdom and be transparently in the interest of their constituent . will the Minister give way ? no , the hon . Gentleman have have plenty of time . I hope he will support the CPTPP deal when it come before the House . I always support Scotch whisky , which be a success story that we should all champion . it be a £ 6 billion export industry , and we can all be proud that 51 bottle of Scotch whisky be export every second . let we create more opportunity by support these trade deal . the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) mention the UK tax gap , and she be absolutely right to highlight that important matter but , of course , she be well aware that the tax gap be on a long - term downward trend . we have one of the low tax gap in the world . the tax gap be 7 . 5 % under Labour , and it be now at a record low of 4 . 8 % , which be something she forget to mention . perhaps most importantly , there be the context in which we have make this autumn statement , as be mention by many hon . member , particularly my right hon . friend the Members for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) and for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) and for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) . I refer to the fact that we have face difficult time , with not just one but two global shock that have have an impact on , and reverberate around , the world . that mean that we be require , expect and proud to intervene in a way that we have not have to do since the second world war . the figure be astounding : more than £ 350 billion provide during the pandemic to make sure that we support life and livelihood ; and , in the light of the invasion of Ukraine , a furth £ 100 billion of support to help those face cost of living challenge , include our pay nearly half of people ' s energy bill last winter . the Opposition seem to have a collective sense of amnesia about that ; it be astounding that they do not understand that all of this money need to be pay back . their constituent , who be manage their finance every day , completely understand that you can not spend money you do not have and if you get into debt , it need to be pay off . today , not only be the opposition criticise we for high taxis , but their solution then seem to be spend even more . that be absolute economic incompetence and show that they be completely unfit for office . the reality be that conservative increase taxis out of necessity and then reduce they out of choice , whereas the Labour party increase taxis out of necessity and out of choice . that be a fundamental difference between our party , and therefore at the first opportunity we have have to reduce taxis , because the economic circumstance be well — how disappointing be good economic news for those on the Opposition Benches — and we be now in a well economic position , we be now reduce taxis . another important theme we have see from those on the Opposition Benches be this utter pessimism and lack of confidence and faith in the UK economy . we be not pretend , for one minute , that everything be perfect ; we know , as constituency MPs , that many people in our constituency , right across the country , be suffer — we be all aware of that . however , constantly talk the UK down be not only incorrect , but bad for business and for the UK economy . I hope that the Opposition Members understand that when they be talk Britain down , they be talk worker , business and their constituency down . expectation and confidence matter , as they be what lead to investment in the UK . because of the confidence in the UK economy , we see investment announce last week by Nissan , this very day we have the global investment summit take place and we be see billion of pound more of incremental investment come into the UK . that be because other country have confidence in the UK economy , as do Conservative Members . the opposition be signal that they do not , and that be a terrible signal to send to the world . again , if you do not have confidence in the UK economy , you be not fit for office . the opposition be talk Britain down . we have see a huge amount of incremental investment . the opposition do not like to understand that , for example , we have the second high level of foreign direct investment in the world , after only the US . just recently , we have overtake France and move from be the ninth large to the eighth large manufacturing country in the world . because of our export success , we have go from be the sixth big to the fifth big exporter in the world , and we have the second large export of service of any country in the world . the opposition may not like those fact , but they be true and provide every reason why we be keen to talk Britain up . today , we have see a positive debate and measure in the autumn statement that back both business and our citizen . from a platform of progress , this be an autumn statement for growth , which will bring job , opportunity and prosperity to every corner of the country . I commend the autumn statement to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that — ( 1 ) in Schedule 1 to the Tobacco Products Duty Act 1979 ( table of rate of tobacco product duty ) , for the Table substitute — " TABLE cigarette an amount equal to the high of — ( a ) 16 . 5 % of the retail price plus £ 316 . 70 per thousand cigarette , or ( b ) £ 422 . 80 per thousand cigarette . cigar £ 395 . 03 per kilogram Hand - roll tobacco £ 412 . 32 per kilogram other smoking tobacco and chew tobacco £ 173 . 68 per kilogram Tobacco for heat £ 325 . 53 per kilogram " . ( 2 ) in consequence of the provision make by paragraph ( 1 ) , in Schedule 2 to the Travellers ' allowance order 1994 ( which provide in certain circumstance for a simplified calculation of excise duty on good bring into Great Britain ) — ( a ) in the entry relate to cigarette , for " £ 393 . 45 " substitute " £ 422 . 80 " , ( b ) in the entry relate to hand roll tobacco , for " £ 351 . 03 " substitute " £ 412 . 32 " , ( c ) in the entry relate to other smoking tobacco and chew tobacco , for " £ 161 . 62 " substitute " £ 173 . 68 " , ( d ) in the entry relate to cigar , for " £ 367 . 61 " substitute " £ 395 . 03 " , ( e ) in the entry relate to cigarillos , for " £ 367 . 61 " substitute " £ 395 . 03 " , and ( f ) in the entry relate to tobacco for heating , for " £ 90 . 88 " substitute " £ 97 . 66 " . ( 3 ) the amendment make by this Resolution come into force at 6 pm on 22 November 2023 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary to dispose of the motion make in the name of the Chancellor of the Exchequer ( Standing Order no . 51 ( 3 ) ) . 2 . capital allowance ( permanent full expensing etc ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make amend section 7 of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 so as to secure that the relief provide for in that section extend to expenditure incur on or after 1 April 2026 . 3 . corporation tax ( relief for research and development ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make about relief from corporation tax ( include by way of the payment of credit ) in respect of expenditure on research and development . 4 . corporation tax ( film , television programme and video game ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make for the purpose of corporation tax about company produce film , television programme or video game , include provision for the payment of credit in respect of expenditure on the production of those thing ana provision take effect in a future year . 5 . corporation tax ( relief for theatrical production ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make — ( a ) amend section 1217 GB of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 , and ( b ) amend other provision of Part 15c of that act so as to limit or clarify the circumstance in which relief under that Part be available . 6 . corporation tax ( relief for orchestral concert ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make — ( a ) amend section 1217QA and 1217rb of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 , and ( b ) amend other provision of Part 15d of that act so as to limit or clarify the circumstance in which relief under that Part be available . 7 . corporation tax ( relief for museum and gallery exhibition ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make — ( a ) amending section 1218zcc of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 , and ( b ) amend other provision of Part 15e of that act so as to limit or clarify the circumstance in which relief under that Part be available . 8 . administrative provision relate to creative relief resolve , that provision may be make amend Schedule 18 to the Finance Act 1998 in relation to claim under any of Parts 15 to 15e of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 . 9 . real estate investment trust resolve , that provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make amend — ( a ) section 528 to 528ZB , 529 , 535A , 544 , 551 , 553 and 606 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 , and ( b ) section 452 of the Taxation ( International and Other Provisions ) Act 2010 . 10 . tonnage tax Resolved , that provision may be make — ( a ) apply tonnage tax to manager of ship , and ( b ) increase the capital allowance limit for the leasing of ship . 11 . extension of EIS relief and VCT relief Resolved , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make for EIS relief and VCT relief to be available in relation to share issue after 5 April 2025 . 12 . relief for payment of compensation to company ( Horizon etc ) resolve , that provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make — ( a ) for relief from tax in the case of payment of compensation to company in connection with the Horizon computer system use by , and other policy adopt by , Post Office Limited , and ( b ) confer a power on the Treasury to provide for relief from tax in other case involve payment of compensation to company by or on behalf of public authority . 13 . enterprise management incentive ( time limit ) resolve , that provision may be make about the time limit for the giving of notice of option and enquiry under Schedule 5 to the Income Tax ( Earnings and Pensions ) Act 2003 . 14 . pension ( provision connect with abolition of lifetime allowance charge ) resolve , that provision may be make in consequence of , or otherwise in connection with , the provision make by section 18 , 19 and 23 of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 . 15 . pension ( member of Parliament etc ) resolve , that provision may be make in relation to pension scheme for member of Parliament , Members of the Senedd and Members of the Northern Ireland Assembly in connection with exercise to be undertake by those scheme for rectify discrimination in the way in which benefit cease to be determine by reference to a member ' s final salary . 16 . income tax ( calculation of profit on cash basis ) resolve , that provision may be make for the purpose of income tax about the calculation of the profit of a trade , profession or vocation on the cash basis . 17 . paye regulation ( special type of payer or payee ) resolve , that provision may be make enable PAYE regulation to make provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) in a case where — ( a ) a person would otherwise be liable to pay tax in consequence of be treat under section 61n ( 3 ) of the Income Tax ( Earnings and Pensions ) Act 2003 as have make a payment , and ( b ) tax have already be pay or assess in respect of income referable to that payment . 18 . carer ' s allowance supplement ( correction of reference ) resolve , that provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make correct the reference to the statutory provision in the entry for carer ' s allowance supplement in table a in section 660 of the Income Tax ( Earnings and Pensions ) Act 2003 . 19 . Stamp duty reserve tax ( growth market exemption ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) section 99a of the Finance Act 1986 ( meaning of " recognise growth market " etc ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , after " recognise stock exchange " insert " or a qualify UK multilateral trading facility " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " £ 170 million " substitute " £ 450 million " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 6 ) , at the end insert " ; " UK multilateral trading facility " have the meaning give bv Article 2 . 1 . 14a of Regulation ( EU ) no . 600 / 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on market in financial instrument as it form part of assimilated law . " ( 4 ) after subsection ( 6 ) insert — " ( 6a ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) a UK multilateral trading facility be " qualify " if — ( a ) it be operate by an investment firm within the meaning give by article 3 ( 1 ) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( Regulated Activities ) Order 2001 ( S . I . 2001 / 544 ) , and ( b ) the investment firm have permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to carry on the regulated activity ( within the meaning of that Act ) of operate a multilateral trading facility . " ( 5 ) the amendment make by this Resolution come into force on 1 January 2024 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 20 . stamp duty ( capital - raise arrangement etc ) resolve , that the follow provision have effect for the period begin with the day on which this Resolution be pass and end 31 day after the early of the date mention in section 50 ( 2 ) of the Finance Act 1973 — depositary receipt and clearance service ( 1 ) the Finance Act 1986 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 67 ( stamp duty : depositary receipt ) — ( a ) in the heading , at the end insert " 1 . 5 % charge " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) omit " ( other than a bearer instrument ) " ; ( c ) after that subsection insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) " instrument " do not include — ( a ) a bearer instrument ( see subsection ( 9A ) ) ; ( b ) an exempt capital - raise instrument ( see section 72za ) ; ( c ) an exempt list instrument ( see section 72ZB ) . " ; ( d ) after subsection ( 9 ) insert — " ( 9ZA ) where an instrument transfer share in a company which be hold by the company ( whether in accordance with section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 ( treasury share ) or otherwise ) , subsection ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) do not apply and stamp duty be not chargeable on the instrument . " ( 3 ) in section 69 ( depositary receipt : supplementary ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " section 67 and 68 above " substitute " section 67 , 68 and 72ZB " . ( 4 ) in section 70 ( stamp duty : clearance service ) — ( a ) in the heading , at the end insert " 1 . 5 % charge " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) omit " ( other than a bearer instrument ) " ; ( c ) after that subsection insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) " instrument " do not include — ( a ) a bearer instrument ( see subsection ( 9A ) ) ; ( b ) an exempt capital - raise instrument ( see section 72za ) ; ( c ) an exempt list instrument ( see section 72ZB ) . " ; ( d ) after subsection ( 9 ) insert — " ( 9ZA ) where an instrument transfer share in a company which be hold by the company ( whether in accordance with section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 ( treasury share ) or otherwise ) , subsection ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) do not apply and stamp duty be not chargeable on the instrument . " ( 5 ) after section 72 ( clearance service : supplementary ) insert — " mean of " exempt capital - raise instrument " and " exempt list instrument " 72ZA meaning of " exempt capital - raise instrument " ( 1 ) for the purpose of section 67 and 70 , an instrument be an " exempt capital - raise instrument " if the instrument transfer relevant security in the course of capital - raise arrangement . ( 2 ) in this section , " capital - raise arrangement " mean arrangement pursuant to which relevant security be issue by a company for the purpose of raise new capital . ( 3 ) an instrument be not prevent from be an exempt capital - raise instrument by reason only of a delay in transfer relevant security where — ( a ) a person ( " the transferor " ) acquire the relevant security — ( i ) before capital - raise arrangement be enter into , or ( ii ) in the course of capital - raise arrangement , ( b ) the transferor be subject to a restriction that have the effect of prevent the transfer of the relevant security in the course of the capital - raise arrangement , and ( c ) the instrument transfer the relevant security as soon as reasonably practicable after the time at which the restriction cease to have effect . 72ZB meaning of " exempt list instrument " ( 1 ) for the purpose of section 67 and 70 , an instrument be an " exempt list instrument " if — ( a ) the instrument transfer relevant security of a company in the course of qualifying list arrangement , and ( b ) those arrangement do not affect the beneficial ownership of the relevant security . ( 2 ) in this section , " list arrangement " mean arrangement pursuant to which relevant security , or depositary receipt for relevant security , be list on a recognise stock exchange . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , list arrangement be " qualify " if , immediately before the first transfer of relevant security in the course of the list arrangement , no relevant security in the company or depositary receipt for relevant security in the company be list on the recognise stock exchange to which the list arrangement relate . ( 4 ) an instrument be not prevent from be an exempt listing instrument by reason only of a delay in transfer relevant security where — ( a ) a person ( " the transferor " ) acquire the relevant security before qualify list arrangement be enter into , ( b ) the transferor be subject to a restriction that have the effect of prevent the transfer of the relevant security in the course of the qualifying list arrangement , and ( c ) the instrument transfer the relevant security as soon as reasonably practicable after the time at which the restriction cease to have effect . ( 5 ) section 1005 of the Income Tax Act 2007 ( meaning of " recognise stock exchange " , " list " etc ) apply in relation to this section as it apply in relation to the Income Tax act . " Bearer instrument ( 6 ) in section 79 of the Finance Act 1986 ( stamp duty : loan capital : new provision ) , in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) omit " on the issue of an instrument which relate to loan capital or " ; ( b ) for " such an instrument " substitute " an instrument which relate to loan capital " . ( 7 ) section 50 of the Finance Act 1987 ( warrant to purchase Government stock etc ) be amend as follow — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( i ) omit paragraph ( a ) ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " such an instrument " substitute " an instrument which relate to an interest , right or option within subsection ( 1 ) " . ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( i ) omit paragraph ( b ) ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( c ) , for " under that schedule " substitute " under Schedule 15 to the Finance Act 1999 ( stamp duty : bearer instrument ) " . ( 8 ) schedule 15 to the Finance Act 1999 ( stamp duty : bearer instrument ) be amend as follow — ( a ) omit paragraph 1 ( charge on issue of instrument ) and the italic head before it ; ( b ) in paragraph 2 ( charge on transfer of stock by mean of instrument ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) omit " duty be not chargeable under paragraph 1 on the issue of the instrument and " ; ( c ) in paragraph 4 ( 1 . 5 % rate of duty ) omit " or 6 " ; ( d ) omit paragraph 7 ( ascertainment of market value for charge on issue of instrument ) ; ( e ) in paragraph 17 ( exemption for issue of instrument relate to non - sterling stock ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) — ( i ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) omit " the issue of " ; ( ii ) omit the word after paragraph ( b ) ; ( f ) omit the italic head before paragraph 21 ; ( g ) omit paragraph 21 ( procedure for stamp instrument where duty chargeable on issue ) ; ( h ) omit paragraph 22 ( consequence of default in comply with procedure for stamp ) . commencement and transitional provision ( 9 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to instrument execute on or after 1 January 2024 . ( 10 ) paragraph ( 11 ) apply in relation to security constitute by or transferable by mean of an instrument issue before 1 January 2024 . ( 11 ) the amendment make by paragraph ( 7 ) be to be disregard . ( 12 ) paragraph ( 13 ) apply in relation to bearer instrument issue before 1 January 2024 - ( a ) in the United Kingdom , or ( b ) outside the United Kingdom by or on behalf of a UK company . ( 13 ) the amendment make by paragraph ( 8 ) ( b ) be to be disregard . ( 14 ) in paragraph ( 12 ) " bearer instrument " and " UK company " have the same meaning as in Schedule 15 to the Finance Act 1999 ( see paragraph 3 and 11 of that schedule ) . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of section 50 of the Finance Act 1973 . 21 . stamp duty reserve tax ( capital - raise arrangement etc ) resolve , that — depositary receipt and clearance service ( 1 ) the Finance Act 1986 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) section 90 ( section 87 : other exception ) be amend as follow — ( a ) in subsection ( 3c ) — ( i ) at the end of paragraph ( a ) insert " and " ; ( ii ) omit paragraph ( b ) ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3e ) omit paragraph ( b ) ; ( c ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( i ) the word from " fall within " to the end become paragraph ( a ) ; ( ii ) after that paragraph insert " , or ( b ) which would fall within section 93 ( 1 ) or section 96 ( 1 ) if the reference in section 93 or section 96 ( as the case may be ) to the transfer of chargeable security include the issue of chargeable security . " ( 3 ) in the italic head before section 93 ( SDRT : depositary receipt ) , at the end insert " : depositary receipt " . ( 4 ) in section 93 — ( a ) in the heading , at the end insert 1 . 5 % charge " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( i ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) omit " subject to subsection ( 7 ) below and section 95 below , " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( b ) omit " or issue " ; ( c ) after that subsection insert — " ( 1A ) the follow provision contain exception to the charge to stamp duty reserve tax under this section — ( a ) subsection ( 7 ) of this section ( exception so far as stamp duty be chargeable ) ; ( b ) section 95 ( general exception ) ; ( c ) section 95a ( replacement security ) ; ( d ) section 97ab ( exempt capital - raise transfer ) ; ( e ) section 97ac ( exempt list transfer ) ; ( f ) section 97ad ( exception for transfer of share hold by issue company ) ; ( g ) section 97b ( transfer between depositary receipt system and clearance system ) . " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 4 ) omit paragraph ( a ) ; ( e ) omit subsection ( 10 ) . ( 5 ) in section 94 ( depositary receipt : supplementary ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " section 93 above " substitute " section 93 and 97AC " . ( 6 ) in section 95 ( depositary receipt : exception ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , in the word after paragraph ( b ) omit " subject to section 97c , " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 2 ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) omit " , issue " ; ( c ) omit subsection ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) ; ( d ) omit subsection ( 7 ) . ( 7 ) in section 95a ( depositary receipt : exception for replacement security ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) omit " , issue " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( i ) in paragraph ( a ) , in the word before sub - paragraph ( i ) omit " , issue " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( b ) omit " or ( 3 ) " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 4 ) , in paragraph ( a ) omit issue " . ( 8 ) before section 96 ( SDRT : clearance service ) insert — " other charge : clearance service " . ( 9 ) in section 96 — ( a ) in the heading , at the end insert 1 . 5 % charge " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( i ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) omit " subject to subsection ( 5 ) below and section 97 and 97a below , " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( b ) omit " or issue " ; ( c ) after that subsection insert — " ( 1A ) the follow provision contain exception to the charge to stamp duty reserve tax under this section — ( a ) subsection ( 5 ) of this section ( exception so far as stamp duty be chargeable ) ; ( b ) section 97 ( general exception ) ; ( c ) section 97za ( exception for replacement security ) ; ( d ) section 97a ( election for alternative system of charge ) ; ( e ) section 97ab ( exempt capital - raise transfer ) ; ( f ) section 97ac ( exempt list transfer ) ; ( g ) section 97ad ( exception for transfer of share hold by issue company ) ; ( h ) section 97b ( transfer between depositary receipt system and clearance system ) . " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 2 ) omit paragraph ( a ) ; ( e ) omit subsection ( 8 ) . ( 10 ) section 97 ( clearance service : exception ) be amend as follow — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , in the word after paragraph ( b ) omit " subject to section 97c , " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) omit " or issue " ; ( c ) omit subsection ( 4 ) to ( 6 ) . ( 11 ) section 97aa ( clearance service : further exception ) be renumbere section 97za . ( 12 ) in that section — ( a ) in the heading , for " further exception " substitute " exception for replacement security " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) omit " or issue " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( i ) in paragraph ( a ) , in the word before sub - paragraph ( i ) omit " or issue " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( b ) omit " or ( 4 ) " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 4 ) , in paragraph ( a ) omit " or issue " . ( 13 ) section 97a ( clearance service : election for alternative system of charge ) be amend as follow — ( a ) in subsection ( 3 ) , in paragraph ( a ) omit " or issue " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 4 ) , in both place omit " , issue " . ( 14 ) after section 97a insert — " depositary receipt and clearance service : farther exception 97ab exempt capital - raise transfer ( 1 ) there be to be no charge to tax under section 93 or 96 in respect of an exempt capital - raise transfer . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , a transfer of chargeable security be an " exempt capital - raise transfer " if the transfer be in the course of capital - raise arrangement . ( 3 ) in this section , " capital - raise arrangement " mean arrangement pursuant to which chargeable security be issue by a company for the purpose of raise new capital . ( 4 ) a transfer of chargeable security be not prevent from be an exempt capital - raise transfer by reason only of a delay in transfer the chargeable security where — ( a ) a person ( " the transferor " ) acquire the chargeable security — ( i ) before capital - raise arrangement be enter into , or ( ii ) in the course of capital - raise arrangement , ( b ) the transferor be subject to a restriction that have the effect of prevent the transfer of the chargeable security in the course of the capital - raise arrangement , and ( c ) the transfer be make as soon as reasonably practicable after the time at which the restriction cease to have effect . 97AC exempt list transfer ( 1 ) there be to be no charge to tax under section 93 or 96 in respect of an exempt list transfer . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , a transfer of chargeable security issue by a company be an " exempt list transfer " if — ( a ) it be a transfer in the course of qualifying list arrangement , and ( b ) those arrangement do not affect the beneficial ownership of the chargeable security . ( 3 ) in this section , " list arrangement " mean arrangement pursuant to which chargeable security , or depositary receipt for chargeable security , be list on a recognise stock exchange . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , list arrangement be " qualify " if , immediately before the first transfer of chargeable security in the course of the list arrangement , no chargeable security in the company or depositary receipt for chargeable security in the company be list on the recognise stock exchange to which the list arrangement relate . ( 5 ) a transfer of chargeable security be not prevent from be an exempt list transfer by reason only of a delay in transfer the chargeable security where — ( a ) a person ( " the transferor " ) acquire the chargeable security before qualify list arrangement be enter into , ( b ) the transferor be subject to a restriction that have the effect of prevent the transfer of the chargeable security in the course of the qualifying list arrangement , and ( c ) the transfer be make as soon as reasonably practicable after the time at which the restriction cease to have effect . ( 6 ) Section 1005 of the Income Tax Act 2007 ( meaning of " recognise stock exchange " , " list " etc ) apply in relation to this section as it apply in relation to the Income Tax act . 97ad exception for transfer of share hold by issue company there be to be no charge to tax under section 93 or 96 in respect of a transfer of share in a company which be hold by the company ( whether in accordance with section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 ( treasury share ) or otherwise . " ( 15 ) in section 97b ( transfer between depositary receipt system and clearance system ) omit subsection ( 1A ) . ( 16 ) omit section 97c ( transfer to non - EU depositary receipt and clearance service system ) . ( 17 ) in section 99 ( interpretation ) , in subsection ( 10 ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " 97aa " substitute " 97ZA " . commencement and transitional provision ( 18 ) the amendment make by this resolution have effect in relation to — ( a ) agreement to transfer chargeable security make on or after 1 January 2024 ; ( b ) the transfer or issue of chargeable security on or after that day . ( 19 ) paragraph ( 20 ) apply in relation to UK bearer instrument within the meaning of section 99 ( 1A ) of the Finance Act 1986 issue before 1 January 2024 . ( 20 ) the amendment make by paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) be to be disregard . ( 21 ) paragraph ( 22 ) apply for the purpose of section 95a of the Finance Act 1986 ( depositary receipt : exception for replacement security ) where the security mention in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) of that section be issue before 1 January 2024 . ( 22 ) the amendment make by paragraph ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 7 ) be to be disregard . ( 23 ) paragraph ( 24 ) apply for the purpose of section 97za of the Finance Act 1986 ( clearance service : exception for replacement security ) where the security mention in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) of that section be issue before 1 January 2024 . ( 24 ) the amendment make by paragraph ( 8 ) , ( 9 ) , ( 11 ) and ( 12 ) be to be disregard . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 22 . Pillar two Resolved , that provision may be make — ( a ) for the purpose of ensure that change ( or anticipate change ) to the Pillar two rule ( within the meaning of Part 3 of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 ) be take into account in the provision make by part 3 and 4 of that Act and otherwise in connection with ensure the consistency of those Parts with those rule , and ( b ) about the treatment under those Parts of company and other entity carry on activity in connection with securitisation or risk associate with insurance . 23 . rate of vehicle excise duty ( passenger or light good vehicle , motorcycle etc ) resolve , that provision may be make increase the rate of vehicle excise duty in Parts 1 to 2 of schedule 1 to the Vehicle Excise and Registration Act 1994 . 24 . rate of air passenger duty Resolved , that provision may be make increase the rate of air passenger duty . 25 . hydrocarbon oil duty ( rebate on oil use for heating premise ) resolve , that provision may be make for rebate on oil when use in machine or appliance for heating premise . 26 . Vehicle excise duty ( exemption for foreign vehicle ) resolve , that provision may be make confer a power on the Secretary of State to make provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) for vehicle register outside the United Kingdom to be exempt from vehicle excise duty . 27 . interpret vat and excise law Resolved , that — ( 1 ) this Resolution make provision about how — ( a ) the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 ( " EUWA 2018 " ) , and ( b ) the amendment make to that Act by the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 ( " reula 2023 " ) , be to apply for the purpose of interpret enactment relate to value add tax or any duty of excise ( " vat and excise law " ) . ( 2 ) section 4 of EUWA 2018 ( retain EU right , power , liability etc ) continue to have effect ( despite the provision make by section 2 of reula 2023 ) for the purpose of interpret vat and excise law subject to the follow exception . ( 3 ) the exception be that Articles 110 and 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ( which relate to internal taxation on product ) have no effect for that purpose . ( 4 ) section 5 ( A1 ) to ( A3 ) of EUWA 2018 ( which be insert by section 3 of reula 2023 and which abolish the supremacy of EU law ) have effect in relation to vat and excise law as they have effect in relation to other domestic enactment but only so far as they relate to the disapplication or quashing of any enactment as a result of EU law ( and , accordingly , the supersede provision continue to have effect for the purpose of interpret vat and excise law ) . ( 5 ) retain general principle of EU law — ( a ) continue to be relevant ( despite the provision make by section 4 of reula 2023 ) for the purpose of interpret vat and excise law in the same way , and to the same extent , as they be relevant for that purpose before the come into force of that section , but ( b ) otherwise have effect for that purpose subject to the provision make by that Act ( include , in particular , the amendment make by section 6 of that Act ( role of court ) ) . ( 6 ) in this resolution — ( a ) the reference to any duty of excise be to be read in accordance with section 49 of the Taxation ( Cross - border Trade ) Act 2018 , ( b ) the reference to the supersede provision be a reference to section 5 ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) of EUWA 2018 as those subsection have effect immediately before the passing of reula 2023 , and ( c ) the reference to retain general principle of EU law be to be read in accordance with EUWA 2018 as that Act have effect immediately before the passing of reula 2023 . ( 7 ) this Resolution need to be read with section 42 and 47 of the Taxation ( Cross - border Trade ) Act 2018 ( which make other provision about EU law relate to vat and excise law and which continue to have effect for the purpose mention in paragraph ( 1 ) above ) . ( 8 ) this Resolution come into force on 1 January 2024 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 28 . rate of landfill tax Resolved , that provision may be make increase the rate of landfill tax . 29 . rate of aggregate levy Resolved , that provision may be make increase the rate of aggregate levy . 30 . rate of plastic packaging tax Resolved , that provision may be make increase the rate of plastic packaging tax . 31 . increase maximum term of imprisonment for tax offence resolve , that provision may be make increase the maximum term of imprisonment for any offence under — ( a ) section 106a of the Taxes Management Act 1970 ( fraudulent evasion of income tax ) , ( b ) section 72 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 ( fraudulent evasion etc of vat ) , ( c ) any provision of the custom and excise act ( within the meaning of the Customs and Excise Management Act 1979 ) , or ( d ) any other enactment relate to tax . 32 . promoter of tax avoidance ( order disqualify company director etc ) resolve , that provision may be make for officer of Revenue and Customs to apply for order under the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986 in connection with the promotion of scheme and other arrangement involve tax avoidance . 33 . promoter of tax avoidance ( stop notice ) resolve , that provision may be make for case in which a failure to comply with section 236b of the Finance Act 2014 constitute a criminal offence . 34 . construction industry scheme Resolved , that provision may be make about the condition for , and the ground for cancel , gross payment status under the construction industry scheme . 35 . tax return ( information ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make take effect in a future year about — ( a ) the information to be provide in return under the Taxes Management Act 1970 , and ( b ) the information to be provide by employer in accordance with paye regulation . 36 . commencement of provision relate to penalty resolve , that provision may be make about the commencement of Schedules 24 to 27 to the Finance Act 2021 . 37 . incidental or consequential provision resolve , that provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make which be incidental to , or consequential on , provision authorise by any other Resolution . Finance Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . resolve , that , for the purpose of any Act of the present Session relate to finance , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of — ( a ) any expenditure incur by the Commissioners for his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs in respect of credit to company in respect of expenditure on research and development , and ( b ) any expenditure incur by the Commissioners for his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs in respect of credit to company in respect of expenditure on the production of film , television programme or video game . order , that a Bill be bring in upon the foregoing resolution ; that the Chairman of Ways and Means , the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Laura Trott , Bim Afolami , Gareth Davies and Nigel Huddleston bring in the Bill . Finance Bill Presentation and First read Nigel Huddleston accordingly present a Bill to make provision in connection with finance . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 14 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 14 - EN ) . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , we shall take motion 2 to 4 together . Retained EU Law Reform Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Design right , Artist ' s Resale Right and Copyright ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . that the draft Intellectual Property ( Exhaustion of Rights ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . that the draft Public Service Obligations in Transport Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Energy that the draft Green Gas Support Scheme ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Public Health that the draft Health Protection ( Coronavirus , Testing Requirements and Standards ) ( England ) ( Amendment and Transitional Provision ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . business of the House Ordered , that notice of amendment , new Clauses and new schedule to be move in Committee in respect of the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Bill may be accept by the Clerks at the table before it have be read a second time . — ( Aaron Bell . ) Backbench Business Ordered , that Bob Blackman , Kevin Foster , Patricia Gibson , Chris Green , Nigel Mills , Wendy Morton and Kate Osborne be add to the Backbench Business Committee . — ( Rebecca Harris , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Home Affairs order , that Paula Barker be discharge from the Home Affairs Committee and Kim Johnson be add . — ( Rebecca Harris , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) woman and Equalities Ordered , that Mark Jenkinson be discharge from the Women and Equalities Committee and Dr Lisa Cameron be add . — ( Rebecca Harris , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Post Office Services : Edinburgh West Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) the subject of the debate be post office service in Edinburgh West . although it be about my constituency , the problem could just as easily apply to many constituency throughout the country . indeed , I have not speak to a single member who have not say that their constituency face the same problem with post office closure as we face in Edinburgh West . when I be think about the debate , I wonder what the answer might be if I ask any of the child in my constituency what a post office be and what they use it for . I also think they might look at I with astonishment if I tell they that what they now regard as part of the local shop be once the organisation that provide everything from our telephone service at home , our mail and all sort of government form , to pension and stamp . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this matter forward . last week , the parliamentary group of the Democratic Unionist party meet the Northern Ireland sub - postmaster association . every one of those issue that she mention be discuss with we . we be tell that those opportunity be no long available in the post office , by which I mean mot , car tax renewal , and passport renewal . the post office be also use as a community hub . all of those thing highlight how important post office be . I know that the hon . Lady have say all of that , so I hope that , in his response , the Minister can give we some succour and respite in relation to what the post office can and should do . the hon . Member make a very good point . these be all vital service . not so very long ago , post office be central to community up and down the country . they also provide some of the most spectacular example of architecture , and they dominate our town centre . the local post office be where I apply for my first drive licence . I open my first saving account there and queue for what seem like hour every Christmas to make sure that the family ' s card and present go off safely to various part of Australia and Canada — but not any more . the Post Office I grow up with in the 1960s have 25 , 000 branch . in 2021 , that figure have more than halve to 11 , 415 , with more than half of those list as vulnerable . the organisation itself lose £ 597 million in the same year . in Scotland we have the big problem in the UK , have lose more than 6 % of our post office in the past two year alone . in Edinburgh West , two have close and one have be relocate to a different area in the past year . as I say early , this problem be not isolate to Scotland or to Edinburgh West . one third of rural post office be now offer as part - time outreach service . the hon . Lady make an excellent point . this be a truly national problem , which unfortunately affect the whole of the UK . indeed , there be also a related problem of postal delivery not appear on time , which be have a huge effect on many resident . I have have closure of post office in my constituency in Reading and Woodley , and also severe problem with resident not get post on time , lead to people miss out on pay their bill and many other thing . that be a good point . the national service be be undermine . as the hon . Member mention , delivery be not be make . moreover , one third of rural post office be now only part - time outreach service , open for an average of five and a half hour . it be not the service that we know for many year and that community be entitle to expect . the irony of all this be that the Post Office still generate around £ 5 billion for the economy every year . in constituency such as mine , which have lose 70 % of its bank branch since 2015 , we increasingly rely on the post office for banking service and so much more . I would like to share with my hon . friend a short quote from a letter that a constituent of mine write to I about the reduction of Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency and other Government service at post office branch . he say : " have work for the Insolvency Service , I be aware that there be many people who do not have bank account , be well able to manage their affair use cash , or need the reassurance of a face - to - face transaction to avoid get into difficulty . " do she agree with my constituent ? I most certainly do agree with my hon . friend ' s constituent . Citizens Advice tell we that almost 20 % of people still visit their post office weekly for one of the service that he mention . that increase to 23 % of those in rural area , 27 % of carer , 22 % of over - 65 and 21 % of disabled people , so there be a need in our community . on the DVLA service that my hon . Friend mention , the contract with the Post Office end in March next year . currently , the Post Office handle more than 6 million dvla transaction annually , which contribute £ 3 . 2 million per year to postmaster remuneration . People rely on their post office for all these service , yet we be see they fail because they do not have the support that they need from the Government . it be not worth their while ; the postmaster who be close in my constituency tell I that they do not have the support that they need . if we be to save what be once rightly claim to be the front desk of Government in our community from become an adjunct slot into shop that be willing to put up with it , we need something to be do quickly . we have all hear the point about post office be the front desk of Government , but at the same time we be tell that Government service will be digital by default . be not the root cause of the problem the lack of strategy that would stem from a coherent Government position ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right : there be no coherence to the Government ' s position . Digital service do not work for everybody . not everybody want they . as with so many of our public service — bus , train , the NHS and water — we need a recognition that this issue need action now . it need investment , and well support for those who supply the service . the reality be that some people will not be able to lead their life as they would wish without the service that our post office have traditionally offer , which be be undermine . Most do not want to ; they enjoy the comfort of have a post office . they enjoy be able to pop in , particularly in rural community , and buy their stamp , or collect their pension . this week , I be at my office in Edinburgh West . a gentleman stop I in the street and ask I , ironically , whether I know where the near post office be . fortunately , I do . he have an a4 envelope in his hand . he say , " I need to get a stamp and post this , and I can ' t find one , " so I direct he along the road . a post office be a simple thing , but they be vital to community up and down the country . if the Minister , or the Prime Minister , have any doubt I would be more than happy to take they to a post office in Edinburgh West and introduce they to the many people who use the service that be still available — but I would quite like to do it while I still can , and while they be still there . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairmanship , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) on secure this debate . she be right to say how highly value post office be to our community , and to speak up for they in this debate . I promise she that I fully support her perspective , represent a rural constituency myself . the network of roughly 11 , 500 branch around the UK that the hon . member refer to be the large retail network in the country . as she point out , a recent London Economics report point out how post office not only have economic value in term of the use of the post office itself — she refer to a gentleman with an envelope look for a post office for a stamp — but benefit other local shop , caf é s and other business on our high street . the knock - on effect add up to around £ 3 . 1 billion a year , accord to that report , so we be fully aware of the importance of post office to community and to the economy . I be very keen , and I have be since I take over as Minister for postal affair about a year ago , among other duty relate to my brief , to challenge the Post Office to make sure that it be do the right thing by postmaster . the hon . Lady quite rightly point to the level of remuneration that postmaster get . we have to get that right to make the whole network sustainable . I gently point out to she that the Post Office be a commercial business , so it be not something that I direct on a day - to - day basis , but I be keen to take forward challenge on behalf of Members on both side of the House . the hon . Lady be aware of the network criterion that 99 % of the population must live within three mile of their near branch and that — this be relevant to her constituency — 95 % of the total urban population must live within one mile of their near outlet . the network actually be not in decline — more post office open than close over the course of the past year — but we see fluctuation , and it be regrettable that Edinburgh West have see closure in recent month . I know that be very disappointing for she and her constituent ; we know how important the post office be for those community . of course many postmaster be run franchise business in their own right , and many of the challenge that postmaster face be face by many high street business . consumer habit be change the dynamic and the viability of some postmaster ’ business , and we need to find way to make sure that they can run viable business that pay they fair remuneration for their work . the hon . Lady and other hon . member mention relationship such as that with the DVLA . that have be extend until the end of March next year . we want to see a long - term deal than that , but that be a negotiation between relevant Government agency and Post Office Ltd . it be the case that consumer habit be drive down remuneration , and I do not think it be for we to dictate to our citizen how they should access service . increasingly — I be sure the hon . Lady and other member have do this — we access service such as passport or drive licence renewal online . that be much more convenient for many people , and it be drive down remuneration significantly . only a few year ago , some of those Government service be contribute about £ 500 million annually to the post office network . that be down to a few ten of million of pound now , again because of consumer habit , but we be keen to try to make sure that there be other opportunity for postmaster . the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) refer to elderly people and those who be isolate in the community and do not have access to online service . those be the people who tell I they need their post office . there be many of they . I think the Minister would probably agree that there be a duty on the Government to try to encourage the renewal of those contract come next March , and to ensure that the people we represent be look after . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I say that both as a Member of Parliament serve a rural area and as postal affair Minister . we want to make sure that every citizen of this entire nation be serve properly . post office do an important job in that . we need to make sure that post office be there , not just due to Government support , but because people use they . there be some thing that we be work hard on to try to make sure that the level of remuneration , which lie at the heart of this debate , be improve . as the hon . member for Edinburgh West be aware , Duart Crescent and Blackhall post office have both unfortunately close in recent month , due to their respective postmaster choose to resign ; they be not close by the Post Office . the Post Office be advertise those opportunity to local retailer to try to reinstate service . on the Minister ' s point about Duart Crescent , yes , the postmaster resign , but it be prove impossible to get a replacement there and in Blackhall , because the remuneration do not encourage they . perhaps he will bear in mind another important point : we be all buy thing online , and consumer be drive that change , but Royal Mail deliver a lot of they and we often go to the post office to return or collect they . the hon . Lady make an important point , and I will come to those comment shortly . remuneration have to be part of the solution . Barnton post office and Davidson ' s Mains post office be both under a mile away respectively from the previous outlet at Duart Crescent and Blackhall , so there be post office service , and I understand that there be public transport route to those service , although I have not be myself . the Government understand the disruption that the two recent closure will no doubt have cause . in October , Broomhall Drive post office open , follow a local consultation exercise in line with Post Office ' s principle of community engagement , after the temporary closure of the St John ' s Road post office . let I turn to future opportunity . post office banking service be really important — again , they be important to remuneration — and there have be some issue with deposit limit . the Economic Secretary to the Treasury and I have apply a certain amount of pressure to bank and UK Finance to ensure that that situation be resolve , and it have improve to an extent , which be good news . we have also legislate , through the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , for access to cash , which be really important . the Financial Conduct Authority be require to ensure that people have access to cash . I thank the Minister for give way again . do he agree that , when the contract be up shortly , a long contract , to ensure stability for post office with the bank , and the creation of more hub that involve post office , will be essential ? absolutely . this be a real opportunity for the network , and not just for a long - term contract for more stability . it have the banking framework , which form its relationship with the bank . the bank have make around £ 2 . 5 billion of cost saving through the closure of branch . we think that a great share of those saving should be provide to the post office network to improve remuneration and invest in productivity tool for postmaster , such as cash - count machine , so that the job of run a post office be more lucrative . we see that as a big opportunity . in the banking framework , we have be clear with UK Finance and Post Office that they should be ambitious in negotiation and secure extra remuneration for the network . there be some improvement to remuneration in April , but I be aware , as I speak to postmaster all the time , that those improvement have not go far enough in their view . I work closely with the National Federation of SubPostmasters , and we hear these view all the time , so we be very alive to the difficulty . the other big opportunity that the hon . Lady imply be in the increase number of parcel couriere around our country . there have be an exciting development in the parcel market for the Post Office , which have just launch something call Parcels Online . for the first time , Post Office will offer a multi - carrier in - branch proposition : because the exclusive agreement with Royal Mail have end , a customer can go into a post office and use the service of DPD , Evri and other , which be be sell by postmaster . that be a great opportunity for postmaster and may well lift their revenue . that be the kind of future we see for post office : provide access to cash and banking service — and get pay well and more lucratively to do so — and offer parcel hub opportunity . those be both really important service . the hon . Lady mention banking hub . that be a slight bone of contention , in my view . at the moment , they have not really be co - locate with post office , and I would like to explore with UK Finance more opportunity for co - location where space allow . it make little sense to have two different unit on the high street when we could have one really sustainable unit . that be something we be look at too . on what the Government can do through direct support , we have provide more than £ 2 . 5 billion over the past 10 year and will provide £ 335 million between 2022 and 2025 . we have also provide around £ 50 million through the annual network subsidy for rural post office , as well as other measure we provide to the general business community , such as rate support worth £ 13 . 6 billion . another £ 4 . 3 billion be announce in the autumn statement . would the Minister reassure I on the interoperability of post office system with those belong to building society ? we have talk about that before , give some of the difficulty with access cash in my constituency . will he also pass on my concern and those of colleague to Royal Mail about the lack of cover for postal staff when they be off sick ? that appear to be drive some of the problem with delivery . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to highlight those issue . through the work that the Economic Secretary to the Treasury and I have do with UK Finance , more clarity have be give to postmaster about the limit for certain bank that have particular problem . the feedback I have get from postmaster be that the situation have improve , but I be very happy to hear feedback from member of the House , include the hon . Gentleman , if that be not the case . of course , Royal Mail and the Post Office be two different thing . Royal Mail have recently be fine for its underperformance . it have be affect by many different issue , include , of course , industrial action ; it have have its share of issue this year . hopefully it be put those issue behind it , but we certainly expect to see a much well performance from Royal Mail go forward . like all retailer , post office be face very significant challenge at the moment . we have be clear about their value , both socially and economically — for our community and for our economy . we will continue to work with the Post Office to ensure that both the organisation itself and the network be sustainable and fit for the future . we very much appreciate the work that the hon . member for Edinburgh West do in this area ; she quite rightly challenge I all the time on this . we be very much on the same page when it come to make sure we have a viable network around the country , not least in our rural area . question put and agree to . House adjourn .