business before Questions Committee of Selection Ordered , that Tom Morrison be discharge from the Committee of Selection and Charlie Maynard be add . — ( Mark Tami . ) Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Servicing Government Debt what the annual cost to the public purse be of a 0 . 1 % increase in the cost of service Government debt . what assessment she have make of the implication for her policy of recent trend in the level of interest on Government debt . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on level of debt interest spending . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on level of debt interest spending . when we enter office , debt be at high not see since the 1960 . my commitment to the fiscal rule be non - negotiable , and we will drive debt down to a sustainable level . there have be movement in global financial market , and the UK be not immune . the Office for Budget Responsibility will produce a forecast in the usual way , and I will respond with a statement to Parliament on 26 March . I will not be give a running commentary on that forecast . Labour come to office promise to kick - start growth . instead , it have kick growth into the gutter . over the last few month we have see some of the slow growth in the G7 — in the actual figure rather than the projection . where will the money for the public sector and public service come from with zero economic growth ? yesterday ' s PwC report show that the UK be the second most attractive place in the world to invest for global ceo — it be the first time in 28 year that we have be in that position in the league table . and the International Monetary Fund forecast on Friday that the UK will be the fast - grow major economy in Europe next year . last time I raise the market ' concern about debt with the Chancellor , she tell I to " get real . " what be real be that the cost of debt interest be over £ 10 billion . what be real be the three choice she have : to increase taxis on people and business in Earl Shilton , Burbage and across the country ; to cut service for people in Hinckley , Donisthorpe and across the country ; or to borrow on the country ' s credit card . will she now be real with the public and tell they which of the three it be go to be ? we inherit a high amount of debt from the previous Government , and we have to pay interest cost on that debt . the forecast I set out in the Budget in October show that debt fall to a sustainable level . as I say , the OBR forecast will be publish on 26 March , and I will make a statement at that time . the Chancellor ' s increase demand for Government borrowing drive up its price and crowd out investment by productive private enterprise , doesn ' t it ? [ hon . member : " no . " ] let I have a go . there have undoubtedly be move in global financial market this year , and the UK be not immune to those movement . the OBR have not yet start its forecast . it will update that in due course , and I will make a statement on 26 March . since come to office , the Chancellor have increase taxis by £ 40 billion and borrowing by £ 30 billion and her Employment Rights Bill have increase the cost of employer by a furth £ 5 billion . do she accept that her decision have lead to a loss of confidence in the british economy and an increase in our borrowing cost ? I do not think the borrowing cost in every major country in the world can be explain by the decision make by this Government . as I say to the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) last week , the hon . Gentleman have to get real . there have be global movement in financial market that have affect the United Kingdom , but if he look at the PWC report from yesterday , the most recent report on market confidence , global ceo see the UK as the second good place in the world to invest , after the US . the International Monetary Fund forecast that the UK be set to be the fast - grow major economy in Europe , which one would have think Conservative Members would welcome . I know my right hon . friend the Chancellor will not be satisfied until resident in Bracknell , and across the country , feel the benefit of economic improvement in their pay packet and their day - to - day life , so will she set out what more she can do to ensure we tackle the cost of live and fix the economic mess we have inherit from the Conservatives ? after 14 year of stagnant growth and the decline in living standard during the last Parliament , my hon . friend be absolutely right that we must turn around that performance . that be what this Government be determined to do . the planning and infrastructure Bill will come to Parliament shortly , follow by the pension Bill , which will unlock long - term pension capital and make it easy for business to get thing do in this country . I call the shadow Minister . the Chancellor make reference to the PWC report , but half of the survey in that report be do before the Budget . the Chancellor and I spend a very happy three year sit next to each other at the Treasury Committee , and she be incredibly good at demand straight answer from the witness that come in front of the Committee . she have already be ask question about the fact that the fiscal headroom be only £ 10 billion and the increase in the cost of borrowing be now go to go through the roof so , at some point , she will have to raise taxis , cut investment or increase debt . which will it be ? the headroom in our Budget be large than the headroom that we inherit from the previous Government , so we have put aside more money for change in economic prospect . the OBR have not yet do its forecast , which will take a whole variety of factor into account , and we will make decision base on that . I have be really clear that our fiscal rule be non - negotiable because , unlike the Conservatives , we be determined to meet the fiscal rule , not break they time and again . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . the rise cost of borrowing will bring more misery to mortgage holder , with report suggest that some mortgage holder could pay an extra £ 500 a year . give that potential global trade tension could far affect the UK ' s financial stability , what assurance will the Government provide that UK lender remain in a strong position to support household and small business ? labour and Liberal Democrat Members be mindful of the last Government ' s impact on mortgage borrowing cost for many of our constituent , and we be determined to tackle the cost of living crisis . as the hon . member know , I have write to financial regulator , include the Financial Conduct Authority , about regulate for growth , not just for risk , so that we can help more people get on the housing ladder and help grow our economy . Official Development Assistance what the fiscal circumstance be that would allow official development assistance to return to 0 . 7 % of gross national income . the Government remain committed to restore ODA spending to 0 . 7 % of GNI as soon as fiscal circumstance allow . the late OBR forecast show that the ODA fiscal test be not due to be meet within this Parliament , but we will continue to monitor future forecast closely and each year we will review and confirm , in accordance with the International Development ( Official Development Assistance Target ) Act 2015 , whether a return to spending at 0 . 7 % of GNI on ODA be possible . I thank the Minister for protect the level of ODA give the fiscal situation we inherit , but there be more war go on in the world than at any time since world war two . will he review the fiscal formula , which he and the Chancellor rightly vote against when put forward by the previous Government , put the ODA budget on a long - term settlement , and meet I to discuss how we can improve UK safety through the ODA budget ? I thank my hon . friend for her question on a topic that I know she have great expertise in . she will know that it be important that spend across Departments , whether on military , humanitarian or economic support , be align with our ODA spending . the multi - year spending review be under way , and we will confirm budget in June for the year ahead . as I have confirm , we will come back to the House every year to review and confirm the fiscal test as they relate to 0 . 7 % of GNI on ODA . give that the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that the fiscal test of return to 0 . 7 % will not be meet in this Parliament , and that there have be no equivalent uplift to the £ 2 . 5 billion that the Conservatives put to spend on in - country refugee cost , be the Minister and this Labour Government content to have preside over a real - term cut to the ODA budget compare with the previous Conservative Government ? one of the issue , to which the hon . Lady allude , be that under the last Administration , when they lose control of the border and the asylum system , the cost of hotel to house asylum seeker wait for their decision be include in the ODA definition of spending . that be why the Home Secretary be work at pace to reduce that backlog as quickly as possible , and we be make much more significant progress than the previous Administration do in many year . to follow on from the Minister ' s answer , member will be remind of the fact that ODA cost spend in the UK be now at record level , thank to the last Government . that should not be the case . ODA should be spend , as much as possible , in the world ' s poor country . what step be the Government take to help the Home Office bring down those cost so that more aid can be spend where it be truly need ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be why both deal with the Home Office backlog in processing claim and return and work with counterpart in the Ministry of Justice to ensure that the tribunal process be up to speed be intrinsically important to the ODA budget . under the last Administration , crucial ODA for bilateral aid in country around the world that be in desperate need of it be cut at short notice because of their mishandling of the asylum system . that will not happen under this Government . I know that member on the Treasury Bench attach great importance to the international development budget , not least because I recall that the Chancellor of the Exchequer support my effort to stop the 0 . 7 % be cut by my own Government , even wind up the debate with great skill and flair . will Treasury Ministers therefore follow in the footstep of the Chancellor ' s predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , and top up the budget with an additional £ 2 . 5 billion so that the Foreign Office and the Government can achieve their own international development objective ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman , as I be sure the Chancellor do , for his kind word . a key part of the test on ODA spending in term of fiscal circumstance require those circumstance to improve . one of the reason we be in this problem in the first place be because of the mess the previous Administration leave this country in . we be work hard to turn that around . I call Helen Maguire . recent flooding in Leatherhead leave footpath near essential service such as train station overfloode — order . it be the question number I need . Minister , you can just answer the question and then we will have the second part . Green Infrastructure Investment what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her fiscal policy of recent trend in level of investment in green infrastructure . too many part of the country and too many family have feel the devastating effect of flooding in recent month , not least in South Wales and in the hon . member ' s constituency . the Government have commit £ 2 . 4 billion over the next two year to increase community flood resilience . everyone in this House recognise that flooding be a challenge that will be with we for year to come , and we will set out further plan at the spending review . right — oh , go on , Bill Esterson . the vote of confidence by PwC , the upgrading of the growth forecast by the International Monetary Fund and the £ 63 billion announce at the growth summit be all indication of this Government ' s successful plan . do the Minister agree that they be add to by the clear direction on green investment in energy project and that that will deliver success for our economy , as well as contribute to our climate target ? we take very seriously the need to protect community from flooding and to deliver on our commitment on climate in the year ahead . it be important that we consider both principle and that be what the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be do . let ' s go back to Helen Maguire . thank you , Mr Speaker . recent flooding in Leatherhead leave footpath near essential service such as train station overfloode with sewage . in Leatherhead , there be no alternative option to divert water . give the importance of long - term flood preparation , will the Chancellor commit to secure funding for flood defence beyond 2025 - 26 ? the hon . Member will know that specific flood defence scheme will be consider in the normal way . when it come to funding beyond 2025 - 26 , those will be decision on overall level of funding that be take in the spending review later this year . order . let we move to Dr Allison Gardner . rise — no , we have Gareth Davies up next . we be in complete chaos — [ Laughter . ] we have the wrong name come in . what have confuse everybody be the fact that question 3 be withdraw . everybody be a question behind . right , I call the shadow Minister next . never in doubt , Mr Speaker . may I welcome the parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , to his place ? the removal of investment allowance from our domestic oil and gas industry be strangle domestic supply at a time when our storage level be deplete . labour ' s ideologically drive , unachievable obsession with decarbonise the grid by 2030 might be good news for chinese renewable manufacturer , but it be bad news for british household . be it not the case that the only growth that we will see from Labour ' s energy policy be in the amount that people pay for their energy bill , or can the Minister stand up now and commit — just as Labour do during the general election campaign — to cut energy bill by £ 300 ? get real ! I think that remark be direct at the hon . member in a previous life . we have commit to 100 % first year allowance and to maintain that go forward , but unless we deliver secure energy , generate at home through cheap renewable , there be no energy security to be have in the year ahead . economic Growth what fiscal step she be take to help increase level of economic growth in rural area . what step she be take to help increase economic growth in Stoke - on - Trent . what step she have take to help increase economic growth in Stoke - on - Trent . what step she have take to help increase economic growth in Derbyshire . what step she have take to help increase economic growth in the north - east . what step she have take to help increase economic growth in North Yorkshire . the Government be well target these relief to make they fair . the late figure for 2021 - 22 show that the top 7 % of claim be count for 40 % of the total value of agricultural property relief . the Chancellor will know that one of the big factor hold back the rural economy be poor public transport . when I visit the jobcentre in Oswestry last year , I be tell that one of the big impediment to people find a job be that they can not get away from where they live because of poor public transport . can she update I on the discussion that she have have with her colleague in the Department for Transport over reinstate project such as the Oswestry to Gobowen railway line and step - free access at Whitchurch railway station ? at the Budget , we introduce sustainable transport settlement , with £ 650 million of funding for local transport , and confirm an extension of the UK share prosperity fund , provide £ 900 million to local authority to invest in local growth . we also announce money in the Budget for some trailblazer project to help those furth from the labour market back into work . on the specific issue around transport in her constituency , I be very happy to set up a meeting for she with the relevant Minister . the A50 / 500 growth corridor , a significant transport corridor in my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent South , enjoy an extraordinary concentration of advanced manufacturing , include anchor company such as JCB and Michelin . with modest target investment in transport , energy and digital infrastructure , this vital corridor could generate £ 12 billion in gross value add and create 18 , 000 job . will the Chancellor meet I to discuss the target investment need to develop a detailed growth plan for this vital industrial artery and help deliver it on this Government ' s mission for growth ? I thank my hon . friend for the work that she have put into this proposal and for her commitment to deliver growth in her constituency of Stoke . on a recent visit , I have the opportunity to meet JCB in the region and see its important work , particularly on the use of hydrogen . I encourage my hon . friend to meet the Minister for Services , Small Businesses and Exports — I be happy to set up that meeting — whose portfolio include local growth . the Government be commit to drive growth in the midland , which be why I confirm fund for the west midland investment zone at the autumn Budget and also confirm an extension of the UK share prosperity fund . I warmly welcome the recent investment of an extra £ 20 million for our bus and an extra £ 11 million to fix our break road across Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire . do the Chancellor agree that continue to invest in our road and public transport be an excellent way to keep our community connect and to increase job opportunity to boost our local economy ? it be great to see two strong advocate for Stoke in the Chamber today . a number of local authority and , indeed , Labour mayor have raise with I bus procurement and the importance of bus for the local economy . I look forward to work with they , particularly David Skaith in York and North Yorkshire and Steve Rotheram in Liverpool , to boost bus service in community , and particularly rural community , to support job in the UK . at the Budget , I allocate more than £ 1 billion for local bus service , and that include £ 712 million for local authority to support and improve bus service in the next financial year . museum make an important contribution to our cultural life , but also to our economy . the Arts Council and the Museums Association find that net expenditure on museum and gallery have decrease by almost 40 % in real term since 2009 . I welcome the Chancellor ' s recognition that the creative industry be key to deliver growth and that national museum be give support in the recent Budget , but what step can the Government take to support regional civic museum , such as Derby museum , which do not benefit from that funding ? the Culture Secretary be pleased that the creative industry be one of the sector include in our industrial strategy . she host an event with member of the creative industry taskforce in Newcastle just last week to emphasise the importance of have good cultural offer and art and museum in local community . I be happy to sort out a meeting for my hon . friend with the relevant Minister to discuss access to the art and culture in Mid Derbyshire . as my right hon . friend know , South Shields be a gorgeous coastal tourist town . we pride ourselves on our small business and our strong hospitality industry , but she will also know they be struggle after year of neglect by the Conservatives . to help those business , will she outline what consideration she have give to reduce vat on our hospitality , leisure and tourism sector ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I remember a very nice dinner of fish and chip with she in her constituency just a few year ago , and she be a strong advocate for local business in South Shields . in the Budget , we be able to extend business rate relief to the retail , hospitality and leisure sector of 40 % for the next financial year and then to move it on to a fair footing , so that high street business and small business pay fair rate of business tax compare with , for example , the online giant . the bus manufacturer Alexander Dennis build innovative electric bus , employ 800 people in Scarborough . the Chancellor have speak about the need for public procurement to take well account of employment and environmental standard . as bus service be bring back into the control of mayor and local authority , will the Government use public procurement to back british company such as Alexander Dennis to boost economic growth ? my hon . friend be a good advocate for business , include Alexander Dennis in Scarborough . the Government will soon publish a new national procurement policy statement , which will set out our priority for public procurement in support of our mission to grow the economy . in addition to the answer I give my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) , we recognise the importance of bus in grow our economy by get people to work , but also the opportunity to use public procurement to buy more bus make in this country , support good job here in Britain . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . former Chair , Mr Speaker , but thank you very much for call I . it be clear that we all want to see economic growth in rural area and across the UK , but I be concerned that some of the measure in the Chancellor ' s Budget be have the opposite effect . which statistic worry she most : the fact that we be at a 20 - year high for business closure , or the 100 % increase in millionaire leave the UK ? I have already outline some of the positive number , include the upgrade in the IMF forecast , the PwC report and the fact that the economy have return to growth in the most recent datum and inflation be fall . instead of talk our country down , I will be bang the drum to bring in investment and job to our country . a new hospital in Eastbourne would help to drive economic growth in my town and across rural Sussex , but year of Tory tumbleweed and , I be afraid , yesterday ' s announcement mean that it will not be deliver and build until 2041 . will the Chancellor accelerate the release of fund to the Department of Health and Social Care to bring forward the building of our new hospital , to support patient in Eastbourne and beyond , and of course to support wide economic growth ? I recognise the strength of feeling about this issue . we be leave a terrible situation by the previous Government , with a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance and the promise of thing for which absolutely no money have be put aside . we have now do the responsible thing by review the programme that we inherit from the previous Government . that mean that the timetable for some project have have to be push back , but it be because the previous Government make promise know that the cheque would bounce . business in my constituency and across the country be still reel from the Chancellor ' s damage Budget . she make a commitment at the Confederation of British Industry conference that she would not come back for more taxis . do she stand by that commitment ? I have to do a once - in - a - generation Budget in October to fix the mess in the public finance leave by the previous Government . I will never have to do a Budget like that again because we have now fix that terrible inheritance . devastating change to inheritance tax , increase environmental cost because of net zero policy , and diversion of farming support to foreign country — with those kind of policy , how do the Chancellor ever expect to generate economic growth in rural area ? bring stability back to our economy by fix the public finance be the no . 1 thing we can do to help business to grow , alongside our planning reform to make it easy to build thing in Britain and our reform to the pension system to help business access long - term patient capital . as for agricultural property relief , the late figure show that the top 7 % of claim — 117 claim — account for 40 % of the total value of the relief , cost the taxpayer £ 219 million . we can not afford to carry on like that , which be why we make those progressive and fair reform in the Budget . I call the shadow Minister . farming ' s vital role in grow our rural economy , grow our food and protect the countryside be threaten by Labour ' s family farm tax . the self - proclaim " iron Chancellor " be prove herself to be the tin - eare Chancellor , ignore evidence from the National Farmers Union and other show that the tax be base on flawed assumption . ahead of Saturday ' s farming day of unity , rather than threaten family farm , will she speak to farmer , think again and withdraw those damaging proposal ? the problem with the Conservatives be that they support increase spending in vital area but they have not support any of the tax increase necessary to pay for they , which , frankly , be why we be in the situation we be in today , have inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . the hon . Gentleman will know that in the Budget we announce £ 5 billion for the farming budget over two year — include the large funding direct at sustainable food production and nature recovery in this country ' s history — and £ 60 million to support farmer affect by flooding . high - emission Steel what step she plan to take to help protect the steel industry from high - emission steel be divert away from the EU to the UK follow confirmation of the UK carbon border adjustment mechanism for 2027 . the UK carbon border adjustment mechanism will be introduce in 2027 . it will ensure that import face a carbon price that be comparable with domestic product , give UK industry the confidence to invest without its decarbonisation effort be undermine . UK steel producer will continue to benefit from high level of free allowance in the UK emission trading system until at least the end of 2026 , protect they against carbon leakage via high - emission import . Newby Foundries and Alucast in my constituency of Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley have raise with I the impact of the UK CBAM come into effect later than , and differ from , the EU CBAM . this could threaten domestic steel production and make the export of metal product to the EU more difficult . can the Minister please support the UK ' s steel and metal finishing industry by reassure I that the UK CBAM will not be weak than the EU CBAM , and will he meet I and other steel mp to discuss this ? as I have set out , the UK CBAM will mitigate the risk of carbon leakage by place a carbon price on some of the most emission - intensive industrial good import into the UK , include in the iron and steel sector . the UK CBAM be design for the UK context , and in some area , its emission scope be wide than the EU cbam — in respect of indirect emission , for instance . the first CBAM industry working group be hold early this week , and I understand that a representative of the UK steel sector attend . I will make sure that my official continue to engage with the industry sector most affected , and I be very happy to discuss this far with my hon . friend . heavy industry , whether it be steel , ceramic or so many other area , be totally dependent on low energy cost . the trajectory be that energy cost be rise , especially in industry , whether as a result of regulation or world market . many other country be do more to protect their heavy industry by make sure they can have low input cost for energy . what more can the Minister do to protect our heavy industry in the future ? the no . 1 thing for industry and household be to bring down the cost of energy . that be why we be invest in renewable home - grow energy for the future , to make sure we have energy independence , energy security and , crucially , low bill for those household and business . Money Laundering in Retail Businesses what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her regulatory policy of recent trend in level of money laundering in retail business . this Government be commit to tackle money laundering . money laundering through cash - base high street business be a known issue , and the Treasury work closely with law enforcement agency to monitor trend in criminality and ensure resource be deploy towards the most significant threat . hard - work shopkeeper and entrepreneur across the country , include in Bromsgrove and the village , play by the rule and pay their taxis . what be the estimate loss of revenue to the Exchequer from money laundering in retail environment in town and village across the country , and what be the Government do to crack down on this ? it be right that we take a robust approach to money laundering , and we have a tailored approach to cash deposit limit to reflect the difference in need and risk profile across business ' customer basis . I be committed to work with the Financial Conduct Authority and other to ensure we strike the right balance — one that allow business to continue their operation but also ensure that we assess the risk pose by those who might be use their business to launder money . what additional support can the Government offer to Customs and Excise , local authority and police force in gathering support evidence that can then be provide to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs ? high street money launderer be brazen front for significant criminal enterprise . we take this issue very seriously . the Treasury own the money laundering regulation , but the FCA have a key role as a major supervisor , and we work very closely with the criminal enforcement agency . of course , those agency be independent , but we be absolutely committed to clamp down on money laundering . former Mineworkers ' pension what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to uplift former mineworker ' pension . what step she have take with Cabinet colleague to uplift former mineworker ' pension . this Government recognise the contribution that miner make to the prosperity of the nation and the challenging circumstance in which they work . that be why the Government agree to transfer the investment reserve fund to member of the mineworker ' pension scheme , so that the mineworker who power our country receive a fairer pension . do my right hon . friend agree that end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme be great news not only for the 849 former mineworker in my constituency who will benefit , but for the economy of the local community where they live , which be leave behind by the previous Government ? will he and his colleague in government continue to engage with the trustee of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme to ensure that , in the same way , the fund build up in that scheme be use for the benefit of its member ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and his work on behalf of his constituent . he may know that , in the previous Parliament , I and colleague work on the mineworker ' pension scheme through the Business and Trade Committee to lay the ground for the initiative that this Government be quickly able to implement on come into government . unfortunately , that work have not yet be do for the British Coal staff superannuation scheme , which be why Ministers be meet the scheme ' s trustee to consider the option . this be an important issue for south Wales family . my uncle Jacky be a deputy at Cwm Marine pit and my uncle Georgie be a deputy at Oakdale . sadly , they have now pass , but they be member of the British Coal pension scheme . many of their mining friend will be in their 80 and 90 , and their pension deserve uplift , so will the Minister please commit to make good progress here ? time be run out for the man and woman who fire our industrial past . I thank my hon . friend for raise that question on an issue that I know be deeply important to he , his constituent and his family , and on which he have work for many year . the Government be actively consider proposal from the scheme ' s trustee , and we will set out the next step in due course . my hon . friend the Minister for Industry in the Department for Business and Trade will be work on the detail , and I will be meet she shortly to consider the option . I have significant former mining area in the Douglas valley and Upper Nithsdale in my constituency . constituent there be concerned about the British Coal scheme , because many people in that scheme actually work underground before be promote into other job . to ensure fairness in the implementation of this Government policy , will the Minister make sure that the timescale on which they be compensate be the same as that for those in the other scheme ? I thank the right hon . member for his question , and I think " fairness " be the right word . that be why we work in opposition to try to persuade the last government to act on the mineworker ' pension scheme , but we fail because the last Government do not think this be an urgent issue for they to consider . the Labour Government have implement this change at our first Budget , and that be fairness in action . we will continue to work with trustee of the BCSSS , and we will come back with further option in due course . let we go to the Member for that well - know mining area of Strangford . Mr Speaker , I speak to the Minister beforehand , so he know where I be come from with my question . I understand that some family of those affect who have pass away have retire to Northern Ireland , and they deserve their pension . that be the case , have the right hon . Gentleman have an opportunity to ascertain the number of those in Northern Ireland who will qualify for such pension , and will he chase up those people to ensure they get the money they deserve ? I thank the hon . member for his question . I be afraid I have not have time to do so since he tell I 35 minute ago that he be go to ask that question , but I have hear it clearly . I will take that away and come back to he in course . support sme , Retail , and Hospitality and Tourism what step she be take through the tax system to support sme . what step she be take through the tax system to support the retail sector . what step she be take through the tax system to support the hospitality and tourism sector . the Government announce a range of measure at the autumn Budget to support sme , include in the retail , hospitality and leisure sector . they include more than double the employment allowance , freeze the small business rate multiplier , extend RHL relief to 40 % , maintain the small profit rate and reduce the duty on qualify draught product , which represent 60 % of alcoholic drink sell in pub . the labour manifesto commit to replace the business rate system . however , last week at the Treasury Committee , the Minister seem to rule out the kind of comprehensive reform that the Liberal Democrats and other have be campaign for , and indicate that there might only be a tinkering around the edge of rate and relief . can the Minister confirm today whether the Government still intend to replace the business rate system , or will they just be tinker around the edge of this break system ? I think that retail , hospitality and leisure business , which be the backbone of our high street , might object to the idea of permanently low tax rate as " tinker around the edge " . that be a fundamental change that we want to bring in from April 2026 to make sure they have stability , certainty and permanently low rate . alongside it be our wide ambition in the " Transforming Business Rates " discussion paper , which I invite the hon . gentleman to read and respond to at last week ' s Treasury Committee . I draw member ' attention to my declaration in the register of interest . Retail be an important part of the economy in my constituency , which include many wonderful independent business . will , who run the excellent Wandering Palate in Monton , write to I about the challenge he be face . will the Minister outline the measure the Government be take to support small business owner like will in my constituency and across the country to enable our high street to thrive ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for reference wonderful Palate , the business in his constituency . I do not know the detail of the rateable value of that property , but I point the owner to the fact that we be retain small business rate relief , freeze the small business multipli next year and extend the retail , hospitality and leisure relief in 2025 - 26 . I also point the owner of that business and other business to our future plan , as I mention , to have permanently low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure business with value of below £ 500 , 000 , as well as to consider reform to small business rate relief to well support business that want to expand into a second premise . what consideration have minister give to exempt the seasonal tourism industry from the national insurance hike set to kick in this summer ? that would benefit Paignton zoo and Splashdown in the Torbay constituency . we set out the detail of our decision to increase the rate of national insurance contribution from employer and to reduce the threshold , and we have add the different benefit we will give , particularly to small business and charity , by more than double the employment allowance . the employer national insurance contribution change be among the tough we take in the Budget , but they be necessary to repair the public finance and deliver the economic stability that be so crucial for investment and growth . we have have the former Chair of the Treasury Committee , so let ' s now have the current Chair . my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary rightly say that small and medium - sized enterprise be a vital part of our high street and our economy , and one of the big change be , of course , the change to business rate . he be not tempt at the Select Committee last week to give more detail on the timeframe for that , but many business want certainty about business rate as they go forward . may I tempt he to give an indication of the Government ' s think about how quickly this change might be introduce and whether the small business rate relief be likely to survive or to be subsume into a new regime ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for her question . if she do not succeed in tempt I at the Select Committee , I doubt she will succeed today , but I can reassure she that the decision we have set out about introduce the permanently low business rate for RHL — retail , hospitality and leisure — property below a £ 500 , 000 rateable value will be come in from April 2026 . specifically in relation to small business rate relief , I can confirm that the Government be commit to retain that . one of the option we be look at in our " transform business rate " discussion paper be how to support business that want to expand into a second premise , thereby grow the business , because at the moment there be the cliff edge where they lose small business rate relief . I call the shadow Minister . confidence on Britain ' s high street be slide fast than the Chancellor will be down the ski slope of Davos later today . with retail sale down — rather than up , as expect in the run - up to Christmas — and with the British Retail Consortium say that two third of store will raise price to cover her national insurance increase , when will the Minister accept that the Chancellor ' s economic strategy of raise taxis and increase regulation be not work ? I be glad to know that the shadow Minister ' s morning be well spend cook up that line about the Davos ski slope . what he will know , and what sector across the economy will know , be that have a stable economy be a prerequisite for the investment we need to get the economy grow . that be why we have to take difficult decision at the autumn Budget , include those to increase the rate of employer national insurance contribution . alongside that increase , however , we more than double the employment allowance and set out our plan to have permanently low tax rate for high street RHL property from April 2026 . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . a number of small high street business will be hit hard by the Government ' s job tax and the dramatic reduction in business rate relief , and House of Commons Library research that I commission show that from April 2026 the Government ' s reform to business rate could leave small and independent business in effect subsidise the big chain . will the Chancellor meet I and a delegation of small and independent business from St Albans so that we can make the case for fair reform and for wholesale reform of the break business rate system ? one of the problem with the Liberal Democrats be that they support all our spending plan , but they do not support any of the tax change to fund they . this be a prime example . when we talk about increase employer national insurance contribution , we acknowledge that that be one of the tough decision we take at the Budget , but it be necessary to fix the public finance and provide support for those public service , which I note the Liberal Democrats be very keen to support . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . when I become Chancellor , there be a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . we simply could not carry on like that , which be why I have take control of our public finance and make growth the no . 1 priority of the Government to improve living standard . in December , I launch the second phase of our spending review , where for the first time in 17 year every single pound of taxpayer money will be investigate line by line to ensure that it be be spend well . the spending review will set resource or day - to - day departmental budget until 2028 - 29 and capital departmental budget until 2029 - 30 . on 11 June , when we conclude the review , I will present departmental budget to the House . the recent drop in the rate of inflation be welcome news for those face financial pressure across Coatbridge and Bellshill , as be the expectation that the UK will become the fast grow economy in Europe . what further action be my right hon . friend take , work in partnership with Cabinet colleague , to ensure that work family continue to see price fall and living standard rise ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I know that the cost of living have a deep impact on all our constituent , include in Coatbridge and Bellshill . like my hon . friend , I be pleased to see the reduction in inflation last week . the Bank of England ' s independence be sacrosanct to carry on those effort . in addition , we increase the minimum wage in the Budget , we have reform universal credit to reduce deduction and we have extend the household support fund , all to help ensure that work family have more money in their pocket . I call the shadow Chancellor . a moment ago , the right hon . Lady speak about the importance of spend money wisely , so in the light of the Treasury Committee ' s conclusion that her new Office for Value for money be a waste of money , do she agree that one of its early action should be to abolish itself in order to save money ? I be pleased to appoint Tom Hayhoe to run the Office for Value for money — somebody who have a track record of deliver value for money for taxpayer . what the Government want to scrap be give contract to friend and donor , because that be a colossal waste of money instigate by the conservative party . the Chancellor ' s answer be an answer , but I do not think that it connect in any way with my question . could I perhaps ask she about national insurance hike ? a full two third of the revenue raise through Labour ' s job tax be simply go on service the additional debt be run up by this profligate Government . give that , do she really believe that the catastrophic effect of that tax on business right up and down the country be a price worth pay ? we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , and we set out the detail of that at the time of the Budget . it be essential to close that gap to bring stability back to the public finance . that require difficult decision , but they be the right decision to ensure that our country have the stability that it lack for so many year and under so many different Prime Ministers and Chancellors under the conservative party . my constituency of Mansfield have more member of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme than any other constituency in the country . will the Chief Secretary outline the process and question that need to be satisfied to release the investment reserve fund to the survive beneficiary of the scheme ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , which clearly be important to he and his constituent . I confirm to the House today that the Minister for Trade in the Department for Business and Trade be work with the trustee of the BCSSS to consider option . I will meet the Minister to look at those option and provide further update to the House in due course . the Local Government Association estimate that the Budget ' s increase to employer national insurance contribution will cost local council an extra £ 637 million per year . the Government ' s fund settlement for council in relation to that of £ 515 million will leave they with a gap , put key service such as social care , pothole repair and leisure facility at risk . will the Chancellor commit to fully find that gap for local council , rather than they have to look for saving ? during the passage of the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill , we set out clearly how the scheme would work to reimburse cost for public department or local government . that measure be in line with what the previous Government attempt to do with the health and social care levy . where third - party private contractor be engage , those cost will be consider by local government or other public sector organisation in the round . the previous Conservative Government decide to back an INEOS project in Antwerp , with a £ 600 million loan guarantee . I have speak with the current the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) about that , and I have be tell that the Government have no plan to stop that money , even though INEOS plan to close the Grangemouth refinery , with the loss of thousand of job . why be there £ 600 million for Antwerp and not Grangemouth , and why would the Government allow that to happen and not use the £ 600 million as leverage with INEOS , to avoid scottish job loss ? this government can not account for the decision make by the conservative party , but we have create the Office for Value for money , to ensure value for money when we use taxpayer ' s money . as someone actively involve in a number of business , unlike the majority of Front Benchers , I have spend far too much of my life try to communicate with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , and I be not alone . taxpayer cumulatively spend 798 year on hold with HMRC in 2022 - 23 , and letter often go unanswered for month . when the phone be pick up , decent british taxpayer and their adviser increasingly be treat like criminal by arrogant , petty , unaccountable bureaucrat . will the Chancellor commit to a comprehensive review of HMRC , to make it as accountable to the taxpayer as the taxpayer be to they — order . Mr Lowe , topical question be mean to be short and punchy . I be sure that you be very good at that normally . one of my key priority as Exchequer Secretary and the Minister with responsibility for HMRC be to oversee a programme of transformation at HMRC to improve its customer service , to digitise the service , to close the tax gap and to ensure that we have the modern , reform service that we need for the future . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the register of all - party parliamentary group . during the covid - 19 pandemic , 3 . 8 million self - employ UK taxpayer be shamefully exclude from Government financial support . many , include pregnant woman and war veteran , be forget about by the conservative party . will the Minister meet I to discuss how to address the unfairness face by so many during the pandemic ? as my hon . friend set out , decision on eligibility for covid - 19 financial support be take by the previous Government . the current Government have no plan to assess the financial compensation scheme , but the covid - 19 inquiry have recently launch its module to investigate the economic response to the pandemic . the Government be commit to learn from its finding . when I visit St Barnabas hospice in Lincoln recently , the chief executive tell I that it be have to pay £ 350 , 000 extra every year to cover the national insurance increase . I do not expect an answer now , but as we all agree that palliative care be so important and we want to encourage it , and the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill start its Committee stage today , will the Government keep that increase for hospice under review ? the Health Secretary set out the settlement for hospice just before Christmas to ensure that they have the money they need , include to compensate for the national insurance increase , but I be happy to arrange a meeting for the right hon . gentleman with the relevant Health Minister . on new year ' s day , hundred of my constituent wake up not to hangover and warm home , but to floodwater rush into their house . I watch as family with young child be pull from their home in Platt Bridge , and there be flood in Ashton and Bickershaw . I welcome the £ 2 . 4 billion that the Government have commit to flood defence scheme , but will the Minister commit to protect funding for flood victim and flood defence scheme ? I call the Minister — welcome to the Front Bench . my hon . friend be a powerful advocate for his constituent , and particularly for those who have suffer in recent week , include other across Greater Manchester . as I set out early , the Government have put in £ 2 . 4 billion to ensure flood resilience over the next two year ; as he will be aware , future decision on flood defence funding will be take in the spending review in the normal way . I know that he will continue to be a powerful advocate for his constituent . school in Westmorland have be tell that they will have to meet the cost of teacher pay rise next year , at least in part , from exist fund and by make efficiency . do the Chancellor not understand that all that be available to school in my constituency be sack teacher and merging class ? will she instead commit to fully fund the teacher ' pay rise and other cost increase , so that our school can do the job that they be mean to do ? the hon . Gentleman know that in order for we to restore public finance and put they on a firm foundation , departmental settlement have to reflect the cost of the civil servant they employ ; that be how the Departments be work . as the Chancellor have previously confirm , the Department for Education have receive money to cover the cost of run the education system , and the detail will be provide to school in the normal way in due course . the Secretary of State for Transport , the Secretary of State for Wales , the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee and the Welsh Government all go on record last week to recognise the previous Government ' s low spending on rail infrastructure in Wales . do my right hon . friend agree that this Government must put that under - investment right , and can she assure I that the Treasury recognise the crucial part that our railway play in economic growth in Wales ? I thank my hon . friend , who be an important champion for the Welsh economy . Wales can and will play a vital part in our growth mission . our two Labour government continue to work together as we review the position inherit from the Conservative Government , include on rail infrastructure , and decision will be set out in the spending review in June . will the Chancellor advise business in my constituency that be have to make staff unemployed and stop expansion plan in order to pay for her increase in employer national insurance contribution ? we have be clear since the Budget that the decision to raise employer national insurance contribution be one of the tough we have take as a Government , and we recognise that it have consequence for business . however , we think all business will benefit in future from the economic stability that this decision will bring ; it will drive investment and growth across the country . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate Intasite , a technology business in Stockton that be celebrate its 10th anniversary with 40 % growth ? do she agree that our industrial strategy will help business to invest and grow in Teesside ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Intasite on its 10th anniversary as a business , and on the rapid growth it be enjoy . the announcement we be able to make last year on the carbon capture and storage work in Teesside will be a big driver of job and growth there , and I look forward to work with he and local business in Stockton to make that a reality . do the Chancellor of the Exchequer propose fund the report £ 9 billion bill to the Mauritians for the continue use of Diego Garcia through high taxis , more borrowing or spending cut ? we be in discussion with the new Administration in the United States around the future of Diego Garcia . we will set out detail in the spending review , as the right hon . Gentleman would expect . it be estimate that 148 , 000 people have their life cut short between 2010 and 2020 as a result of austerity measure ; on top of that , poor health lead to more than £ 13 billion in lose productivity under the previous Government . what be my right hon . friend ' s estimate of the different choice , and the impact that they will have on the health of the nation and economic growth ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I know she study closely the work of Professor Michael Marmot on life expectancy and the impact of health inequality on our country . at the Budget , we increase the minimum wage . in addition , we extend the household support fund and reduce the amount that could be take in deduction from universal credit , all to try to put more money in the pocket of ordinary work people , to reduce some of those inequality and tackle the cost of living crisis . one of my GP surgery call I this morning to highlight the impact of the rise in national insurance contribution , which will cost it £ 40 , 000 . it can only respond by freeze cost of live pay increase for all its support staff . do the Chancellor finally accept that work people up and down the country be pay the price for her tax rise ? what we accept be that the difficult decision we take at the Budget enable extra funding to be put into the NHS . gp surgery have have a funding settlement that consider all the pressure on they in the round . my constituency have a proud industrial heritage , with manufacturing still worth £ 1 billion a year to the local economy from sector that account for nearly 10 % of the UK ' s total economic output . what step have the Government take to promote the growth of the manufacturing sector and ensure that town like Dudley continue to build on their industrial tradition ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and for the work she do to support and promote business in Dudley . through our modern industrial strategy , and the targeting of eight sector in which there be huge potential for growth , we will work with business right across the country on , for example , reform of the planning system to make it easy for they to build , and reform of the pension system to get funding for business , include those in Dudley , that be look to grow and expand . neither the US Federal Reserve nor the EU Central Bank be engage in active quantitative tightening , but the Bank of England be . the Bank of England be cost the public finance in the region of £ 13 billion a year as a result of a fire sale of UK Government bond . last time I speak to the Chancellor about that , she say that that be because of the Bank of England ' s operational independence , which we all value , but that be not a licence for impunity . what discussion will she have with the Bank of England about release UK Government debt in a way that benefit everybody in the UK ? it be our view that it be absolutely right that the Bank of England have operational independence . that be in line with international standard and what be happen in jurisdiction around the world , include in the United States and the eurozone . recent development in the UK investment trust sector have once again shine a light on the crucial role that retail investor play in our financial market . in her Mansion House speech last November , the Chancellor rightly prioritise leverage domestic pension capital to drive the Government ' s economic growth mission . do the Minister agree that great retail participation in UK financial market also support growth and democratise wealth , and will she meet I to discuss how the Government can well support access to financial market for individual , include in my constituency ? I be always happy to meet my hon . friend , who be a near constituency neighbour . we absolutely agree that retail investment be crucial . I want more progress on the advice guidance boundary and target support . I will be work closely , in my new role , with the Financial Conduct Authority to take that forward . resident in my constituency will have be extremely concerned to read the news this morning that the Chancellor plan to announce next week the expansion of Heathrow . I invite she to tell we , on the Floor of the House this morning , yes or no : will the Government back expansion at Heathrow ? I be not go to comment on leak . I will say that the Government be absolutely committed to grow our economy , and make this a great place for business to invest in and trade . Community Engagement Principles and Extremism Definition ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government if she will make a statement on community engagement principle and extremism . national security will always come first for this Government , and we will always treat the threat of extremism with the seriousness that it require . as the Prime Minister say this morning , " Britain now face a new threat " — a threat of extreme violence from people who be drive by material online . they be often now lone individual who be drive by a twisted desire for notoriety . it be a threat that we must contend with , alongside that from traditional terrorist group . the House will be aware that the Home Secretary will make a statement to the House shortly . all aspect of this change threat will be consider in her rapid review , order last year , which will inform the Government ' s counter - extremism strategy . the review panel be consider the current understanding of extremism , include islamist and far - right extremism , and its work will include a focus on how good to tackle the threat pose by extremist ideology , both online and offline . early finding be set out in December , alongside initial measure to tackle the challenge that we face . the Home Office will provide a further update on the measure and action arise from the counter - extremism sprint shortly . our Department retain responsibility for community and cohesion policy , and the Deputy Prime Minister have convene a new cross - Government community recovery steering group to develop a comprehensive strategy to address the underlie cause of division in our local community . in particular , it seek to address some of the cause of the disorder across the UK follow the Southport tragedy last summer . we have make it clear that a new approach be urgently need , and we have back that with an initial £ 50 million from the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government community recovery fund to support area that be impact over the summer . this question relate to an announcement make last March by Michael Gove , who be then Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , in which he set out some new definition of extremism , include the activity of islamist and far - right group , and robust non - engagement principle for the Government to apply when there be serious concern . that be particularly relevant to the MHCLG portfolio , which cover social service department and other organisation , youth justice and Prevent , through which public service engage at community level with a variety of organisation to gather intelligence , help people to move away from extremism , and intervene and disrupt emerge challenge , such as those pose by groom gang . the issue be also important for our often vilify muslim community , who contribute so much to our nation . the principle have be set out , the aim be to set out a new system for structured engagement . however , in July the Chancellor announce £ 120 million of saving in the MHCLG from " small project " . it subsequently emerge in answer to write parliamentary question that an element of that be reduce funding for " legal fee " which be no long expect " to arise from the previous Government ' s " cross - party " approach to extremism " . a series of Ministers have , since then , find it very challenging to determine exactly what this mean , but Ministers have tell the House in answer to write question that the March statement reflect the position of the last government — in other word , that this Government have choose to ditch the last government ' s policy on the non - engagement principle . I be conscious that this be very sensitive , give the statement about the Southport case that we will hear later , but will the Minister answer some question ? do the Department still adhere to that work definition of Islamism ? do it still have a work definition of non - violent extremism on which public body can rely , should they need to defend themselves when challenge ? can he tell the House why Ministers have not be — to quote from the " Ministerial Code " — " as open as possible " on this issue ? will he share with the House detail of correspondence and any meeting that have take place , and , in particular , the membership of the steering group to which he refer , so that more transparency and confidence surround this process ? I do not think it will be a revelation for member to hear that a change of Government often mean a change of approach to what have be share view and share problem . I believe that the last government deeply want to tackle extremism in all its form across the country , and we share that desire . where we differ be on the approach take by the Department . in last year ' s write ministerial statement — this , I have to say , be something with which I simply can not agree — the previous Secretary of State , for whom I have a lot of respect , choose for the Department to assume a great deal of responsibility for the issue , essentially on the part of the entire Government . I do not think that be the right approach , for very good reason . counter - extremism should , I believe , be the fundamental purview of the Home Office , not least because of the Home Office ' s access to confidential information that be often not available to the mchlg . the approach that we have choose in the new Government be to have a cross - government but Home Office - lead counter - extremism sprint , which will lead in due course to a counter - extremism strategy that shape the Government ' s way forward . that be a different approach to what be , I believe , a commonly understand problem . I can not accept the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of the previous process as robust . let we be honest : it be not use . the previous Secretary of State make a detailed write ministerial statement and set out a system that could have lead on this issue . he name some organisation , but it be very clear in the write ministerial statement that he be not prejudge any process for those organisation , and he subsequently do not use the process . I would question the hon . Gentleman ' s attachment to a previous process that the previous Government choose not to use . on the point about openness , I have answer multiple question from the shadow Secretary of State and the shadow Minister . I will continue to do so , and we will be as open as we possibly can be . similarly , with regard to the steering group , I do not think we have make that information public , but I be sure there be no problem in do so . I will make sure that it be available . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . at a time when we be see such an increase in religious hate crime , include Islamophobia and antisemitism , we all have a duty in this House to be careful about the language we use . I hope that the Government will look at their language , because it be vital for community cohesion that we be careful and do not unintentionally inflame tension . there be some really critical issue to consider , not just in this country but around the world . the Minister say that he be look at the definition of extremism , and at change measure put in place by the previous Government . will he outline whether the Government will consult on any new definition ? if we be honest and look back , there be a lack of consultation by the previous Government . I be grateful for the Chair of the Select Committee ' s question . language be important , and it be reasonable and right that our constituent expect we to be robust with those who choose to challenge and undermine democracy and the basic principle that guide our society , but also that we do not use our very privileged platform to give succour to hateful idea and prejudice . indeed , one thing that we know about the change nature of terror be that individual be take cue from organisation that stop short of the threshold for inflame terrorist - type behaviour . they be use that as encouragement , so we all have a responsibility to be measure in our response . with regard to the engagement with the Home Office , we want to make sure that anything that come out of the cross - government sprint and into the strategy can be buy into and own by community across the country , so there will be engagement . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as we know , the world be a fast - move and scary place , and people who feel disempowered and isolate often turn to the internet . they be often vulnerable , and their reliance on the internet for everything in their world put they at even great risk . we must work with our community leader to make the most of the information that they hold , and get early notice of problem . what worry I be that if we make assumption and do not work with our community , there be a risk of authoritarian decision making that affect all of we . what consultation have there be with community on the change , and what additional burden might fall on local authority follow change to how the Government work ? furthermore , with such extreme thing take place online , especially on the platform of social medium giant base across the pond , what be the Government actively do to unite faith and cultural leader , environmental group , industry and people across generation to foster unity and stop extremism across the whole spectrum ? I agree with a lot of what the hon . Lady ' s say about early intervention and tackle isolation at its root . as she say , local authority be really important partner in that endeavour . that be why we will ensure that whatever come out of our community and recovery steering group lean into the partnership with local authority and local law enforcement , where possible , to ensure that the right resource and support be in place . the hon . Lady ask about engagement and ensure that we have a contribution from those affect across our faith community . my noble Friend from the other place , Lord Khan , the Faith Minister , have meet representative of all faith and will continue to do so . the Government will keep have that important dialogue with different faith group to ensure that the idea that we bring forward will be effective and be root in real life , but we will also promote inter - faith work , which she mention . I know from my own community that when we have have challenge , the good thing we have have to lean on to tackle hate , wherever it might emerge , be the inter - faith relationship . there be real division in our community , and extremism be change at great speed . although the vast majority of member in this House treat such division as a tragedy and as something that need to be solve calmly , there be some , sadly , who appear to view it as a political opportunity . do the Minister agree that member need to be calm in their dialogue on this issue , and that when they be not , they should be call out by all political party ? I have always feel that there be two type of politician . there be those who seek to move thing forward politically by bring people together , and those who seek to exploit division . it be up to individual hon . and right hon . member to decide which be their personal approach . when there be divisive — or border on hateful — language in political party , we would expect they to resolve that in their normal way . with regard to leadership in this country , we be certainly the lucky people in the country . we get to come here every day and tackle these issue head - on in the interest of our community and our country . almost exclusively , member use that platform for good . we have important distinction and difference , and that be great in a democracy , but we want to bring the country together and move it forward together . that be certainly the approach that I will be use . can the Minister reassure the House on the Government ' s approach to the Muslim Council of Britain ? the previous Government decide to break off engagement with the MCB for very real reason , include the infiltration into that organisation that have happen . can the Minister tell the House that he and his Government will not be engage with it ? those whom I and all my ministerial colleague in the Department — and all minister include the Prime Minister and across the Government — meet with be a matter of public record , which can be interrogate in its right way . I be go to stop short of provide a run commentary , organisation by organisation , with regard to who we will not meet — [ interruption . ] as I say , I be not go to provide a running commentary on that organisation . it be very clear from the record who I do and do not meet . I be a little bit concerned by the shadow Minister ' s conflation of extremism with child sexual exploitation and groom gang . do my hon . friend agree that how we use language be important if we be to avoid eradicate the social cohesion that many of we have spend many , many year establish in our community ? it be important that we be careful with our language and with conflation . one thing I know about , after the many year of build trust in my community , be that it take a long time to build that trust but it can be lose very quickly if we be thoughtless in the language that we use . when a crime have the attribute of a terrorist outrage , but the police , in their engagement with the community , proactively announce that it be not initially be treat as such , be that not bind to give rise to public suspicion that the truth be be cover up ? I do not know what in particular the right hon . Gentleman be refer to — [ interruption . ] well , he do not have to use code language if he mean a specific incident . there be rightly a distinction between what the Government of the day do and what the police do . we be not here to direct the police . in line with what I have say , however , all public body need to be careful about the language they use because it have real - world consequence . member across the House will know how important community engagement be to build strong community , and that work together with those whose view we may not share but can respect be really important . I want to pay tribute to the fantastic work of the Bracknell Forest Interfaith Forum for do exactly that in my community . the Conservatives , when in government , cut funding to the Inter Faith Network , which be work at national level . what can we do to support organisation such as the Bracknell Forest Interfaith Forum to bring religious group together and to help we understand that we do indeed have more in common than that which divide we ? there be real sadness when the previous Government move away from interfaith as a model . my hon . friend the Faith Minister have be clear about how important he think it be , and that be why promote interfaith work have be a core part of the work he have do so far . we know that a number of the individual who be radicalise be encourage to find that radicalisation by high - risk platform on the dark web . will the Minister and the Home Secretary ensure that they work together with the Department for Culture , Media and Sport to ensure that the Online Safety Act 2023 do as it be intend to do , which be to regulate those high - risk platform , rather than the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport just allow Ofcom to step away from they and let they do what they like ? I share the hon . Lady ' s intent . we know that , whether it be in publicly available online forum or on the dark web , there be people who will use all corner of the internet to promote their view and to promote hateful ideology . as part of our counter - extremism sprint and the strategy that will follow from that , we be look very carefully at this and at the tool that we need to tackle it . we will all be sadly familiar with the shocking and racist remark make by the conservative party donor Frank Hester last year . I do not intend to repeat they in this House , so that we do not have to relive they , but do the Minister agree that that kind of language encourage extremism and have no place in our politic ? we all have to be careful , both as individual and collectively within our party , about the individual with whom we choose to associate and from whom we choose to take money , so that we do not send message that we would not want to send . the Minister mention a rapid review ; perhaps he can give the House a timetable . as part of that review , could he include the Charity Commission and ask what charity might be divide our community rather than unify they ? also , could more official from the Cabinet Office and the Home Office be second to his Department so that the decision around Prevent and this review be take in a well way ? on the development of the strategy , I do not want to pre - empt the Home Secretary because I be conscious that she be make the next statement . on Cabinet Office resourcing and secondment , our commitment , as the House would expect , be that fundamentally we be one government and we must find internal way to work effectively . come what may , we will not hide behind that as an excuse for why thing be not effective . instead , when minister ask question , we will address they in the spirit of one Government . I commend both side of the House on how they have respectfully approach this statement , because that be really important . the Minister talk about the robustness of this topic , and I be keen to pick he up on that , because one tenet in the UK be all about safety and the other be freedom of speech . can the Government rule out change any definition that could lead , intentionally or unintentionally , towards blasphemy law , because free speech be really important ? the Home Secretary will have the chance to talk about the counter - extremism strategy in due course , but I assure the hon . Gentleman that we have be look at the early sign from that review , and these be talk about in December by my hon . friend the Security Minister . to some degree these be about the place in which hate fester rather than about legislative change . our thought today be with the family of those three poor little girl and with everybody who be hurt in that terrible event last summer . it be inexcusable that state agency miss vital opportunity to intervene in this devastating case , include at three crucial point follow Prevent referral . these failing shine a grim light on the significant crack in our public service , follow year of spending cut and underinvestment . will the Minister join I in call for the public inquiry to consider the role of austerity since 2010 as a contribute factor to these terrible failing ? again , I be afraid I can not pre - empt what the Home Secretary be about to say , but the hon . Lady will have the chance to put that point to she soon . in our community strategy and our attempt to ensure that community be resilient one where people can live together in harmony , we be of course consider what be say in Dame Sara Khan ' s review , and one of the underlie cause that she raise concern about be austerity . we need to make sure that we have well - resource public service . we also need to ensure that people do not feel that there be any division in the allocation of resource that be in some way target against they . we know that that should never be the case and would never be the case , so of course we be consider that as part of our community work . the independent review of Prevent , the Government programme that try to stop people be radicalise by extremist view , say on its very first page that " the fact clearly demonstrate that the most lethal threat in the last 20 year have come from Islamism , and this threat continue . " the last Government know this to be true . do this Government ? this Government have take on the independent review of Prevent , and 33 of its 34 recommendation have be implement . we be engage in the counter - extremism sprint , and our counter - extremism strategy will flow from it . the hon . Lady will have a chance to see that . I will have a go at get an answer from the Minister , even if he do not answer the question of my hon . friend the Member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) . yesterday , the Department confirm in answer to a freedom of information request that there be internal government correspondence about the Muslim Council of Britain that it refuse to publish . can the Minister overturn that decision , publish the paper and confirm that there have be no discussion and no correspondence within Whitehall propose re - engagement with the MCB ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the position have not move . I have previously state in answer to write question that we be not meet the Muslim Council of Britain . [ hon . member : " say it again ! " ] I be not sure I can say it any more clearly than at the Dispatch Box in the Chamber of the House of Commons . the position have not change from the previous Government . I thank the Minister for his answer to all the question . in Northern Ireland , of course , we face extremism from the left and right , but at the same time we have manage to have community engagement , and I believe lesson can be learn . it be essential that our police force have the wherewithal to deal with threat through an appropriate mechanism . the designation of community threat and extremism be truly essential . will the Minister outline whether the process of designation can be streamline to ensure that the police have all the power they need to work within community to root out and deal with paramilitary and extremist , with safeguard for human right ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s question . his work on the persecution of Christians across the world read across to some of those challenge in make sure we have cohesive community across the UK . of course , police in Northern Ireland be a devolved matter , so it be not for a Minister in the UK Parliament , but I assure he that we give the good insight to make sure that public institution be interact in the good way possible . I often feel for junior officer who , early in their service , be have to deal with what be often quite complicated issue in live time . we want to make sure they get the good information so that they be able to do so . Southport Attack before we come to the Home Secretary ' s statement , I want to say that I appreciate that it have be most frustrating for the House that we have not be able to discuss the issue relate to this case because of ongoing prosecution . although the case be still technically sub judice until sentence on Thursday , give that the accuse have plead guilty to all charge and that there be strong public interest in the House be able to discuss these matter , I be grant a waiver so that Members may discuss it freely . I be confident that the House ' s sub judice resolution have be follow correctly , and I be grateful to member for their patience in not discuss this case substantially before now . I be go to ensure that the House ' s sub judice resolution be review to ensure it be fit for purpose . with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on the Southport murder . none of we will ever forget the event of 29 July . the school holiday have just start , and little girl be at a dance class to have fun , dance and sing . a moment of joy turn into the darkest of nightmare . we think especially of three little girl — Elsie Dot Stancombe , Bebe King and Alice da Silva Aguiar — their precious smile and the dream their family have , and we think of their family ' agony to have that future so brutally destroy . they be in all our heart and prayer , as be those who survive the attack but live with the physical and emotional scar . nothing will ever take away their trauma and loss , and we will ensure that they receive the support and care they need in the year to come . we think , too , of the police and first responder who run into that scene of unspeakable horror . the courage they show and the life they save be public service at its very good . yesterday , Axel Rudakubana plead guilty to all charge . he stand responsible for one of the most barbaric crime in our country ' s history — the most vile and cowardly attack on little child who could never defend themselves , carry out in the most horrific and traumatic way . the Crown Prosecution Service have describe he as " a young man with a sicken and sustain interest in death and violence " who have " show no sign of remorse . " on Thursday , before sentencing , the prosecution will set out what happen that day and the nature of those offence . now that the conviction have be secure , the family , the people of Southport and the entire country need answer about how this horrendous attack could ever have happen . the Government have be constrain in what we could say up to this point about Rudakubana ' s past to avoid prejudice any jury trial , in line with all the normal rule of our british justice system , because nothing be more important than secure justice , but now we can start to lay out that background . multiple different agency be in contact with Rudakubana and know about his history of violence . he be refer to Prevent three time between December 2019 and April 2021 , when aged 13 and 14 . between October 2019 and May 2022 , Lancashire police respond to five call from his home address about his behaviour . he be refer repeatedly to the multi - agency safeguard hub . he have contact with child ' s social care , the early help service , and child and adolescent mental health service . he be convict of a violent assault against another child at school and be refer to the youth offend team . he be exclude from one school and have long period of absence from another . all those agency have contact with he yet , between they , they completely fail to identify the terrible danger he pose . how do he fall through so many gap ? it be just unbearable to think that something more could and should have be do . there be grave question about how this network of agency fail to identify and act on the risk . there be so many sign of how dangerous he have become , yet the action against he be far too weak . family need the truth about why the system fail to tackle his violence for so many year . that be why we be set up an independent public inquiry . like the Angiolini inquiry into Wayne Couzens , it will begin work on a non - statutory basis so that it can move quickly into action , but with statutory power add later , as require . we will set out the term of reference and appoint the chair once we have consult the coroner and give the family the opportunity to comment . in addition to examine what go wrong in this horrific case , I be also ask the inquiry to consider the wide challenge of rise youth violence and extremism . I have be deeply disturb at the number of case involve teenager draw into extremism , serious violence and terrorism — include islamist extremism , far right extremism , mixed and confused ideology , and obsession with violence and gore . in just three year , there have be a threefold increase in under - 18 investigate for involvement in terrorism . some 162 people be refer to Prevent last year for concern relate to school massacre ; the Met Commissioner have warn about " young man who be fixate on violence . . . graze across extremist and terrorist content " ; and five Eyes counter - terror partner have warn about grow radicalisation of minor , happen as so many of our child and teenager be be expose to ever more disturbing material online . an online ecosystem be radicalise our child while safety measure be whittle away . the Online Safety Act 2023 illegal content code of practice come into force in March and the child safety code should be in place this summer , but company should take responsibility before then . the prosecution will provide more detail on Thursday about material Rudakubana search for online , but I can tell the House that the Government be this week contact technology company to ask they to remove the dangerous material that he access . company should not be profit from host content that put child ' s life at risk . let I set out four other area where we be take action in advance of the inquiry . first , on Prevent , the Government and counter - terrorism policing jointly commission an immediate Prevent learning review during the summer , and I will publish detailed finding follow the sentencing . the three referral take place between three and four year before the Southport attack , include follow evidence Rudakubana be express interest in school shooting , the London Bridge attack , the IRA , MI5 and the middle east . on each occasion , Rudakubana ' s case be assess by counter - terrorism policing , but in each instance there be no onward referral to specialist Channel support . the learning review have conclude that the referral should not have be close , and that case such as these , give the perpetrator ' s age and complex need , should be refer to Channel . it conclude that too much weight be place on the absence of ideology , without consider the vulnerability to radicalisation , or take account of whether he be " obsess with massacre or extreme violence " , and that the cumulative significance of those three repeat referral be not properly consider . the Prevent programme be vital to our national security and its officer work with huge dedication to keep we safe , but we need it to be effective . some change have already be make since 2021 , include new Prevent duty guidance , new training for frontline worker on radicalisation and strong policy on repeat referral . in September 2024 , a new Prevent assessment framework be launch , supplement by robust training for all Prevent police officer , but those change do not go far enough . give the importance of the programme , I can not understand how it have be allow to operate for so long without proper independent oversight . that be why I announce before Christmas the introduction of a new independent Prevent commissioner with power to review case and ensure standard be be meet . I be today appoint Lord David Anderson KC as the interim Prevent commissioner , to start work immediately . his first task will be to conduct a thorough review of the Prevent history in this case to identify what change be need to make sure serious case be not miss , particularly where there be mixed and unclear ideology . I have also task my Department with conduct an end - to - end review of Prevent threshold , include on islamist extremism , where referral have previously be too low . we be look at case where mental ill health or neurodivergence be a factor , and develop new arrangement with other agency for case that may not meet the threshold for Channel counter - extremism support , but where violent behaviour must be address urgently . secondly , two shocking fact around knife crime have emerge from this case . the Prevent learning review find that Rudakubana admit to have carry a knife more than 10 time , yet the action against he be far too weak . despite the fact that he have be convict for violence and be just 17 , he be easily able to order a knife on Amazon . that be a total disgrace and it must change . we will bring in strong measure to tackle knife sale online in the crime and police Bill this spring . thirdly , as the Prime Minister have set out this morning , we need to ensure our law keep up with the change violent and extremist threat that we face . it be for the police and CPS to decide whether individual case meet the definition set out in the Terrorism Act 2000 when make charge , but give the grow number of case where perpetrator be seek to terrorise , even without a clear ideology , we need to ensure that the law , power and sentencing be strong enough to cope . I have therefore ask the independent reviewer on terrorism power to examine the legislation in this area in light of the modern threat we face . finally , let I address the issue of contempt of court . the british way of justice mean that information be present to the court by the police and CPS with restriction on what can be say beforehand , so that the jury do not get partial or prejudicial information in advance , and to ensure the trial be fair and justice be do . social medium put those long - establish rule under strain , especially where partial and inaccurate information appear online , and the Law Commission be review the contempt of court rule in that light . but let I be clear that where the police , Government and journalist be give clear advice from the CPS about contempt of court and about not publish information in advance of a trial , if we do not respect that and a killer walk free , we would never be forgive . there be time when something so unfathomably terrible happen that whatever word we find feel grossly insufficient , and that be how it feel over the Southport attack . let there be no doubt : responsibility for this outrage lie squarely with the perpetrator . equally , in the wake of such a monstrous atrocity , we have to ask every question , no matter how difficult , and where change be need , we must act . that now be our task . we owe that to the victim and their loved one , and we owe it to the country , because protect the public be the first duty of the Government and the share purpose of this House . I commend this statement to the House . rise — order . let we start and I will try to call everybody who be here on time . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement and for the briefing she kindly arrange . first , let we remember the three young , innocent victim of this savage and senseless attack : Bebe King be just six year old , Elsie Dot Stancombe be seven and Alice da Silva Aguiar be nine year old . their life be cruelly cut short as they attend a Taylor Swift dance class . it should have be a time of joy , part of a precious and innocent childhood to be cherish and remember , and yet the dark of shadow fall over Southport that day as those girl be rob of their young life . let we not forget that eight more child and two adult be seriously injure on that day as well . many of we in the House be parent or grandparent , and many people listen today will be too . we can only begin to imagine the pain and grief the parent and family of Bebe , Elsie and Alice must now be feel . we should recognise and thank the first responder who arrive at the scene . we owe it to the memory of those child and to their bereaved parent to learn the lesson from this terrible incident and to take step to make sure it do not happen again . in that spirit , I welcome and support the inquiry announce yesterday . will the Home Secretary confirm that it will be place on a statutory footing as soon as possible , to ensure its independence and to enable it to compel disclosure of the evidence it may need ? it be vital to get to the truth about the opportunity that may have exist to stop the evil perpetrator , Axel Rudakubana , from commit those sicken murder . Rudakubana be encounter multiple time , as the Home Secretary have say , by the police , social service , the school system and the Prevent programme over a period of several year . the inquiry will find out , I hope , whether mistake be make or whether the law need to change . the Home Secretary mention some area that will rightly be look at , and I support that . will the Home Secretary confirm that the inquiry will include consideration of whether the Mental Health Act 1983 be adequate for this case ? the Home Secretary have rightly refer to Prevent . a review of Prevent be conduct by Sir William Shawcross and the last Government respond to that in February 2024 . will the Home Secretary now commit to implement all the recommendation of the Shawcross review ? I now turn to what happen after the murder and to the importance of openness and transparency . first — this be a serious and important question — will the Home Secretary confirm that the inquiry will also cover the Government , police and CPS response to the murder and especially the handling of public communication and the appalling riot that follow ? it be a very important question , and I will be grateful if the Home Secretary answer that directly in her response . the Prime Minister this morning acknowledge that he know about the background to the case and to Rudakubana himself , include that he have be refer to Prevent on three separate occasion and that he have be find to be in possession of ricin — a highly toxic chemical — and a manual detail al - Qaeda terrorist method , which be itself an offence under the Terrorism Act 2006 . the Prime Minister also say this morning that he do not disclose any of that to the public in the day and week after the murder for fear of prejudice the subsequent murder trial . it be , of course , important for journalist , politician and this House to do nothing that might prejudice a trial . however , Jonathan Hall KC , the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , say this , in the context of the case , on the " Today " programme in October : " the Government have to be aware … that if there be an information gap … then there be other voice , particularly in social medium , who will try and fill it . " he go on , " if there be any information you can give , put it in the public domain , and be really careful that you don ' t fall into the trap of say ' we can only say zilch , because there be criminal proceeding ' . " he continue : " quite often , there ' s a fair amount … that can be put into the public domain " . Jonathan Hall conclude by say that that police realise now " that just say ' there ' s a charge , we can ' t say any more ' , be not go to cut it these day . " the independent reviewer be therefore say that the Government and police can put some material into the public domain without prejudice subsequent trial . in fact , on 29 October , Rudakubana be charge with possess the ricin and the terror manual , and that be then make public . if that can be make public in October without risk prejudice of the murder trial , it follow that it could have be make public in August without prejudice that same trial . background fact on other case over the year have be make public after arrest and before trial without prejudice — the shield relate to two of those case be in this Chamber . why , therefore , do the Prime Minister not make public some of that background information in August when he know it , when later disclosure of that information in October demonstrate that such disclosure could be make without prejudice ? why , too , do the Deputy Prime Minister , on 31 July , dismiss as " fake news " those say that there may be further fact to come out ? briefly , before conclude , let I explain why that be important . as Jonathan Hall say , if there be a void , misinformation can fill that void , especially online . that appear to be what happen here and some of that information , it be say , originate overseas from hostile state . it be possible — indeed , even likely — that that misinformation that be put into the void fuel the totally unacceptable riot we then subsequently see . will the Home Secretary therefore accept , give what Jonathan Hall and I have say , that there should and could have be more openness and transparency , as I just set out , without prejudice the trial , and that disclose more of that truth openly and transparently would have help combat the damaging misinformation that circulate and which , arguably , fuel the riot ? will she confirm the inquiry will look at that aspect of event ? this be an appalling tragedy : young girl , murder , with their whole life ahead of they . let we all learn the lesson from this tragedy in honour of their memory . the shadow Home Secretary raise a series of point , which be obviously a substantial shift in position for he and his party from the one they take in government . he ask about the status of the inquiry . I can confirm that it will start quickly on a non - statutory basis , in the same way that the Angiolini inquiry do . however , I can also confirm that it will be give whatever power it need , include on a statutory basis , so that it can get any information that it need . the right hon . Gentleman refer to the Shawcross review . I can confirm that the Government have implement 33 out of the 34 recommendation . I will gently point out , however , that the approach that the Shawcross review take be to say that the Prevent programme should be narrow and should focus particularly on the case around terrorism . that could have risk include few case like this one , where ideology be less clear . the shadow Minister then raise the issue about the information that be provide . he will know that the Contempt of Court Act be set out in 1981 . Jonathan Hall have highlight the problem of disinformation online , with social medium actor not bind by the same rule that the police , the medium and the Government follow . he refer , for example , to the name and nationality be provide , which in practice they be in this case after misinformation appear online . ultimately , he have also say that all that be govern by the Contempt of Court Act 1981 , and the Law Commission be review that . however , it be not for the Government to ignore the law or the advice that we be give when justice for family be at stake . I will point out to the right hon . Gentleman that the previous Conservative Government do not publish information before the trial about the Prevent referral for the perpetrator who kill Sir David Amess . none of we criticise they for that because none of we want to put at risk justice for Sir David ' s family . nor do they publish information before the trial on the Prevent referral of the asylum seeker who kill Tom Roberts . in fact , they do not even publish that after the trial ; it only come out in the inquest . far , the Minister , who even after the trial refuse to answer my question on whether they know that the asylum seeker be want for murder two people in Serbia when he be allow to enter the country , be the current shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . we have be keen to publish the information on Prevent referral from the start , but the advice to we have be clear throughout . if we have ignore the advice that we be give about the case that be put to we and about the information that the police and the CPS be work through in order to get justice , and if , as a result , a killer have walk free , no one would ever have forgive the Government or anyone else . the most important thing be to get justice and then , once justice be secure , to make sure at this point that the question be answer about what go wrong and why three young girl ' life be lose . that be the question the shadow Home Secretary should be focus on right now . it have be another tough week for my Southport constituency , as I be sure that member across the House will appreciate . I want to start by thank the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister for the calm , diligent way in which they have undertake their work over the last six month , and for the way in which they have be good friend to Southport . I be clear back in the summer that I do not want people speculate online as to the motive or the background of the person who we can now say be the murderer of those three girl . we be risk prejudice the trial , and it could have collapse because of that speculation . in fact , it be not just speculation , but in some respect , downright lie — downright lie that be be circulate in the interest of political gain , with the interest of justice a distant second . do the Home Secretary agree that the next stage of achieve justice for my community and for the family impact so desperately by the crime back in July — that is , the public inquiry — should also be allow to undertake its work and make its recommendation free of the ridiculous nonsense and lie that we have see from public figure who should know well and which have be circulate purely for their own interest ? my hon . friend have be an important voice for the people in his community throughout this unimaginably difficult time and have speak for they with great dignity and passion , include in this House . my hon . friend be right that nothing of that sort should be do ; it be part of our british justice tradition that information be produce at the trial , but not in advance for fear of prejudice a jury , of undermine justice and of potentially let criminal walk free . he be right that we should never do that . he be also right that his community , include the family involve , need answer now . and the answer that they need include how on earth this shocking , disturbing and barbaric attack be able to happen . what go wrong ? what could have be do to prevent it ? there be also the question of how we as a society face up to the rise youth violence and extremism that we have see , with this be just one example among some very disturbing case . that be the justice and the answer that those family need . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . what happen in Southport last year be a horrific tragedy . three innocent young girl — Alice , Bebe and Elsie — lose their life to an act of senseless brutal violence , and our thought go out to the bereaved family and their friend , for whom this week will be incredibly difficult . we all owe it to these girl to ensure that a senseless tragedy such as this can never happen again . it have be deeply concern to hear report about how , in the lead - up to the attack , warning sign be miss as the attacker fall through the crack in the system . the Liberal Democrats welcome the Government ' s commitment to an inquiry , and , clearly , tough question need to be ask . the inquiry must not shy away from get the answer . this inquiry , like other , will only reach its full potential when there be a duty of candour that require public official and authority to co - operate fully . I would welcome more detail from the Home Secretary on when her government plan to finally introduce the Hillsborough law to Parliament . our country also deserve a counter - terrorism strategy that keep our community safe and be fit to tackle the modern challenge that we face in an increasingly complex online world that cross international boundary . will the Home Secretary confirm that these concern will be address in the upcoming counter - terrorism strategy ? this must be a watershed moment from which we move forward by build a system that avoid future failure such as we have see in this case . it be my sincere hope that we can work together across this House to make that a reality . the hon . Member make an important point : we want to introduce the duty of candour as part of the Hillsborough law . she be also right to talk about the challenge of counter terrorism , extremism and these change pattern of extreme violence . as the Met Commissioner have say , those with a fixation on violence and gore be also consume different bit of terrorist and extremist material . the ideology may be unclear , but they pose a danger to the public . this inquiry need to look at all those issue , and , as part of our Prevent work and counter - terrorism work , we need to act at pace in these area as well . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement this afternoon . as many member have say , our thought remain with Bebe , Elsie and Alice . we can all remember where we be that late mid - morning on 29 July . I have just drop off my two child at their holiday camp at school . when the news break , I could feel that panic . I almost stop for a minute to think : be my child safe ? we think about the other child and the trauma that they will be feel , and the first responder who run towards that danger know that they could be harm . the Home Secretary have announce an inquiry , but , sadly , there be also the issue of the nature of the violence that children as young as 15 or 16 be view online — the nature of the violence that be use on Elianne Andam when she be tragically stab in Croydon on 27 September , and the nature of the violence that Axel Rudakubana use on these three girl . how will the Home Secretary ensure that the institution which , if we be honest , fail to see those warning sign will not fail in the future ? what will the inquiry do differently , so that , as a House , we will not be come back to recount dangerous tragedy again in the future ? my hon . friend be right to describe how every parent and grandparent will have feel on hear those awful description on that day in July . she be also right to focus on what our young people — our child — be see online . if we do not face up to this , the damage that we could be do to generation down the line be disturbing and troubling . that mean that social medium company need to take responsibility . the Online Safety Act 2023 will introduce strong code and requirement , but the company themselves also need to take some responsibility , instead of go backwards , which they be at the moment . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement , and my thought be with everybody involve . the list that she set out of the point where the agency and institution could have intervene soon be truly terrifying . what reassurance can she give the House that this be a cross - government piece of work and that all agency and institution will be involve ? furthermore , as and when the inquiry make recommendation , which it will hopefully do on an interim basis , will she give a commitment that she will look carefully at they and implement they as soon as possible ? we will certainly look at any recommendation that come from this important inquiry . we need to look at what go wrong in this case . this be particularly about the interaction between the different agency . there be so many agency involve , but , as a network , they fail to identify the risk and to have sufficient action in place . Lancashire county council have carry out a rapid initial review , but there still have to be a statutory child safeguard practice review and a coroner ' s inquiry . however , our view be that those be not sufficient , because we need a cross - agency examination of all of the thing that go wrong in this case . we have to start with the danger that be pose to those child in Southport in such a devastating way and then see why the system so badly fail to protect they from those danger . we need that rather than organisation work in their own silo , do only their bit and then leave child at risk . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement and for announce the public inquiry . I want to remember Alice , Bebe and Elsie , and their family and friend . I also want to remember the other victim of the attack and the first responder , some of whom have give harrowing account over the last six month of what they find at the Hart Space in Southport . do my right hon . friend agree that we in this House should recommit to the principle that nothing that we say or do in this place or elsewhere should prejudice criminal proceeding or prevent justice from be secure ? do she agree that to have do so in this case would have be an insult to the memory of Alice , Bebe and Elsie , an insult to their family and friend , and an insult to everyone in the community in Southport who be , and remain , so badly affect by what happen on 29 July last year ? my hon . friend make an important point . the family and all the people across Southport and the country need the truth . they need answer about what happen and what go so badly wrong in this case . that be why the information be put before the trial and then release after the trial . that be how the british justice system work . crucially , at the heart of this , people need to see justice . there have to be an account for such a terrible , terrible , barbaric crime . all of we have to make sure that justice be deliver , because when life have be lose in such a terrible way , justice be the minimum that they deserve . I hope the Home Secretary will not take it as a discourtesy if I say to she that it should be the Prime Minister make this statement here today . this morning , he say on television that singleton terrorist attack be a very new occurrence ; they be not . they have be go on for nearly a decade . there have be many in London , include one in the yard of this House of Commons , and one that kill Sir David Amess , our colleague . in that attack on Sir David Amess , the police declare it a terrorist incident the same day . without three Prevent reference , without ricin , and without an al - Qaeda manual , they declare it a terrorist event the same day . so we all wonder why this be not the case here when there be such evidence . this be a clear mistake , be it not ? the decision about the application of the Terrorism Act 2000 be one for the police and , ultimately , the CPS when it lay charge base on the operational information that it have . the prosecution will lay out more information before sentence that they would have put before the court today have the offender not plead guilty initially , and that be for they to decide . but the point the Prime Minister make this morning be that this be clearly a case where someone attempt to terrorise the community . that be clearly their intention — to kill those child and to terrorise more widely . that be why we have to ensure that , even in case where the police and the prosecution say they have not be able to prove ideology , we still have the right power , sentencing and ability to respond with swiftness and seriousness to the kind of case we be face . that be why the Prime Minister have say this need to be review — I refer to the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation look at those issue — and also why we have this statement to the House and be do this inquiry . where I disagree with the right hon . Gentleman be when he say we have have such case for a long time . we have see in recent year a big increase in youth violence and extremism on a disturbing scale , and that need to be part of the inquiry as well . I associate myself and my community with the statement from the Home Secretary on this tragic incident . whether it be the purchasing of knife online or the sharing of horrible video celebrate violence and death , there be clearly a gap in the ability of the state to hold social medium company and online retailer to account . what more can the Government do , together with the intelligence service , to take robust action and hold to account social medium company that be allow extremism , violence and horror to be present on their site ? my hon . friend raise an important point . we be raise with the company some of the particular dangerous material that this terrible offender access online , and the police and prosecution will say more about some of that material later this week . my hon . friend be right to highlight the issue around online knife sale . we know that in the case of Ronan Kanda , who be brutally murder with a ninja sword , that the perpetrator be able to buy that online and pick it up with no age check at all . in this case , for a 17 - year - old to be able to get the knife he use online from Amazon , that be frankly shocking . Commander Stephen Clayman have be do a review for we of online knife sale and the kind of check that should be take place . we will bring forward new measure to tackle this problem base on that review . I be particularly draw to the line in the immediate learning review where it conclude that " too much weight be place on the absence of ideology , without consider the vulnerability to radicalisation " . much of the challenge over the summer be because there be an understandable lack of public understanding of the distinction between a terrorist incident and a non - terrorist incident . have this person do exactly the same thing but be drive by a desire to create a caliphate here in the UK , it would of course have be define as a terrorist attack . the fact that it be not be of no solace to the family who lose love one . be it not now the time — I appreciate this could be part of the review , but I urge the Home Secretary to ensure it be give particular emphasis in the review — to get rid of this entirely arbitrary distinction of motivation and to focus exclusively on the risk and action ? the former Home Secretary make an extremely important point because , from the point of view of the family and the community , the attack be intend to terrorise the community , and their real concern be about the scale of the harm . they see the loss of child ' s life and the impact on the community . the law be set out in the Terrorism Act 2000 , and there be serious consideration for different agency about the nature of the response . if there be an ideological attack or motivation , it may be that a counter - extremism response — the kind of support that the Channel programme provide — be target at the extremist ideology that need to be challenge , tackle and take down . alternatively , if the issue be around mental health or an obsession with violence and gore , it may need a different kind of response . but the right hon . member be right that the threat from the point of view of the community will feel the same . that be why the law need to be look at again , but it be also why we need to have this inquiry , which can look at where the gap be in the way that different state agency respond , because we have see those grow gap — obviously , in the most traumatic of way in this case . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement . in her statement and in the Prime Minister ' s speech this morning , they paint a terrifying picture of how terrorism be change in this country and how the threat we face be evolve , especially with the proliferation of extremely violent online content , which be have an effect on mixed ideology and ideology from across the spectrum . clearly , part of the response will be from the intelligence service . will the Home Secretary tell we how the intelligence service will be respond to this evolve threat and what the Government be do to prevent the growth of extremism through extreme online content ? my hon . friend be right that we seem to have case where there be extreme violence , or where obsession grow around extreme violence , and then young people cast around to consume different kind of terrorist or extremist material , but at its heart it may be an obsession with violence . different circumstance will require different kind of response , but the scale of the grow obsession with violence should be a serious concern to we because it make we think , " what be we allow to happen to our kid and teenager if we see this kind of obsession grow ? " that be why we need action . clearly , the focus of the intelligence and security agency be on those case where there be organise ideology and radicalisation , as well as state threat , but we have to deal with the kind of threat that our society face much more widely , and that mean everyone need to be part of it . I associate myself with colleague ' remark about the murder of those three wee girl and the bravery of the first responder . Most of all , we think about the family leave behind . I agree that we have a responsibility to the victim , when talk about these kind of case , to ensure that we do so responsibly , while keep the Government under scrutiny . there be a fast evolve situation regard technology company . will the Home Secretary tell we what area she be look at on enforcement ? in this diverse , multi - agency case , what interaction have she have with the Scottish Government and the devolved administration in the area where they have responsibility ? the hon . member be right that there be issue around the responsibility of social medium company . strong power will be bring in as part of the Online Safety Act , but we urge the company to take responsibility now and not to continue to profit from dangerous material that be put kid at risk . on the discussion with the Scottish Government , we have broad discussion plan for later this week on some of our share Home Office responsibility . the hon . Member will know that policing and crime be devolve , but that national security issue , where terrorism case may fall or have an impact , be reserve . on such case , we would expect to consult the Scottish Government and discuss the way forward . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement . my thought and prayer be with everyone involve . act of terror devastate the family of victim who be leave to pick up the piece , have their close love one rob from they in the cruell way . as with the Forbury Gardens terrorist attack in 2020 , which see my constituent Gary and Jan Furlong lose their beloved son James , these act often take place after multiple agency failing . the Forbury Gardens perpetrator have be refer to Prevent four time and be know to mental health service . it will be important to those family in Southport that lesson be learn and act on in a timely way . will the Government engage with I and Survivors against Terror on its call for a survivor ' charter , which would extend right to survivor and the family of victim ? my hon . friend make an important point . the Security Minister have meet and have regular discussion with survivor of terror . they raise serious concern about , for example , the way in which survivor of the Manchester Arena attack end up feel badly let down , and the additional support need in such case . we will continue to discuss the support that be need with those organisation . I trust that the Home Secretary agree that the courage show by the dance teacher and the member of the public who intervene should be recognise appropriately . what trouble I be that we seem to have a subtext here of say that if only that particular tick time - bomb have be successfully refer to Prevent , it could have stop he do what he do . assume that someone so committed to fanaticism would not respond to Prevent , will the Home Secretary share with the House what measure be in place to keep such terrible event from happen ? do terrorism prevention and investigation measure , for example , apply in a case like that ? the right hon . Member make an important point . those referral be three to four year before the attack , and multiple different agency have contact with Rudakubana , but there be a huge question about the power and intervention that be available . even if the scale of the risk and danger that he pose have be sufficiently identify , what could have be do ? that be one of the reason why the Government be determined to bring in a new power , a youth diversion order , to address some of the difficult case — particularly those involve teenager — and see what requirement might be put on young people in such case . we will bring forward legislation as part of the crime and police Bill . the barbaric murder of those three little girl in Southport be part of a grow problem of youngster fixate on violence and gore , as the Home Secretary say . that worrying phenomenon have be fuel by the rapid growth of website and social medium forum that promote and revel in such violence . can the Home Secretary confirm that the inquiry into Southport will look into exactly that danger promote by such website ? we will certainly ensure that that issue be clearly in the scope of the inquiry , which must consider why so many young people be draw into an obsession with violence and extremist activity , and what exactly be go wrong and why , so that we can take the action need across society to keep our child safe . the Home Secretary tell we that , last year alone , 162 people be refer to Prevent over concern relate to school massacre — a truly shocking and disturbing figure . how many of those people be currently in detention ? the hon . Member will know that a referral to Prevent can be for young people who may have express an interest in school massacre , as oppose to those who have commit a crime . the point of the Prevent programme be early intervention to take action prevent young people from commit crime . my view be that the power be not strong enough currently to prevent young people from commit crime or get draw into extremist violence . that be exactly why we need to introduce the youth diversion order — a strong power for the police to take action in these extremely serious case . it be important to note that this attacker be a terrorist . he have be charge under the Terrorism Act 2000 and the Biological Weapons Act 1974 . the man be a terrorist . the attack itself have not be label terrorism because of the lack of a clear ideological motive — that be a decision for the police and the CPS . will the Home Office look into how our legal framework might be update to recognise the full horror of act intend to terrorise ? my hon . friend be right . we need the legal framework to be up to date to ensure sufficient scope , power and sentencing be in place to deal with act that be intend to terrorise , even where there be no ideology . he be also right to say that this man have be charge under the Terrorism Act and have plead guilty to a terrorist offence , and I can confirm that he will be treat as a terrorist offender in prison . if the authority remain silent , bad people write the script . on 16 October 2021 , those authority , and then their political master , be frank about what have happen the previous day in Southend , and there be no riot . why be that different from this ? the right hon . member refer to the attack on Sir David Amess , who I regard as a friend , as I know he do — Sir David be a great loss to this House . the Government do not publish crucial information about , for example , the Prevent referral that have take place . a lot of information be not provide until the trial . in fact , this Government be go far in provide information after the trial than be provide in that case . I do not think that anyone should attempt to excuse people who throw brick and rock at police officer by say that it be something to do with the information they be provide with and when . they commit crime ; they need to take responsibility for those crime . we have hear from Merseyside police , the CPS and counter - terrorism police about the wide range of violent content that the accuse be access , include on genocide , and about his social media search for violent and fatal stabbing . I know that the Home Secretary cover some of this in her statement and in response to previous question , but what more should the social medium and search engine giant be do , first , to prevent our young people from access such content in the first place and , secondly , to take it down quickly from their site once they be aware of it ? my hon . friend make an important point . the thing about the social medium company be that they have incredibly sophisticated technology and resource . they know exactly how to target every single one of we online with thing in which we might be interested , and they use their algorithm in all kind of sophisticated way . they have the capability to do far more to identify this dangerous content and take action on it . I believe that they should use those capability , rather than row back from content moderation and reduce the responsible action that they take . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . constituent across Lagan Valley send their thought and prayer not just to the family of Elsie , Alice and Bebe , but to the community of Southport . something that have deeply concern I for a long time be the radicalisation of young people in particular . as the Home Secretary explicitly state , there be an online surge of young people become radicalise , include those who be interested in and look at content on violence against woman and terror - link activity . how will a lack of ideology be capture so that we can identify potential perpetrator ? what law can we pass in this House not only to stop social medium company profit , but to ensure that they be aware of such violent and terrorist content on their platform ? the hon . member be right to raise that issue . the director of MI5 have talk about how the security service be see far too many case of very young people be draw into poisonous online extremism , and 13 % of all those investigate for involvement in UK terrorism be now under 18 . that be a disturbing fact for we all . the hon . member be also right to say that we need to consider the complexity . some young people become radicalise around an ideology early on . other become obsess with violence , and still other may switch between different extreme idea and perspective , but all of they be at risk of become dangerous to community if they get draw down that extremist track , and if their idea get poison by thing that they see online . that be why the issue be so important , and be a central part of the inquiry . I thank the Home Secretary for update the House , and welcome the uncompromise inquiry that she and the Prime Minister have announce . I would like to ask about social medium and the digital information environment . I work in a technology company for a long time , and I concur with the Home Secretary ' s comment : the company that we be talk about know what be circulate online and what be get virality . after last summer , do she feel that she and the Prime Minister have the information that they need to make decision in real time in order to secure our online information environment ? my hon . friend make an important point . I do not think anyone would suggest that minister be in a position to make decision on individual case , but what we need be the right kind of framework . clearly , the Online Safety Act will put new structure and system in place . the Prime Minister make it clear this morning that we should not shy away from take any further action need to address this issue , because fundamentally , if it be impact the safety of our child , we need to act . the Prime Minister ' s denial in August that Rudakubana be be investigate for offence under the Terrorism Act 2006 do not protect the trial , because we find out the fact anyway when Rudakubana be charge in October . the same disclosure do not cause other trial , such as that of the Parsons Green tube bomber , to fail . I be not talk about the detail of Prevent referral , which the Home Secretary have mention in answer to similar question , but about the information that be disclose in October . if a jury know that before the trial , why could the Prime Minister not have tell the country the truth in August ? the hon . Member will know that investigation be carry out by the police . the Crown Prosecution Service decide what charge to bring , and how and when to bring they , base on the evidence it have gather . that be the british justice system . decision be make by the police and prosecutor , who be rightly independent of Ministers . I strongly believe that this independence , which be part of our british judicial tradition , must continue . we have hear that the murderer in Southport have a history of violence and a fascination with it , and be just 17 year old at the time of this horrific attack . there be no circumstance in which he should have be able to buy a knife . do the Home Secretary agree that we have to get to the bottom of how that deadly weapon end up in his hand , and ensure that teenager be unable to buy these weapon in the future ? my hon . friend be right : the perpetrator should never have be able to buy a knife online . it be really disturbing that despite all the case we have see in the past , it be still far too easy for young people to get access to knife online . that be why , through the policing and crime Bill , we will take action , include by ensure that executive of online company take responsibility for the check that need to take place . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . despite the attacker ' s three referral to Prevent , five referral to the local police force and multiple referral to multiple hub , we still do not protect Elsie , Alice and Bebe . we have fail they . we must ensure that this never happen again . do the Home Secretary agree that whoever the perpetrator be , the victim be always terrorise , and that an obsession with ideology may have be an underlie factor in why we miss this perpetrator ? should we not look again at the Shawcross recommendation on ideology obsession ? the hon . member be right that the Prevent learning review identify that in this case , the focus on ideology may have mean that some of the vulnerability to radicalisation be miss . we also have to recognise that case in which there be ideology be different from case in which there be not , and may require a different kind of response . the assessment of risk , and of the danger that a young person pose , may be the same , but the action that the state take may need to change , depend on what be drive that danger and risk . for too long , though , some of those mix - ideology case — those unclear case — may have be miss because we have not have sufficient focus on they . that focus be what the inquiry need . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , and of course , the victim and all those affect be very much in our thought and prayer . nothing we say should detract from the fact that the perpetrator have sole responsibility for these awful crime , but it be right to look at what happen beforehand . the Home Secretary have mention a few time the involvement of multiple agency and their warning . for I , that be one of the most concerning and shocking thing . how come so many agency be aware of the issue and raise concern ? this be not a lone wolf who pop out of nowhere . who do the Home Secretary think ultimately bear responsibility for manage this perpetrator ' s risk ? the hon . member ' s question get to the heart of the problem . he be right that the responsibility for this appalling and barbaric attack lie with the attacker , and he need to face the consequence . he have commit the most heinous crime . however , we have to ask question on behalf of the family . there should have be a network of responsible agency , and the inquiry need to look at why , ultimately , so many agency together fail to identify the scale of risk , and to take the action that be need . part of the challenge be that it can be too easy for each agency to think that somebody else be address a particular bit of the problem . there need to be a much strong approach to what happen between agency . that be what the inquiry must look at . I think the vast majority of the british people agree with the Government ' s independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , who have say repeatedly that when these horrific crime take place , more information need to be put out soon to avoid an information vacuum . however , that be in conflict with the need to avoid prejudice a fair trial . do the Home Secretary agree that it be incumbent on this House to find a way to overcome or reduce that conflict , so that we get more information soon ? in the world of social medium , there can be all sort of information online , but as the hon . Member rightly say , we have to make sure that justice be do . we have to make sure that a jury be not prejudice by information in such a way that a killer can walk free , but also that people can get answer and the crucial information that they need . the Law Commission be review the Contempt of Court Act , which date back to 1981 , but I know the hon . member recognise the importance of we follow the law in the meantime . we need to make sure that justice be do and , now that we have a verdict , that the family can find out what go wrong in this case and get the answer that they so badly need and deserve . I congratulate the Home Secretary on her proposal ; she have my full support in turn over every stone in look into this case , and I wholeheartedly agree with all the power she be bring forward . however , that be half of the story . she rightly talk about balance the risk of a criminal walking free , but we have to bear in mind the riot that happen across this country . will she consider conduct a review that look into the creation of a framework for how government talk about these issue in the medium , so that the approach be standardise and there be no political point - scoring across this Chamber ? at the heart of this issue be the public perception that information be withhold from they . we could then hold a review on the rioting , to make sure that there be no further riot , because there be no riot in October , when this information come out . there be a discrepancy there that need look at , and I would be grateful if the Home Secretary take up this matter . I point out that the violent disorder stop when people realise that they would face consequence for it , and when there be a clear police and criminal justice system response . there be no excuse for throw rock and brick at the police — the same police officer who have to deal with the most horrendous attack on those little child in Southport . it be really important that the inquiry ' s focus be on get the family of those child the answer that they need about what go wrong in this terrible case , not on try to excuse a bunch of thug who be throw rock and brick at the police — something for which there be no excuse at all . as we reflect on the horror of the murder of these three young girl , we all have many question , as do the public . will the inquiry ' s term of reference permit an answer to this question : how far be the inaction by the various agency influence by fear of disturb race or community relation ? be that a factor in the inaction ? we have hear that there be three ineffective referral to Prevent , and have hear of 162 other referral to Prevent . have the adequacy of the response to those referral be review ? I have introduce a new Prevent commissioner — Lord David Anderson be begin work as the interim commissioner right now — because there be no independent review of Prevent decision or process . that be a problem , because the decision that Prevent take be incredibly important . they need to be effective , and we need to make sure that standard be maintain . that be why we need an independent review . we have independent inspector of aspect of the work of other public service , such as police . we need an independent commissioner bring in to review not just this case , but similar case . on the scope of the inquiry , the Prime Minister make it clear this morning that this inquiry will follow the evidence wherever it take the inquiry , and no stone can go unturned . on what date be the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary make aware that Axel Rudakubana be in possession of ricin and an al - Qaeda training manual , and will the inquiry cover public communication after the murder ? minister be of course update throughout . the Home Office be advise about ricin in August , and we be advise about the document much later on in October . we make sure that the official Opposition be also brief . in the end , those decision and investigation be matter for the police on an operational basis . the tradition in this country be that we have operational independence for policing , and operationally independent decision make by the CPS . it be really sad that so many Opposition Members have choose to ask question about the timing of the release of information — they know that such issue be govern by the Contempt of Court Act , and that this be about provide justice for the family who lose their love one — rather than ask the serious question about why that terrible , horrific and barbaric act take place . I would just ask the hon . member , and other decide what issue they want to focus on , to think very seriously about what the most important issue be here , when so many life be lose . in her statement , the Home Secretary say , " let there be no doubt : responsibility for this outrage lie squarely with the perpetrator . " that be indubitably true , but I would argue that there be blood on the hand of the myriad very difficult to understand Government agency and quango that charge around in ever decrease circle , blame everybody else when something go wrong . will she commit to review every single drop or downgrade case on which Prevent fail to act appropriately , to avoid another heartbreaking catastrophe like this one ? we have announce two important thing today . the first be the inquiry , which need to go to the heart of what go wrong in this case — why so many agency know about this incredibly dangerous perpetrator who commit this barbaric act . the second be establish the new Prevent independent commissioner , who can review different case and ensure that the right approach have be take , that risk be be identify and , frankly , that action be be take . what disturb I about some of the information — particularly the knife crime issue identify in this case — be that strong enough action be not take . to keep people safe , we need to ensure that such action be take . I thank the Home Secretary very much for her statement , her tone and her well - choose word . I think every one of we in the Chamber be heartbroken for the family and their loss . the trust of local community be damage by the information that be release , and I believe a lesson about transparency must be learn . can the Home Secretary outline how the Government will ensure that trust be rebuild in the system , that misinformation can be correct and that such correction be trust in the future ? the hon . member be right to raise the important issue of trust . the police and criminal justice system be rightly independent of Government and of politic , but there need to be trust in the work they do . this Government have make it part of our mission to restore confidence in policing , which I think have be undermine for far too long , and to stand up for the rule of law . we must defend the different part of the justice system , which rightly play different role , otherwise they will not provide justice for people in the future . crucially , to ensure that there be trust , we need to get to the truth about what happen in this shocking , terrible case : what go wrong and why a dangerous man be able to commit this terrible crime . above all , all of we should keep in our mind and in our heart the three little child , their family and all those who have be affect by this truly appalling attack . we must ensure that we get they the truth and answer , and do everything that we can to prevent such terrible crime . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . Bill present Arms Trade ( Inquiry and Suspension ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Zarah Sultana present a Bill to make provision for an inquiry into the end use of arm sell to foreign state to determine whether they have be use in violation of international law ; to immediately suspend the sale of arm to foreign state where it can not be demonstrate that arm sell will not be use in violation of international law ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 March , and to be print ( Bill 164 ) . Marine Protected Areas ( Bottom Trawling ) ( England ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to prohibit the practice of bottom trawling in Marine Protected Areas in England , and for connected purpose . it be a privilege to speak on a topic that have cross - party support and build on the excellent work lead by my right hon . and hon . friend the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Ministers to put nature on the road to recovery and address the climate crisis . this government and this Parliament be the greenest of my lifetime , and I be proud to be a member for a party with such a distinguished history of lead on environmental protection . this Bill offer an opportunity for a fair , green future , and I be grateful for support for the Bill from colleague across the House . it be important to remember that protect our ocean and marine protect area be not only a labour legacy , but a Yorkshire one . in 2009 , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds South ( Hilary Benn ) , the then Environment Secretary , spearhead the passage of the Marine and Coastal Access Act , a landmark Act that establish a network of marine protect area to safeguard vital marine habitat , specie and ecosystem . fifteen year later , with a new Labour Government in place , we have the opportunity to strengthen protection for these area even far . before I lie out my case to the House , I must address the obvious question : why be the MP for Leeds North West , a landlocked constituency in the heart of west Yorkshire , bring forward a ten - minute rule Bill to ban bottom trawling in our marine protect area ? it be a fair question ; after all , up in Leeds our close encounter with marine life might be spot a trout in the River Wharfe or enjoy fish and chip on the drive back from Whitby . yet the health of our sea be not just an issue for coastal constituency ; it be a national responsibility . the ecosystem in our water play a crucial role in regulate the planet ' s climate , absorb carbon dioxide , and support biodiversity that impact life far beyond our shore . from sheltered sea loch to wild open water , from seaweed bed to deepwater coral , the UK ' s coast and sea be extraordinary . they be home to an astonishing variety of wildlife , include dolphin , whale , shark , seal , puffin and deep - sea coral reef . they be also vital to our economy and community , particularly our essential fishing industry , as well as our tourism , shipping and the grow renewable energy sector . we be an island nation and we be never more than 70 mile from the sea here in the UK . whether it be pollution , habitat destruction or the impact of climate change , we Brits be deeply connected to our coastal heritage . but while our sea work hard for we , they face grow pressure , and bottom trawling be one of the most destructive practice of all . for member unfamiliar with destructive bottom trawling , it involve drag heavy net and metalwork across our seabed , destroy fragile ecosystem and habitat that take decade or even century to recover . as a fellow member so aptly put it to I , it be like rip up an orchard to pick an apple . just one or two trawl over an area can decimate the seabed for up to five year . alarmingly , this be happen right now across our marine protect area — zone specifically designate to safeguard and recover biodiversity . my Bill build on previous work to ban this destructive practice . currently , only 5 % of the UK ' s marine protect area have a ban on it . my argument in support of the Bill be threefold : first , the british public overwhelmingly expect a ban ; secondly , our small fishing business be suffer without a ban ; and thirdly , it be crucial for the ongoing health of ecosystem in marine protect area and the broad protection of the environment , and the natural world in which we , in Britain , take great pride . on public support , research from Oceana show that the measure have significant backing , with eight in 10 UK adult in favour of ban destructive bottom trawl in marine protect area . what be particularly striking be the level of misunderstand around the issue . when survey , the vast majority of people - — around 64 % — mistakenly believe such a ban be already in place . many of the individual I have speak to in recent week share this misconception and , frankly , it be no surprise : the term " protect " in marine protect area naturally lead people to assume that harmful activity such as destructive bottom trawling be prohibit . the reality , however , be quite the opposite : these fragile ecosystem remain exposed to one of the most destructive form of industrial fishing , which devastate habitat and wildlife . secondly , on our hard - work british fisherman and woman , especially the small - scale fishery that have be at the heart of our coastal community for generation , let we be clear : they be not the one drag heavy net across the seabed , destroy delicate ecosystem . the culprit be industrial - scale operation and supertrawler that prioritise profit over sustainability , leave our own small - scale fisher to bear the brunt of their action . this be David versus Goliath — a fight to protect the lifeblood of our coastal community from the destructive might of industrial fishing giant . in 2023 just 10 fishing vessel over 20 metre in length be responsible for more than a quarter of the destructive bottom trawling . none of the 10 vessel be from the UK . I will not pretend to be an expert on the fishing industry , but Bally Philp , a fisherman with decade of experience , put it well : he describe how " small - scale fisher be under a lot of pressure everywhere , mostly from industrial fishery " . he say that one of the thing that impact quite heavily on small - scale fisher be a highly degraded ecosystem , because many small fisher be only viable in a healthy , productive ecosystem . Bally Philp speak for many in our fishery who want strong protection that ensure their livelihood be not sacrifice for the short - term gain of large industrial operator . protect our 178 english marine protect area from destructive bottom trawling be not only about safeguard marine life ; it be about secure a sustainable future for the community who depend on our sea for their way of life . lastly , and most importantly , we need to protect and restore our marine protect area for both climate and nature . bottom trawling be not just destructive and emission - heavy ; it reduce carbon sequestration . our ocean be unsung climate hero . a series of recent report from the World Wide Fund for Nature , the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds , and Wildlife Trusts have find that the UK ' s seabed play a quiet yet crucial role in carbon sequestration , store up to 13 million tonne , nearly three time the amount capture by UK forest . this be not inevitable in England , and we do not need to imagine the positive impact of the Bill . we have already see the benefit of ban bottom trawling in some of our marine protect area , such as Lyme bay on England ' s south coast . in 2008 , a partial ban on destructive fishing practice be introduce . this be later expand to 312 sq km — about 120 square mile — through overlap conservation effort . the result have be extraordinary . the seabed have begin to recover , with coral reef like pink sea fan regrow , scallop number increase , and specie such as black bream return to the area . within just a decade , the number of specie in the protect zone increase by almost 40 % , compare with a 5 % decline outside it . local fisherman , such as Matt Toms , have witness these change at first hand . since destructive bottom trawling be ban , he have observe a lot more fish in the area , include black bream breeding in the bay once again . this be proof that protect our marine ecosystem benefit not only the environment but also the community who rely on it . Lyme bay be live evidence that with the right action , recovery be possible , and this and every other measure should be guide by the science . sometimes people fail to act because they can not see what be go on beneath the ocean . that can not be say of our national hero Sir David Attenborough and I thank he for his year of service document our planet . I be excited to hear that he be premiere a new film that draw attention to the damage we have cause and the opportunity to humanity , in particular fishing community , of well manage and protect ocean . I also thank the Blue Marine Foundation , Oceana , WWF and many other activist across the country for their work . to close , as I have say previously , I come into politic from a background in climate and nature . I proudly campaign for the Climate Change Act in 2008 , a landmark Act bring in by the last Labour Government . it teach I from the outset of my career what could be achieve through a sustained , steadfast commitment to a cause . that Act have succeed because of its pragmatism and cross - party consensus . for that reason , I be proud of the cross - party nature of this Bill and its co - signatory . the implementation of this Bill be a matter of common sense : for the small fishery of this country ; for the wildlife in our marine protect area ; and for all of we who depend on a healthy planet . this Bill be about real action on climate and nature , and I hope colleague will join I in seize this opportunity . question put and agree to . order , that Katie White , Anna Gelderd , Mr Toby Perkins , Ms Polly Billington , Alistair Strathern , Luke Murphy , Sarah Champion , Aphra Brandreth , Mr Andrew Mitchell , Wera Hobhouse and Carla Denyer present the Bill . Katie White accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June , and to be print ( Bill 165 ) . arbitration Bill [ Lords ] Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standin Order no . 59 ( 2 ) ) , that the Arbitration Bill [ Lords ] shall no long stand refer to a Second Reading Committee . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . Armed Forces Commissioner Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Defence Committee on 14 January 2025 , on the work of the Service Complaints Ombudsman , HC 626 , and correspondence between the Defence Committee and the Secretary of State for Defence , on the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , report to the House on 14 November 2024 and 14 January 2025 . ] New Clause 1 - applicability to prospective recruit " in this Act , any reference to ' service personnel ' or ' person subject to service law ' include people go through the recruitment process to join any branch of the armed force . " — ( Helen Maguire . ) this new clause would allow those currently go through the recruitment process to join the armed force to use the Armed Forces Commissioner for its intend purpose . bring up , and read the first time . 2 . 30 pm I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — Commissioner ' s interaction with Veterans Commissioners — " within one year of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish detail of — ( a ) whether or how the Commissioner will work with the National Veterans Commissioner , the Scottish Veterans Commissioner , the Veterans Commissioner for Wales , the Northern Ireland Veterans Commissioner and the Chairman of the Independent Commission for Reconciliation & Information Recovery ; ( b ) whether or how the Commissioner and Secretary of State will ensure that veteran receive appropriate and necessary support . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to make clear how the Commissioner will work with the Veterans Commissioners and related body . amendment 7 , in clause 1 , page 2 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) the Commissioner must — ( a ) uphold and give due regard to the principle and commitment of the Armed Forces Covenant when carry out its function ; ( b ) monitor and report on compliance with the principle and commitment of the Armed Forces Covenant in all area of its responsibility . " this amendment would require the Commissioner to uphold and abide by the principle of the Armed Forces Covenant when carry out its function . amendment 8 , page 2 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) the Commissioner shall operate independently from — ( a ) the Ministry of Defence ; ( b ) the Armed Forces , include the chain of command ; and ( c ) any other government body ; and shall be free from any influence of interference in the exercise of the Commissioner ' s function . " this amendment would require the Commissioner to be independent from the Government , the Armed Forces and any interference in the carrying out of their duty . amendment 6 , page 2 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) the Secretary of State will , within 6 month of the passing of this Act , publish an intended time frame for — ( a ) the appointment of the Commissioner ; ( b ) the abolishing of the office of the Service Complaints Ombudsman ; ( c ) the commencement of operation of the office of the Commissioner . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to state when they intend to appoint a Commissioner and get the office of the Commissioner operational . amendment 9 , in clause 4 , page 2 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a ' general service welfare matter ' may include issue relate to the provision of pension and death in service benefit to serve and former member of the armed force and their dependant . " the amendment would enable the Commissioner to include matter relate to pension and other such benefit , include death in service benefit , in their investigation of service welfare matter . amendment 10 , page 2 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a ' general service welfare matter ' may include issue relate to the wellbeing of , and provision of support to , the child , family and other dependant of serve and former member of the armed force , include but not limit to — ( a ) the provision and operation of the Continuity of Education Allowance ; ( b ) the provision of Special Educational need tuition ; and ( c ) the maintenance of service family ' accommodation . " this amendment would enable the Commissioner to include matter relate to the wellbeing of , and provision of support to , the child , family and other dependant of serve and former member of the armed force in the Commissioner ' s investigation of service welfare matter . amendment 1 , page 3 , line 31 , after " mean " insert " kinship carer and the family member of deceased service personnel as well as other " . this amendment would include kinship carer and the family member of deceased service personnel in the definition of " relevant family member " . amendment 2 , page 3 , line 35 , at end insert — " 340IAA Commissioner support for minority group within service personnel ( 1 ) when investigate general service welfare matter under section 340IA , the Commissioner must consider the specific experience of minority group within service personnel , include but not limit to — ( a ) female ; ( b ) bame ( c ) non - UK ; and ( d ) LGBT + service personnel . ( 2 ) the Commissioner may investigate service welfare matter unique to one or more of these group of service personnel . ( 3 ) the Commissioner must maintain up - to - date evidence on the experience of these group of service personnel and develop robust community engagement mechanism to identify and address issue specific to these group . ( 4 ) the Commissioner must establish a formal network of representation to enable the view and concern of these group of service personnel to be communicate to the Commissioner . ( 5 ) the Commissioner must publish an annual report outline — ( a ) the issue face and concern raise by these group of service personnel ; ( b ) the action take by the Commissioner to address identify issue ; ( c ) the progress make in improve condition for these group of service personnel . " this amendment would require the Commissioner to take specific action to consider and address welfare issue face service personnel from minority group . amendment 11 , page 5 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the report must include the Commissioner ' s view on whether the relevant general service welfare issue have have , or may have , an effect on the retention of armed force personnel ; and " . this amendment would require a report by the Commissioner on a general service welfare matter to include the Commissioner ' s view on whether the issue affect the retention of armed force personnel . amendment 4 , page 6 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) after section 340o ( annual report on system for deal with service complaint ) insert — ' 340OA annual report on the work of the Commissioner ( 1 ) the Commissioner must , for each calendar year , prepare a report cover — ( a ) the action take by the Commissioner to promote and improve the welfare of person subject to service law and relevant family member ; ( b ) the initiative undertake by the Commissioner to enhance public awareness of welfare issue face by person subject to service law and relevant family member ; ( c ) the resource use by the Commissioner in fulfil its function , and any further resource require . ( 2 ) on receive a report under this section , the Secretary of State must lay it before Parliament promptly and , in any event , before the end of 30 sit day begin with the day on which the report be receive . " sit day " mean a day on which both Houses of Parliament sit . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may exclude from any report lay under this section any material the publication of which the Secretary of State consider — ( a ) would be against the interest of national security ; ( b ) might jeopardise the safety of any person . ( 4 ) with three month of the receipt of any report prepare by the Commissioner under this section , the Secretary of State must publish a response to the report which include an overview of any measure take or plan to be take to address any resource issue identify by the Commissioner . ' " this amendment would require the Commissioner to publish an annual report on the work it have do to improve the welfare of service personnel and public awareness of welfare issue face by service personnel and their family . amendment 5 , in schedule 1 , page 8 , leave out line 15 and 16 and insert — " 3 a relevant parliamentary select committee will hold a pre - appointment hearing with the Secretary of State ' s preferred candidate for Commissioner . 3A the select committee may hold a confirmatory vote on the Secretary of State ' s preferred candidate for Commissioner . 3b where a select committee have express a negative opinion on the appointment of the Secretary of State ' s preferred candidate for Commissioner , the Secretary of State may not proceed with the appointment of that candidate without appear before the select committee to address the concern raise by the committee . 3c if the select committee maintain its negative opinion follow the further appearance of the Secretary of State , the Secretary of State may not proceed with the appointment of that candidate . 3d where a select committee have express a positive opinion on the appointment of the Secretary of State ' s preferred candidate for Commissioner , include after a further appearance before the committee of the Secretary of State , the Secretary of State may recommend the appointment of the candidate to his Majesty . 3e the Commissioner be to be appoint by his Majesty on the recommendation of the Secretary of State . " this amendment would mean that the Commissioner can only be appoint after appear before a relevant select committee and obtain its approval . amendment 3 , page 10 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that the financial and practical assistance provide to the Commissioner be appropriate and sufficient to allow the Commissioner to carry out its function . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to provide adequate financial and practical assistance to the Commissioner to enable it to carry out its function . this be an be an important Bill , and one that I and my liberal Democrat colleague broadly welcome . however , we believe that it must go far . before turn to the detail of our propose change , I want to acknowledge the significance of this legislation and the opportunity it present to deliver meaningful change for the armed force community . I thank the Minister and his team for all the hard work they have put into bring the Bill to the House . the Armed Forces Commissioner as propose in the Bill will serve as an independent and vital advocate for service personnel and their family , report directly to Parliament . the role be long overdue . for too long , service personnel and their family have feel neglect , overlook and unsupported . the commissioner ' s remit will include address a wide range of issue from unacceptable behaviour and substandard housing to equipment concern . the power to visit defence site unannounced and commission report be particularly welcome , as be the consolidation of the Service Complaints Ombudsman ' s responsibility into this more robust role . the liberal Democrats welcome those provision as step in the right direction , but step alone be not enough . deliver a fair deal for the armed force community be not just morally right ; it be a strategic imperative . recruitment and retention challenge directly impact on national security . we can not allow systemic neglect to erode the morale , trust and effectiveness of those who defend our nation . time and again , report from review such as the Haythornthwaite and Atherton review have highlight the failure of previous government , which include failure to provide decent housing and support service family adequately or to tackle issue such as discrimination and sexual harassment . those be not new revelation ; they be systemic problem that require a new approach . the former Conservative Government fail to deliver for our armed force . the Liberal Democrats will continue to call for a fair deal include strengthen the armed force covenant , ensure that service accommodation be fit for purpose and deliver for those who put their life on the line for our country . the Bill be an opportunity to begin address those issue comprehensively , and I be proud to propose amendment that would have it deliver for all member of the armed force community . new clause 1 seek to extend the commissioner ' s remit to include individual go through the recruitment process . at present , the Bill exclude those individual , but recruit can face challenge during that initial formative stage . recruit can be ask to stay on basis overnight , and we can not ignore that they may encounter issue during such trip . it be essential to understand those issue to retain recruit , as many currently drop out , which we assume be due to the long wait that they be currently experience but may stem from issue that we be unaware of . the new clause would ensure that support be available from the very start of their journey into the armed force , not just after they sign on the dotted line . amendment 1 would address another critical omission . the Bill currently leave the definition of " relevant family member " to the Government , which create ambiguity and risk exclusion . the amendment would ensure that kinship carer and the family member of deceased service personnel be explicitly include . those group face unique challenge , and it be vital that they be not leave behind . the creation of the Armed Forces Commissioner be a positive development , but we need to ensure that the role be truly independent , adequately resource and hold to account for its action . several key issue must be address to guarantee the commissioner ' s effectiveness . for the commissioner to function properly , they must have adequate financial and practical support . without sufficient resource , they will struggle to fulfil their vital responsibility . amendment 3 would place a direct duty on the Secretary of State to ensure that the commissioner ' s office be properly resource — both financially and practically — to carry out its work effectively . that would ensure that the role would not be hamper by a lack of support . additionally , transparency and accountability be essential . if the commissioner be to be a meaningful advocate for service personnel and their family , their work must be open to scrutiny . amendment 4 would require the commissioner to publish annual report to Parliament , ensure that their effort be transparent and that they can be hold accountable for their action . such report would allow Parliament , the public and service personnel to understand the welfare issue face by service personnel and their family . to safeguard the commissioner ' s independence and credibility far , amendment 5 would have their appointment subject to pre - appointment scrutiny by a parliamentary Select Committee . that process would allow Members of Parliament to ensure that the good person for the job be appoint . this person need to be independent of Government influence and focus on the need of the armed force community . such additional scrutiny would help safeguard the integrity of the role and ensure that it remain focused on the need of the armed force community . far , the armed force covenant should be central to the commissioner ' s work . the covenant be a fundamental framework that guide how we treat our service personnel and their family , ensure fairness and respect in all aspect of their life . amendment 7 would enshrine the covenant ' s principle in the commissioner ' s remit , ensure that those value remain at the heart of their mission . give that the covenant be at the heart of how we support our armed force , it should be explicitly include in the Bill . it be essential that we do not delay put the Bill into action . that be why amendment 6 would require the Secretary of State to publish a timeframe for the appointment of the commissioner within six month of the passing of the Act . our armed force and their family need this service urgently and can not wait around for year for action to be take . follow the damn finding of the Atherton and Etherton report , it be clear that minority group include woman , ethnic minority , LGBT + personnel and non - UK national face systemic challenge within the armed force . the Atherton report , publish in 2021 , focus on the experience of woman in the armed force . four thousand female service personnel and veteran complete a survey to inform the inquiry , and shockingly 62 % of respondent have be victim of bullying , discrimination , harassment or sexual assault during their service , sometimes at the hand of senior officer . it be unacceptable that woman who serve in the armed force too often face sexual harassment or misogyny . that issue have not be adequately address , reflect a lack of moral courage within part of the armed force , despite good intention across the service . amendment 2 would require the commissioner to take specific action to consider and address issue face service personnel from minority group : not only female service personnel but black , asian and minority ethnic personnel , LGBT + personnel and those not from the UK . that would be back by annual reporting to ensure transparency and accountability . that be essential to ensure that all voice be hear and no one in the armed force community be overlook . the Bill must be part of a wide effort to improve the quality of life of service personnel and their family . housing , for instance , remain a persistent issue . decent housing be not a privilege but a right , and service family deserve home that be safe , comfortable and fit for purpose . just last week in the House , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) table an amendment to the Renters ' Rights Bill that would have extend the decent home standard to Ministry of Defence service family accommodation , ensure that all member of the armed force would have the living standard they deserve . I be beyond disappointment when the Government vote it down . the Bill represent progress , but it be not the finished article . although I do not wish to press new clause 1 to a vote , our propose change be about fairness , accountability and do right by all those who serve and their family . let we seize this moment to deliver real and lasting change for the armed force community . they have give so much for we ; it be time that we give back to they . I rise primarily to address amendment 5 , just refer to by the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , which would directly impact the role of the Defence Committee , which I have the honour and privilege of chairing . amendment 5 would enshrine in law an enhance version of Select Committee pre - appointment scrutiny . that be significant because , in most case , such scrutiny be a matter of political agreement rather than legislation . the Government have commit to pre - appointment scrutiny by the Defence Committee for the preferred candidate for Armed Forces Commissioner . that mirror the exist arrangement for the Service Complaints Ombudsman , which be the only defence - relate post currently subject to that form of scrutiny . the Defence Committee last conduct such a hearing in December 2024 for the current ombudsman . it be likely that our scrutiny of the Armed Forces Commissioner candidate will be both our first and final pre - appointment hearing in this Parliament . let I clarify the purpose of pre - appointment scrutiny . it aim to examine the quality of ministerial decision making and appointment , assure the public that key public appointment be merit - base , demonstrate the candidate ' s independence of mind and bolster the appointee ' s legitimacy in their role . it be crucial to understand that this process do not replicate the recruitment process — we can not assess the candidate pool or suggest alternative . our primary task be to evaluate how the preferred candidate perform under public scrutiny . do the Chair of the Defence Committee agree that it be a question not merely of scrutiny but of approval ? if the Committee , which he so ably chair , decide that the person bring before they be not fit for that role , be it not up to the Secretary of State to find somebody else who can obtain the approval of Committee ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . he have make a massive impact on the working of the Defence Committee , of which he be a member . I will directly address the issue that he raise very shortly — patience be a virtue . in the Public Bill Committee , the Minister for the Armed Forces state that our scrutiny should be vigorous and thorough . I assure the House that , give appropriate time and opportunity , it will be exactly that . the Minister also express expectation in Committee for our scrutiny to go above and beyond the current process . I seek clarity on that point : how do the Government envisage the Defence Committee exceed the current process without procedural change ? I would appreciate it if the Minister could elaborate on that . do the Government have specific proposal to enable we to go above and beyond ? my second question for the Government be about implementation — the subject of amendment 6 . follow a pre - appointment hearing , the Defence Committee will recommend either appoint or reject the preferred candidate . for this process to be meaningful , the implementation plan must account for the possibility , however remote , of the Secretary of State face a negative Committee opinion , as the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) have just allude to . the Service Complaints Ombudsman have inform we that , under current legislation , casework processing halt without an ombudsman in post . we must avoid a scenario where reject a candidate would so severely impact service personnel , the ombudsman team and the broad transition that approval would become the only viable option . I seek assurance that this consideration be already part of implementation planning , so I hope that the Minister will elaborate on that point . the ombudsman also raise broad transition concern in her evidence to the Defence Committee just last week . I trust that the Minister be aware of these issue and be address they seriously . other amendment address the commissioner ' s independence , which the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell allude to , minority group experience in the armed force and the commissioner ' s remit . these echo question that our Committee have raise with the Secretary of State in our publish correspondence . I hope that the Government will carefully consider these point , regardless of whether they accept the amendment . I eagerly await the Minister ' s response to my two question : how do he expect the Defence Committee to go above and beyond the current pre - appointment scrutiny process , and will he assure the House that the implementation plan accommodate the possibility of need to extend the recruitment process , and will not be put at risk if the Defence Committee recommend against appoint a candidate ? I stand to speak to amendment 2 table by my hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) . as the Member of Parliament for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe , I be proud to represent a constituency with a deep and endure military history . it be home to Brecon barrack , the headquarters of the British Army in Wales , and 160th ( Welsh ) Brigade , alongside the Sennybridge training area , where thousand of british service member train in the Brecon Beacons . my constituency be also home to a vibrant nepalese community make up of former Gurkha soldier and their family — an integral part of our community ' s fabric . Gurkhas , renowne across the world for their bravery , professionalism and humility , have call the Brecon area home for over 50 year . they settle here during their distinguished service in the British Army and have since become an invaluable pillar of our local society . in fact , Brecon be now proudly twin with Dhampus in Nepal , symbolise the bond between our two nation . however , it be the past treatment of Gurkhas in the UK that compel I to support this amendment . despite their service to the United Kingdom , the Gurkhas have face significant discrimination for many decade . many will remember the Gurkha justice campaign , which gain momentum thank to the tireless effort of Dame Joanna Lumley and the support of the Liberal Democrats under Nick Clegg . through that campaign , a crucial parliamentary vote be win to grant all Gurkha veteran the right to reside in the UK , despite opposition from the Labour Government of the time . however , it be not only residency right on which the Gurkhas face discrimination . they face inadequate support after leave active service , receive less pay than their british counterpart for the same job , and many be deprive of fair pension . even today , veteran who serve before 1997 continue to struggle for equal recognition and treatment . it be my firm belief that amendment 2 — especially the call for the Armed Forces Commissioner to produce annual report on the challenge face by specific group and to establish mechanism for community engagement — will help ensure that no group ever again have to suffer injustice like the Gurkhas do . I urge all member to join I in support this vital amendment . I rise primarily to talk about amendment 2 , table by the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) . it be an honour to serve on the Bill Committee . I would have speak to the amendment have it be table in Committee — I think a timetabling issue mean that it could not be . there be already a public sector equality duty under the Equality Act 2010 that would apply to the commissioner . when the commissioner undertake their report , they will be bind by that duty to have due regard to the different minority group that form the armed force and their family . more specific thematic report about issue face by minority in the armed force ought to be a matter for the commissioner to decide . as someone with a disability , I be perturb by the absence of disabled people from the list of minority that be cite . that be the problem when amendment be table with a prescriptive list of different minority group : some can be miss out , and some can be make to feel that their concern might be more value than other . it be not completely incompatible with service in the armed force to have a disability — clearly , some physical disability make service on the frontline difficult , but there be other role that people legally define or self - identify as have a disability might be able to serve in . indeed , the most famous admiral in the Royal Navy ' s history be Horatio Nelson , who have two disability : he have one arm and one eye . it be unfortunate to have go for a prescriptive listing , and unnecessary , for the reason that I set out at the start of my remark . I will not detain the House with my take on the other amendment , as I be sure other hon . member will wish to come in on they . however , my general assessment would be that the amendment that have be table be well intentione but unnecessary , because the Bill already deal with the concern they raise . it be good to see the Armed Forces Commissioner put on a statutory basis , and to see the function set out and see how the staff , though perhaps not directly recruit , can be provide for the commissioner . all that be good , but it cause I to ask why , if we be make that provision for the serve member of our armed force , be we not make a parallel statutory provision for our veteran ? why be it right to have a statutory basis for the Armed Forces Commissioner , but not for the various veteran commissioner ? surely , if it be right for serve member , it must equally be right to have a statutory basis set out the function and ensure staff provision for the veteran commissioner . I take the case of the part of the United Kingdom that I know good : in Northern Ireland , we have a part - time , term - appoint veteran commissioner for two day a week , effectively , with two staff second from the Northern Ireland Office , who be charge with look after all the interest of the very many thousand of veteran that we unsurprisingly have in Northern Ireland . I ask again , if it be right to have a commissioner on a statutory basis for serve soldier , why be that not the case for veteran ? it would be not only a significant step forward in itself , but a significant nod to how we value our veteran community if we be to give they equality of treatment on this issue . I think that be very important . without the role be on a statutory basis , a part - time , term - appoint veteran commissioner with seconded staff have his hand tie behind his back , frankly . in Northern Ireland , because this government be go to repeal the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , we be move back into a phase where we may see many veteran from incident 50 year ago drag through our court . we have a veteran commissioner with no standing to intervene in the multiple judicial review that take place on those issue and no standing to take any official line on any of that . if we be to put the veteran commissioner on a statutory basis , with the available funding , there would be a role to be perform — and not just on that specific issue , but perhaps if there be a challenging judicial that touch on veteran ' issue . why should the veteran commissioner not be a notify and intervene party in such proceeding ? I think he should . do the hon . and learn Gentleman share the concern that the staff of the Northern Ireland veteran commissioner be appoint by the Northern Ireland Office , as be the commissioner ? do he agree that the commissioner have the freedom , independence and ability to challenge the Government with force and vigour , and without have to continually look over their shoulder at what may be perceive as oversight from the NIO , would actually strengthen that role ? I absolutely agree . it be one of the strength of the Bill that it purport to give independence to the Armed Forces Commissioner , but that mean there be all the more need for the veteran commissioner to have the same independence . all the veteran commissioner have be two staff , whom he do not choose — not that there be anything wrong with those staff ; they be very good . however , they be not appoint by his office ; they be hand - pick by the NIO and second to he . if all he have be two staff he have not choose , it create the wrong perception , and very often that be enough to do damage to an office . I therefore take the opportunity of this debate to say that what we be do for the Armed Forces Commissioner be good , but let we mirror it in what we do for our veteran . the relationship between the Armed Forces Commissioner and veteran crop up several time in Committee , and I commend new clause 2 , on this subject , to the hon . and learn Gentleman . he will know that the former Northern Ireland veteran commissioner recently resign in part because he have concern about the constraint on his independence to carry out his role , which concern member on the Conservative Benches . do that concern the hon . and learn Gentleman as well ? it do . when a former Member of this House with Army experience , Mr Danny Kinahan , be appoint veteran commissioner , great expectation be place on his shoulder . sadly , as the right hon . Gentleman say , among the reason proffer for leave his role , Mr Kinahan state that he feel his freedom of action be impinge on by the Northern Ireland Office . be that right or be that wrong , the perception that such an office holder would have those restraint place on they do untold damage to that office . as I have in the past , I pay tribute to Mr Kinahan for his service in that role . I also wish well his recently appoint successor , Mr David Johnstone , whom I have the privilege of meeting last week . I trust that as he take forward the work of represent veteran , he will find himself unrestrained . however , this Government could put all that beyond doubt by put the veteran commissioner on the same statutory footing as the Armed Forces Commissioner . I join the hon . and learn Gentleman in pay tribute to Danny Kinahan ; as a Minister who have some dealing with he , I would certainly say he do a very good job indeed . I wish his successor all the very good . will the hon . and learn Gentleman acknowledge that the previous Government actually go one step far by appoint a Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs of Cabinet rank — a very experienced individual — which this Government have fail to replicate ? that be true . however , they fail to take the step I be now advocate of put the veteran commissioner on a statutory footing . this government can go one well and do the right thing for veteran , and I trust that they will . I do support new clause 2 ; I think it be a step in the right direction , but it be not enough . we need to offer our retire serviceman the facility we be offer our serve serviceman . the Ulster Unionist party would support new clause 2 . I , too , pay tribute to my predecessor as Ulster Unionist MP for South Antrim , Mr Kinahan , for the work that he do in this place and continue to do for veteran . I also wish David Johnstone well . the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) make a point about the position of Veterans Minister . do the hon . and learn Gentleman agree that there be an opportunity for the Veterans Minister to be responsible for appoint the veteran commissioner for Northern Ireland , rather than the NIO , and that there may be a segregation of perception with regard to some of the concern that our veteran community would have ? that be a fair point . in truth , our veteran community , as they see some of their brother face historic investigation , align the genesis and support for that investigation with the NIO . therefore , it certainly would be well , both in presentation and in reality , if there be that distance between the veteran commissioner and the NIO . do the hon . and learn Gentleman agree that it be to the discredit of the opposition that they do not even have a shadow Veterans Minister who could bring up the issue he be raise ? if there be a failing on the Opposition Benches , then all the great opportunity and need for the Government to make good on that . I trust that they will do that . I be not here to mediate between the two side of this House ! for the record , I be the shadow Veterans Minister . I be the shadow Armed Forces Minister and I do a bit of procurement on the side as well . we do take veteran very seriously on the conservative Benches , but , as I will say later on , if I be lucky enough to catch your eye , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be not sure the Government do . I will leave the two side of the House to sort out their difference . all I be interested in be that the veteran in my community have the good opportunity and the good service . with the good will in the world , yes , we have , and have have , good veteran commissioner , but they can not do the job so long as their hand be tie behind their back . let we unleash they and see a basis on which they can properly perform their function . I would like to put forward my strong support for the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill . this legislation mark a significant step forward in ensure that our armed force personnel receive the care and support they deserve . as the Member of Parliament for Stafford , I be acutely aware of the challenge face by many of our service personnel and veteran . in my constituency , about 5 . 5 % of resident be veteran , in addition to just under 1 , 000 serve personnel . for year , we have need a national focus on the need of serve personnel . by establish an independent voice to investigate welfare matter , we can ensure that serve personnel have a dedicated champion who be able to bring their concern to the forefront . I be very pleased that the Bill will address long - stand issue in the current complaint process by transfer power from the Service Complaints Ombudsman for the Armed Forces to the new commissioner . that will provide serve personnel and their family with a much - need avenue to address their grievance . that will make a huge difference for some of my constituent . I know that the Government be laser - focused on support our serve personnel and their family , and that this be only one step in our plan to change the life of those who serve and who have serve , and of their family . I want to speak briefly to amendment 2 , to which my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) speak early , which specify that the commissioner must engage with certain group . I would have think that to be expect as part of the role , so specify they , as he rightly point out , make the mistake of sometimes miss group . I suggest that there be no need to divide the House on this issue , as it would be expect of any commissioner . the Bill be about much more than policy and procedure . it be about recognise the immense sacrifice make by our service personnel , and provide they with the support they deserve and a healthy culture in which to serve our country . I commend the Government for take that step for all regiment across the country — not just those base in Stafford . I urge all member to support this vital legislation for our serve soldier and serve personnel . it be only by support they that we can support the veteran of the future . it be a pleasure to serve on the Bill Committee and to have the opportunity to hear from representative of military charity and armed force family organisation , as well as from the current Service Complaints Ombudsman for the Armed Forces . I have also have the chance to discuss the Bill and the propose amendment with representative of our armed force community in my constituency of Colchester , which be home to 16 Air Assault Brigade Combat Team and many veteran ' organisation . I also raise the Bill with the many people I meet on fantastically insightful visit to Army facility around the country as a member of the armed force parliamentary scheme — I thoroughly recommend that scheme to other member — and today , I have the pleasure of meet e50 K , a defence - lead community interest company support armed force family navigate the challenge of service and civilian life . there be a significant opportunity for the Bill to create a positive step change in the relationship between the defence community and the organisation currently in place to support it . my conversation with the various group suggest that the current situation be that for advocacy , policy and complaint , there be multiple restriction on what issue can be raise and how they can be raise . there be a need to change the current mindset of concern within the defence community about raise an issue without experience repercussion in term of career progression and the chain of command . regardless of whether that be the reality , it be the perception of many service family . the Armed Forces Commissioner will change that by create a new chance for the defence community to advocate for real change to meet their need . crucially , it will do that by reduce barrier and foster a culture of be listen to , rather than be do to . it can only do that , however , if it be an independent office . my concern about the amendment be that , although they be consider and table in good faith , they have the potential to undermine the independence of the commissioner . it be that independence which be so vital . I be very proud to support the Bill , and of the impact it will have in my constituency of Colchester and across the country for the future of our armed force community . I rise to speak primarily in support of amendment 8 , but I will also give some broad reflection on the Bill . we all need to be very clear that the welfare of service personnel be the responsibility of the military chain of command . no other supernumerary bureaucratic organisation can take that responsibility away from the chain of command . personally , I be concerned that the Bill have the potential to undermine the authority of the chain of command , and I will expand on that theme . however , I also agree with the hon . and gallant Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) that we have see too many example of service personnel be poorly treat in their service . if it be not for the fact that that be the case , arguably we would not have have a need for the Service Complaints Ombudsman for the Armed Forces and , now , for the Armed Forces Commissioner . have say that welfare be the responsibility of the chain of command , amendment 8 make it very clear that ensure a separation between the authority of that chain of command and the independence of the Armed Forces Commissioner will be critical . as I understand it , the provenance of the Bill be that the Government think the remit of the Service Complaints Ombudsman for the Armed Forces be too narrow , so they have add in the responsibility for welfare . welfare be a very broad word . it mean quite a lot to quite a lot of different people . for some people , it mean housing . for other , it mean education . it can mean myriad thing . we know that , because General Rommel comment that the good form of welfare be well training , because well training make for few widow . that be the way Rommel see welfare . as I be mention Germany , the model for the commissioner be the german armed force commissioner , which be there to ensure that the inalienable right of the german armed force be not impinge on by the giving of illegal order . that be its sole remit , yet it have grow . in 40 year , it have never have a case where it have find that a member of the german armed force have be give an illegal order , yet that organisation have grow to a staff of over 60 , and its main area of recommendation and concern be to do with equipment . the german armed force commissioner be the inspiration for the Bill , but the Government ' s propose commissioner be quite different . the german commissioner sit effectively as a Member of Parliament , and have parliamentary staff . do the hon . and gallant Gentleman not see the difference between the german legislation and this Bill ? I do acknowledge that important difference . I think that amendment 8 seek to enhance and strengthen the independence of the Armed Forces Commissioner from the chain of command , and I commend it to the hon . Gentleman . the german armed force commissioner find herself report and make recommendation on matter such as equipment and undermanning — matter that be well beyond the inalienable human right of german service personnel not to be give an illegal order . my watchword be that , untrammelle , this proposal will grow arm and leg . not only have we widen it to cover welfare , which , as I have argue , be very broadly interpretable , but we be give the Armed Forces Commissioner an " access all area " pass . we have enable member of armed force family — wide family — to be in touch with the commissioner , something that the german model do not follow . while I support amendment 8 and the chain of command , I be glad that I have have the opportunity to put my view on record . the tone of the hon . and gallant Gentleman ' s remark suggest that he do not really support the thrust of the Bill , and be extremely sceptical about the potential area of involvement of the Armed Forces Commissioner per se . have hear what be say from the Opposition Front Bench in Committee , I be under the impression that there be consensus across the House in favour of the thrust of the Bill and that today we would be talk about nuance and detail , so I seek reassurance from the hon . and gallant Gentleman that he do in fact support the need for an Armed Forces Commissioner . I think the hon . Member will recall from his time on the Bill Committee that the Front - Bench spokesman , my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , refer to we as fulfil the role of critical friend . exactly . I offer these comment as a critical friend . I think it important for people listen to this debate and refer to our proceeding at a later time to realise that , utterly untrammelle , these measure will generate a bureaucracy all of their own . we do not wish this to be a good idea that we have in peacetime that become a massive hindrance as we approach a period of conflict . I congratulate the new Government on introduce the Bill so early in their term . it be a pleasure to serve on the Committee , along with friend on both side of the House , and to hear from the exist Service Complaints Ombudsman as well as from charity such as Poppy Scotland and the Royal British Legion . I thank the Clerks and Committee staff who help and support I , as a new Member serve for the first time on a Committee of that kind . it be particularly positive to hear the strong cross - party consensus in favour of the Bill , which be support by both the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , and the hon . and gallant Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , although , like my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , I fear that the hon . member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) do not support it . I hope that that be not the case . I should add that I do not expect to be discuss the difference between the power and political structure of the United States Senate and those of this Parliament with the shadow Minister , but it be very interesting and enjoyable . I understand the need , in fact the duty , of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition to scrutinise legislation properly , but I hope that after today ' s debate on the amendment , the House will speak with one voice in support of the Bill and there will be no need for division . this Government have already show their commitment to our armed force by award the large pay rise in over 20 year , tackle recruitment by remove outdated policy , and boost retention through £ 8 , 000 payment to certain Army personnel and £ 30 , 000 to for some aircraft engineer . they be also do more to support veteran . it be a pleasure to welcome the Veterans Minister to my constituency last week , where he visit Bravehound and Ghost Force K9 , organisation run by veteran to support other veteran ' mental health through the walking and training of dog . the problem that the Bill seek to begin to tackle be well know : 14 year of our armed force be hollow out and underfunde by the Conservative Government , and , in Scotland , an SNP Government with seemingly little interest in support serve personnel for their own petty political reason , and fail even to properly recognise the role of the scottish defence industry in our national economy . it be noticeable that once again , as we debate an issue that will affect armed force personnel in Scotland , no SNP Members be present . we have a crisis in military morale and recruitment . under the last government , only four in 10 personnel report that they be satisfied with service life , the low report level on record . the impact on family life and personal life be the top factor influence their decision to leave . meanwhile , we live in an increasingly unstable world in which it seem more and more likely that our armed force will be need to play further role around the world . the Bill seek to build on and expand the role of the Service Complaints Ombudsman . that will allow the new commissioner to continue to respond on , and help with , specific issue , but crucially it will also enable he or she to conduct wide inquiry , and to investigate issue that affect general service welfare , include those affect family . all that will be critical to the future success of our armed force . the commissioner must be independent and free from Government interference , and must present a report to Parliament annually . I suspect that Ministers will not look forward to that event , as they will rightly be hold to account not only by the commissioner but member from all part of the House , and indeed the public . let I address some of the amendment , and explain why I believe that the Bill should proceed unamended , follow a constructive Committee stage . amendment 10 , propose by the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , seek to specify far the role of the commissioner . although I believe that it be well intentione , be overly prescriptive in the Bill risk inadvertently compromise the independence of the commissioner , which will be vital to his or her success . in Committee , I raise that issue with Angela Kitching from the Royal British Legion , who feel that the term " general welfare " be sufficiently understand in the military , so I do not believe that we should seek to be more prescriptive than that . indeed , amendment 8 and 10 , both in the name of the hon . member for South Suffolk , appear contradictory , with amendment 8 seek additional measure to cement independence from the Government , while amendment 10 would dilute that independence by add unnecessary prescription . moreover , we know that the issue the commissioner will seek to investigate will change and evolve over time , and I do not think it helpful to have that level of prescription in the Bill evermore , or until it be amend by primary legislation . my hon . friend be make an excellent point about both independence and the need for flexibility . do he agree that the recently discover serious problem with service housing might have be address well and soon if there have be an independent figure whom service family as well as serve member of armed force could approach ? my hon . friend be entirely right . housing issue be critical to ensure that we recruit and retain the personnel we will require for the success that we want our armed force to have . give the support that the hon . Gentleman and the hon . member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) have express for improvement in service housing , which must be one of the principal issue affect the welfare of serve member of armed force , what be the hon . Gentleman ' s objection to amendment 10 ? give what he have say , I should have think that he would be fully supportive of it . I agree that housing be one of the issue that the commissioner will want to consider , and I hope that they will , in Scotland and throughout the United Kingdom , but I do not think it helpful to be prescriptive . we must ensure that the commissioner be fully independent and can determine their own priority , and we should not seek to place requirement on they . otherwise , Parliament will be dictate to they what they should do . I believe that they — and their staff , appoint through the appointment process — will be more than capable of do that for themselves . amendment 6 , table by the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell , seek to impose a timescale for the implementation of the Bill . I be sure that the Minister , like other member , want to see the commissioner begin their new and expand role as quickly as possible , but it be important that this be do fully and correctly . in Committee , I ask Mariette Hughes , the Service Complaints Ombudsman , how staff would cope with the additional power that be be transfer . it be positive to hear that staff be excited about the new power and believe they to be necessary ; that be a sign that the legislation be both need and frame correctly . on timescale , Mariette Hughes say that " there need to be a significant scoping period to determine how many staff will be require and what the budget will look like . " – – [ Official Report , Armed Forces Commissioner Public Bill Committee , 10 December 2024 ; c . 6 , Q6 . ] amendment 10 seek to rush that process , and risk lose the good will within the ombudsman ' s team . I come back to the importance of independence , and my belief that there must be a culture of independence from the beginning , without artificial deadline or criterion be impose . I know the Minister want to move as quickly as possible with this legislation while ensure its effectiveness , and I ask he to comment on the timescale , but I do not believe that the amendment be require . I turn to an issue that I raise on Second Reading and again in Committee , and which be mention in new clause 2 : relationship with veteran commissioner and the devolved administration . give that I be the only Scottish Member on the Public Bill Committee , ensure that this legislation be effective for my constituent be one of my key concern . when I ask Mariette Hughes about this issue in Committee , she be incredibly practical and clearly focus on the need to solve problem with the devolved administration , rather than take a heavy - handed approach . in my view , her approach be correct . she say that she would work " with the devolved administration … sit round the table and talk about whose job it be to take this forward , because we can all agree that this be what need to happen for people . " – – [ Official Report , Armed Forces Commissioner Public Bill Committee , 10 December 2024 ; c . 6 , Q7 . ] in Committee , I ask the Minister about housing , which have be discuss . I be reassure by his response that " if the commissioner be look at housing in a scottish context , you would expect they to make recommendation to the Scottish Government . " – – [ Official Report , Armed Forces Commissioner Public Bill Committee , 10 December 2024 ; c . 68 , q108 . ] that be the kind of constructive scrutiny that I would like to see , and I feel that new clause 2 be heavy - handed in its dealing with the devolved administration . an annual report will be present to this House ; I be sure that MSP colleague of all political party , as well as scottish mps , will be quick to hold a Scottish Government of any political stripe to account when recommendation be make to they . new clause 2 do not take account of the fact that the power to tackle issue such as housing lie not with veteran commissioner , or even with the Scottish Government , but with local council , which be even close to community . I know that the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford , abhor central control from a distant place , so I be sure that he will agree that seek to control housing policy in Fife or Moray from London be not appropriate . I urge member to reject new clause 2 . as I say , the fact that the Government bring forward this legislation so early on and the other positive step that have be take to support our armed force and veteran show the commitment of the Labour party and this Government to support both . I hope that we can maintain the positive tone of discussion on the Bill to date , and that we can speak with one voice this evening and pass this legislation without amendment . may I say how delighted I be to see the introduction of a commissioner for our armed force and veteran ? it be badly need , and I be sure that the commissioner will be appreciate and will make vast improvement to the welfare of our people . I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , for table new clause 1 , because we have volunteer in the Territorial Army who be highly respected and value , yet they get reject when they apply to the Army . they do not feel that they be give any explanation of why they be not accept by the armed force , and new clause 1 would address that . it be really bad for morale when people do not get tell exactly why they have not be accept . I truly welcome this Bill . I rise to lend my full support to this Bill , and I will shortly speak to the amendment in the name of the Opposition . the Bill represent a long - overdue step towards support the welfare and right of service personnel and their family . I have a brother in our armed force , and I be grateful to have a Government who recognise the value of be challenge to deliver more for our service personnel and for military family like mine . the introduction of the Armed Forces Commissioner be an opportunity to provide independent and robust oversight to ensure that we in this place , and all part of Government , do right by all who serve . our nation and its armed force be inseparable . in Burton and Uttoxeter , we have so many military family like mine ; we feel immense pride in the service of our love one . at a moment ' s notice , they stand ready to protect our nation and all that we hold dear . regardless of whether it be a soldier post overseas , a sailor patrol distant water or a pilot protect our sky , their wellbeing , and that of their family , should be at the heart of any Government policy . this Bill achieve precisely that by establish an independent Armed Forces Commissioner who can investigate , advocate and hold the system to account . the commissioner will not just respond to complaint , but proactively examine the issue affect service life , from housing and healthcare to the transition to civilian life and the schooling of service child . the role will deliver real improvement , and it will challenge this Parliament and this government , so I hope that those on the Front Bench be fully prepared for that . I be mindful of amendment 9 and 10 . although their intention may be laudable , I think they miss the point . amendment 9 propose that the commissioner ' s remit explicitly include pension and death - in - service benefit for serve and former member of the armed force . that might seem fair at first glance , but I be firmly of the view that the amendment be unnecessary and risk undermine the effectiveness of the commissioner ' s work . as define by the Bill , the commissioner ' s role be already expansive , cover the full spectrum of welfare concern for service personnel and their family . amendment 9 risk narrow the commissioner ' s focus , and could lead to a disproportionate allocation of time and resource to one area at the expense of other press welfare concern . the commissioner must have the freedom to determine their priority , base on the evidence that they receive from service personnel , veteran and their family . the commissioner ' s work should not be restrain by this Parliament prescribe specific area of focus , no matter how good its intention . let we trust that the Bill give the commissioner the independence that they require to do the job effectively . to prescribe excessively be to risk dilute the authority and focus of this legislation , as my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) say . he be bang on the money , if the House pardon the pun . similarly , amendment 10 seek to explicitly include issue affect child , family and dependant . although I fully recognise the importance of support the family of our service personnel , this amendment raise several concern . the commissioner ' s role be already design to allow they to advocate comprehensively for the welfare of service family . there be no doubt that issue such as education allowance , special need tuition and housing fall squarely within that remit . the commissioner must have the flexibility to address the full spectrum of welfare issue , and must not be bind by a rigid checklist dictate by this House . we must trust that the commissioner will engage with service family effectively , without Parliament micromanage their work . I be sure that all of we in this House have topic that we would want the commissioner to focus on , but the point be that it be not up to we . this Bill represent progress , and a move towards ensure that our military personnel and their family feel hear , value and support . it send a clear message that their voice matter , that their welfare matter and that their service to our country be not take for grant . we on these Benches have consistently support measure that champion the right and wellbeing of all those who serve . the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill align with those value , and I urge colleague to wholeheartedly support it tonight . it be a pleasure to speak in support of the Bill . I come into politic to improve people ' s life , and I believe that the introduction of an Armed Forces Commissioner will do just that by provide a voice to member of our armed force community who have be ignore for far too long . as the Prime Minister say during the King ' s Speech debate last year , this be not just a " name or a role " ; it be a way in which we can show our respect for those who have commit their life to the ultimate service . indeed , my own father serve as a gunner in the Royal Artillery , take he to Northern Ireland , Germany , Cyprus and Canada , so I have some idea of the sacrifice make by our servicemen and woman and their family . this be yet another instance of this Government deliver on their promise . we make a manifesto commitment to strengthen support for our armed force personnel and the family who support they by establish an independent Armed Forces Commissioner , and here we be now , get on with it . the simple fact be that the current system be break after 14 year of the conservative regrettably bury their head in the sand . no one should have to live in damp housing or use food bank to get by , least of all the family of our brave armed force . we know that , sadly , only four in 10 service personnel say that they be satisfied with service life in general . we will all be conscious of the shocking report of the experience of female personnel in particular over recent year . these be totally unacceptable , so I be reassure to see the former Member for Wrexham , who chair a Defence Committee inquiry into woman in the armed force , express her support for the Bill . amendment 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , would ensure that the commissioner publish annual report to outline what be be do to support minority group in the armed force . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the amendment would ensure that the commissioner be an important tool in help to achieve the target of woman account for 30 % of armed force personnel recruit by 2030 ? I thank the hon . member for her contribution , but I will not be support that amendment . I hope that we will be able to pass the Bill unamended , and I will defer to the Minister to address that question directly . I echo the sentiment of my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) about the independence of the commissioner , and particularly his comment on amendment 6 . we live in a dangerous world , so when it come to the man and woman who be task with keep we safe , we must ensure that we return the favour by make sure that they be treat with respect . we should not delude ourselves by see the Armed Forces Commissioner as a silver bullet . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to a new strengthen armed force covenant , which would enshrine in law the respect due to member and former member of our military . as many member know , the military estate ' s house , barrack and other facility be in an appalling condition and , frankly , unfit to house many of our servicemen and woman and their family . I welcome measure from the Government to conduct a medium to long - term review , but I would simply urge Ministers not to kick the can down the road on an issue that have persist for far , far too long . financial wellbeing , gap in medical discharge process , mental health support failure — there be a lot to do , but the initial sign be good . as secretary of the all - party parliamentary group on Germany and someone with a number of family member in Germany , I would like to note that this position have be model on its long - establish and successful german counterpart , as the hon . and gallant Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) rightly mention . it be refreshing to see a Government seek to improve life in the UK by draw inspiration from the successful policy of our close ally in Europe . I sincerely hope that we can pass the Bill today to provide the support our military personnel and their family so urgently deserve . the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill stand as a critical piece of legislation that will establish an independent champion for our servicemen and woman , as well as their family . the Bill fulfil a manifesto commitment and represent a significant step forward in renew our nation ' s contract with those who serve we , so it be positive to see its continued and rapid progression into law . today , our Opposition colleague have table a number of amendment , and I want to speak to several of they in turn . on new clause 1 , the Government be implement measure to address our current challenge with recruitment and retention . expand the commissioner ' s scope to include all applicant could overwhelm the office and detract from its core mission of support current service personnel and their family . the previous Conservative Government hollow out and underfunde our armed force . Morale in the military be at a record low , and we be face a recruitment and retention crisis . many of those who want to join our armed force wait far too long , and the Government be commit to fix this through measure such as the new 10 - 30 provision , under which applicant will be give a provisional offer to join the armed force within 10 day of apply , and a provisional start date within 30 day . the hon . member describe morale as be at an all - time low . last week , along with a number of colleague from the Defence Committee , we both have the opportunity to visit RAF Lossiemouth , where we see a range of service personnel at the top of their game . I be intrigue to know whether he would characterise their morale as be at an all - time low , or whether he think the election of a Labour Government in July have have the rapid effect he describe . the hon . and gallant Member be correct that we visit RAF Lossiemouth last week , where we see people at the top of their game , do what servicepeople do , which be cope , do their job and put a brave face on thing . however , the continuous attitude survey show the stress behind those thing . the service they be , to some degree , endure could be make well . although servicepeople put a good face on their morale when we see they , that do not mean our service be in the buoyant state they could be . do my hon . and gallant Friend agree that an easy way to measure morale be through retention rate ? we be not recruit and retain armed force personnel to the degree we would wish . part of the motivation for introduce this Bill to address general service welfare issue — I be make sure that I use the correct language about what the Armed Forces Commissioner role cover — be to have an operational impact by make it easy to recruit people to the armed force . and once we train they at great expense , we must retain they for the long possible period of viable service . I agree entirely with my hon . friend . we do not expect service personnel to stand up and openly tell we their problem , as that be part of what make they resilient . the important thing about have an Armed Forces Commissioner be that they can see through that . the gallant Members of this House will be able to see through those thing , and it would be wrong to politicise what people present of themselves during our visit , rather than what we would like they to make known , for political gain . the truth , as my hon . friend make perfectly clear , be that we be not do a very good job of recruit and retain personnel . the objection to new clause 1 be that it be important to focus on the specific need that will enable we to have well recruitment and retention , because that be where we be fail . perhaps that be why the hon . and gallant Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) be now in this House , rather than continue his illustrious career . the Government have also introduce a new cyber pathway to bring the good and bright into our armed force and to rebuild our defence for the future , particularly give the grey zone threat from Russia about which the Select Committee hear evidence this morning . this be also positive , but with 150 , 000 applicant attempt to join the military at any one time , if all those individual be bring under the scope of the commissioner , as would happen if the new clause be enact , that would vastly increase the commissioner ' s workload and , ultimately , impact their efficiency and effectiveness . in propose the new clause , Conservative Members be attempt to address a genuine problem , but I have concern that , in practice , it could mean that service personnel and their family would not get the attention they rightly need . on new clause 2 , while the Armed Forces Commissioner ' s role be focus on serve personnel , the Government be implement a broad strategy of support for the entire armed force community , include veteran , through various initiative and legal protection . all veteran , include those sit on the Opposition Benches , make an important contribution to our community and our armed force . however , the Armed Forces Commissioner ' s remit be purposefully define narrowly to focus on issue currently impact service personnel and their family . that allow the commissioner to effectively address immediate concern face those in uniform , include some of those that most concern I and most seriously affect retention for woman and people from ethnic minority , such as bullying and harassment . the Bill be just one step in Labour ' s plan to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve and have serve , and their family . our Government be commit to strengthen support for the entire armed force community , recognise that the issue of veteran support be distinct from those issue address by the Bill . the Government be work to fully incorporate the armed force covenant into law , ensure fairness and respect to veteran and their family . recent initiative include a £ 75 million LGBT financial recognition scheme , acknowledge the historic wrong experience by our LGBT veteran ; make the veteran card an accepted form of voter ID , crucial to mobile service member , as I know from my own experience ; and commit £ 3 . 5 million for veteran homelessness support , include wraparound service for at - risk veteran . while the Armed Forces Commissioner will primarily deal with those affect by service law , they will have the discretion to invite opinion from a broad range of stakeholder , include veteran , when conduct investigation . I would expect the commissioner to regularly use that power , as it be a critical part of their role , as Conservative Members have say . I hope Conversative Members recognise that flexibility be important in the Bill , as it will allow the commissioner to gather comprehensive insight in the exercise of their duty , but do not limit their independence or freedom to lead by narrow their focus . on amendment 7 , while focus on serve personnel , the role of the Armed Forces Commissioner complement the broad armed force covenant and exist legislation to support the entire military community . the armed force covenant recognise the unique obligation and sacrifice make by those who have serve in the armed force , whether regular or reserve , as well as veteran and their family . our Government be fully commit to the covenant and our election manifesto pledge be to put the covenant fully into law . the Armed Forces Commissioner ' s role focus primarily on member of the serve community and their family , but they will undoubtedly consider covenant issue relate to active service member and their family as part of general service welfare matter , as outline in the Bill . that align with the commissioner ' s function to promote the welfare of service person and their family , and to improve public understanding of the issue . it be important to note that the Bill be not standalone legislation . instead , it amend part of the Armed Forces Act 2006 , which already include part 16a address the armed force covenant . therefore , amendment 7 be not necessary . by integrate the commissioner ' s role into the exist framework , we ensure a comprehensive approach to support both current and former member of the armed force , reinforce our commitment to the entire military community . amendment 8 would require the commissioner to be independent from the Government and the armed force and from interference when carry out their duty . in response , the Bill provide great independence and scrutiny for those uphold the welfare of armed force personnel . I welcome that role , which will be subject to a full public appointment process and scrutiny by the Defence Committee , as mention early by its Chair , my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) . the commissioner will be establish as a corporation sole and will thus be independent of the Ministry of Defence , which be clearly important to give they the ability to hold people to account effectively . the commissioner will have discretion over what they investigate and the proactive power to launch investigation . those provision mean that the commissioner will stay focused on general service welfare matter and will be expect to have regular meeting with the chain of command . however , I fully agree that independence for the chain of command be vital . as a member of the Defence Committee , I have the opportunity to question the Service Complaints Ombudsman on a point that many member of the armed force have raise with I since , around the independence of the current complaint process from the chain of command . will the Minister provide clarification on how the commissioner will close that gap and the gap that allow for abuse by command officer ? I want to emphasise how important a shift the new power and independence of the commissioner will be . that will mark a significant improvement on the current ombudsman ' s limited scope . the commissioner will retain the independence to make arrangement for their office . they will also be able to decide how to spend their money and which issue they choose to investigate . currently , the Service Complaints Ombudsman have only the power to investigate formal service complaint , as she stress last week . however , the current defence guidance encourage informal complaint resolution at the low level . in my view , that emphasis can be inappropriate when deal with complaint such as harassment and discrimination . abuser can survive an informal resolution and move on to continue their abuse elsewhere . the hon . and gallant Member refer to the armed force complaint ombudsman give evidence to the Defence Committee last week . her report from 2023 detail that three complaint be make against the ombudsman organisation itself . be he as dismay as I be that she be not able to recall the detail of the one complaint of those three that be uphold ? the ombudsman who come to speak to we the other day give a clear account of the challenge and issue that she face and elucidate on a number of challenge around address the specificity of any individual complaint that she have be make aware of , due to the distance between the complaint and her appearance before the Committee . I think it be worth review the entirety of her evidence because , for I , it do nothing more than emphasise the need for the Bill to be pass as draft and to take note of my challenge to the amendment . on the wide status of the service complaint system , effort to enhance consistency and accessibility be ongoing . I take this moment to thank the ombudsman , Mariette Hughes , and her team for their work to improve the service complaint system . it be clear from her response to our question last week that she be conscious of the need to continue improve the system throughout the transition to a new commissioner . I be sure the Ministry will continue its work to implement the recommendation of the ombudsman ' s office , particularly in ensure that there be a single entry point for complaint and a consistent approach in the recording of all the grievance across defence , as lay down in successive annual report . on amendment 6 , the Government be commit to swiftly establish the Armed Forces Commissioner through a rigorous appointment process , ensure that the role be fill by a highly qualified and security - clear individual who can advocate effectively for the armed force community . although the Bill do not detail a specific implementation timetable , which colleague will know be typical of primary legislation , this be a priority for the Government . I believe that colleague from all part of the House will recognise that the appointment process must be do correctly . the appointment will be subject to a full public appointment process , regulate and oversee by the Commissioner for Public Appointments . this process will include necessary vetting and security clearance , build trust among armed force personnel that the appointment — [ interruption . ] the implementation timeline will also account for the passing of the secondary legislation and a smooth transition from the current Service Complaints Ombudsman to the new Armed Forces Commissioner — do the hon . Member require a moment ? no . be you happy to continue ? yes . wonderful . in conclusion , Madam Deputy Speaker , the creation of an Armed Forces Commissioner will provide a powerful voice for service personnel and their family , ensure that their concern be hear and address at the high level . as we move forward with the Bill , we must remain vigilant in our effort to improve service life , address systemic issue and uphold the high standard of behaviour within our military . the success of the new role demand , and depend on , our continued support and scrutiny . I look forward to see the positive impact that this Bill will have on the life of those who serve our nation . a substantial contribution there . I call the shadow Minister . on Second Reading , we begin by announce that , with regard to the Bill , our aim be to be a critical friend , and that remain our aim today , although I feel that , at one point , we may become very critical . may I begin , however , in a bipartisan spirit by point out that , even though we be here today to debate the extremely important matter of the welfare of our armed force , so far at least , as point out by the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) , the SNP have not make a single contribution to this discussion — and neither for the record have Reform . and in both case , that be a shame . we debate this Bill in Committee in December , and follow that I should like to speak to amendment 8 to 11 , plus new clause 2 , in my name and the name of my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , who be in his place . first , though , let I commend the Chair of the Defence Committee for his speech . for the record , he be have a good run at the moment . he have have three Select Committee report , on which he have be allow to make statement , and the Committee have only be up and run for a few week , so that be a very fast start . I shall be relatively brief in my remark on amendment 8 , because we cover this issue in some detail in Committee . moreover , my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) , as a former command officer of the Scots Guards , make some incisive point about the amendment , not least in relation to the interaction between the propose Armed Forces Commissioner and the chain of command . that point be also touch on by the hon . and gallant Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) , before he be inexplicably distracted . suffice it to say for now , it be mention numerous time across all part of the Committee that , in addition to demonstrate their independence , the Armed Forces Commissioner would have to work hard in this new role to win the trust of armed force personnel and their family . indeed , during the public evidence session , General Sir Andrew Gregory , the controller of SSAFA , make the very constructive suggestion that the commissioner would need to undertake a lot of visit to armed force location to meet both personnel and their family as part of that trust - building process . when I be an MOD Minister , I try to make a lot of visit , too , so I can well understand the merit of the general ' s suggestion . accord to the Government ' s timetable , the new Armed Forces Commissioner be likely to be up and run sometime in 2026 . I hope that whoever take up the post will be minded to listen to General Gregory ' s sage advice . turn to amendment 9 , we raise pension and death - in - service benefit in Committee . as I shall go on to explain , we be determined to raise this issue on Report , not least because it be both important and unresolved . I would like to look at one aspect of military pension and then at death - in - service benefit specifically . it be interesting that we lack some important statistic about military veteran who have leave the armed force and then draw their service pension . for instance , we have an armed force continuous attitude survey , or AFCAS , which be an annual exercise to tell we the attitude of armed force personnel on everything from housing repair to overseas deployment . similarly , we have a reserve continuous attitude survey , or rescas , to ask question about the opinion of our much - value reserve , and we also have a family continuous attitude survey , or famcas , to seek the view of service family . however , there be no official veteran continuous attitude survey — no VETCAS , as it be — to tell we the opinion of veteran . however , a number of veteran charity gather datum in this area outside the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Defence . I recently table a write parliamentary question to MOD Ministers about their estimate of the number of veteran who would be affect by the recent decision to seriously restrict winter fuel allowance availability . the response that come back from the Department around a fortnight ago be , in essence , that it do not have the datum . I humbly suggest that someone need to try to collate that datum as soon as possible , because I be not sure the public would be pleased to learn that many veteran — although we can not say precisely how many — could lose their winter fuel allowance as a result of the Chancellor ' s Budget . indeed , the Royal British Legion , which know a thing or two about veteran , have express concern that the Government have " not identify how this policy change will impact old veteran " . a RBL spokesman recently say : " a large number of old people have serve in the UK Armed Forces , many of whom face additional heating cost due to care responsibility or disability " — will the right hon . member give way ? in a moment — please do not interrupt the Royal British Legion . it say : " the Government need to understand the impact of their policy on veteran in order to well support those affect . " I be very much enjoy the right hon . member ' s remark from the Dispatch Box , as I always do , but he be discuss an issue that be definitely not within the scope of the Bill . perhaps it would be well to move on to the area where — hopefully — we have cross - party consensus . first , that be a matter for the Chair . secondly , I presume that , if the amendment be not in order , it would not have be select . this be not Treasury question , so I do not propose to reprise the whole debate about the winter fuel allowance ; I will save hon . member from that agony . nevertheless , I hope the Minister have take the point on board . perhaps when he wind up , he could say something — anything — about how many veteran the Government think be likely to be affect by the restriction of winter fuel allowance and whether he think that that be the right thing to do , not least in the spirit of the armed force covenant . I turn to the specific matter of death - in - service benefit — a topic that , as the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar will remember , we raise in Committee last month . as ably point out by the Forces Pension Society , which I hope the House will accept be very much the gold - standard organisation on any matter relate to armed force pension — the clue be in the name — a problem have arise because of the Government ' s propose change to inheritance tax as announce by the Chancellor in her Budget of 30 October . in essence , if a member of the armed force who be in a long - term relationship — and perhaps even have child — but be not married die while in service , which do not necessarily mean in active operation , the death - in - service benefit that they would normally be entitle to might , under the Government ' s propose change , become liable for inheritance tax . as I do in Committee , let I take an example of how that might affect a senior non - commission officer . an individual at or 9 rank equivalent , a senior warrant officer at the top of the non - commission officer rank structure , have a partner to whom they be unmarried , and on death leave an estate worth £ 400 , 000 and death - in - service benefit of £ 248 , 292 — four time their £ 62 , 000 salary . they would pay 40 % inheritance tax on the non - pension asset , result in an IHT liability of £ 30 , 000 , but after April 2027 , and if the death - in - service benefit be include in the estate , that will increase the estate ' s value to £ 648 , 292 , and the IHT liability will increase accordingly to £ 129 , 316 . that represent a staggering increase of 330 % . in a briefing it prepare on this issue , the Forces Pension Society explain that worrisome problem in the following term : " at a time of extreme vulnerability , these lump sum need to be pay promptly , as they currently be . if death in service benefit become subject to IHT there will be a delay to the benefit be pay both while the estate be assess for IHT and while the amount of IHT attributable to the DIS [ death in service ] benefit be assess and the scheme administrator ( Veterans UK ) pay the tax charge . " the Forces Pension Society then elucidate : " many who would not previously have be catch with an IHT liability will find themselves in a very bureaucratic process that will slow down the already lengthy process of sort out the financial affair of an individual at what be a very difficult time . " I should say in fairness that the Forces Pension Society have suggest that the Government have make an error , and would not knowingly implement a policy that run so contrary to the spirit of the armed force covenant . will the right hon . member give way ? when I have finish this point , yes . the Forces Pension Society point out that the system be recoverable because the change be subject to a consultation and be not currently due to come in until April 2027 . nevertheless , this be still a potentially worrying situation , especially for armed force family in which parent be in a committed relationship with multiple child but have not , for whatever reason , decide to marry . we be prepared to give the Minister the benefit of the doubt about that in Committee . indeed , without wish to be uncharitable , when I raise it he seem slightly take aback by the problem . I say that because my suspicion be that when the Treasury come up with this , the Ministry of Defence be blissfully unaware of it . I therefore suggest that MOD Ministers may not be directly at fault , but it be nevertheless their personnel and family who may be affect . towards the conclusion of the Committee , I strongly suggest to the Armed Forces Minister that he should take this away for discussion with the Treasury , as there will be a consultation exercise on the change before they come into force in the 2026 - 27 financial year , with the opportunity to change the policy and avert the problem . will the right hon . member give way ? in a moment . indeed , the Forces Pension Society response to the consultation , which I have here , call on the Government to do just that . however , have give the Minister what I believe be fair notice in Committee , I raise the topic again with he at the last Defence question on 6 January — although , in fairness , that be the day the Commons return from Christmas recess . when I ask he what the Government have do about it , unfortunately he do not deliver a particularly convincing reply . I give way to the hon . Gentleman . I thank the right hon . member for give way . he be cite a specific example that the Armed Forces Commissioner would have to oversee . that be not relevant to the discussion about the Bill or the amendment . will he bring up any of the other myriad exceptional circumstance of pain and suffering for our service personnel that your leadership , under 14 year of the previous Government — Order . " your leadership " refer to I , and it be up to the Chair to determine what be in scope . for the benefit of other colleague , it be up to the speaker to accept or decline an intervention . do you have more to say , Mr Bailey , or shall I return to the shadow Minister ? no thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? just a second — I be just go to reply to this one . forgive I , but if my remark be not in order , we would have be tell so by now . maybe one day , after many year of distinguished service , the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) will become a Deputy Speaker of this House , but not today . I will continue , and then I will take the other intervention . we really need to do something about this issue . as the Forces Pension Society have point out , it would be totally contrary to the principle of the armed force covenant — include the principle that armed force personnel and their family should suffer no disadvantage as a result of their service to the Crown — if this be to go unanswered , and unmarried service widow and their family be to be punish in this way . I thank the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) for be patient . I thank the right hon . gentleman for give way . he have raise some interesting specific policy issue that be clearly of concern to large number of people receive armed force pension , but the Bill make it clear — and Ministers have be very clear throughout its consideration — that the independent commissioner will decide for themselves what be a general service welfare matter , and therefore whether they want to look into the issue raise by amendment 9 and 10 . will the right hon . Gentleman explain the apparent contradiction between Opposition Members insist in amendment 8 that they want reassurance about the independence of the commissioner , and their wanting to predetermine the very specific topic that the commissioner would investigate through amendment 9 and 10 ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . as we be on Report , we be try to amend the Bill where we think it could be improve . just because we have the Bill as originally produce on First Reading do not mean that it can not be improve . if I may humbly say so , that be what Report be about . this subject be press — I say this particularly to the hon . member for North Durham — as the consultation on it close tomorrow . the Veterans Minister reply to I on this subject — hey presto ! — just this morning . I quote from his letter : " I would seek to reassure the Right Honourable Gentleman that an exist exemption in Inheritance Tax legislation mean that active member who die as a result of their service , be exempt from Inheritance Tax provision . " however , that only apply to those kill while on active service . it do not apply to those who be still in the service of the Crown but die of natural cause , so I be afraid that the Veterans Minister ' s reply be smoke and mirror , as it deliberately duck the issue of those who die of natural cause while still in service with living dependant . the Government have already upset farmer and business owner through their propose inheritance tax change ; they surely do not want to upset service family as well . I say to the Minister that if , at what be now the third time of ask , we do not receive a satisfactory reply this afternoon , we will be strongly minded to press amendment 9 to a Division in order to hold Ministers to account and try to achieve positive change . with the consultation closing tomorrow , I will listen very carefully to what the Minister say about this issue in his response , but have give he two previous bite at the cherry , I be afraid that we may be likely to divide the House if we do not receive a satisfactory reply on behalf of those service family who may be affect . as you can see , Madam Deputy Speaker , amendment 10 cover three topic : the " operation of the Continuity of Education Allowance " , or CEA as it be know ; " the provision of Special Educational need tuition " for the child of armed force personnel ; and " the maintenance of service family ' accommodation . " I will take those topic in reverse order . on service family ' accommodation , I welcome in Committee the recent announcement that the Government intend to , in effect , buy back service family accommodation from Annington Homes . I know that my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) also welcome these proposal because — as Ministers , to be fair to they , have already acknowledge on the Floor of the House — while in government , he spend a great deal of time work on the scheme . he be understandably very pleased to see those effort come to fruition , albeit under a Government of a different colour , as indeed be I . we should give credit where it be due . service housing be mention multiple time in Committee , and there seem to be little doubt but that it qualify as a general service welfare matter . however , I have include the topic in this amendment to facilitate a brief discussion on the management and maintenance of service housing post Annington , as it be , and in the timeframe during which the new Armed Forces Commissioner be likely to be in operation . the fact that the MOD will in effect recover the freehold of its property and be the landlord open up exciting opportunity to change the maintenance of service family accommodation and , indeed , of single living accommodation as well . the Minister will be aware that , when I be a Minister , I be commission by a former Prime Minister to write two report : one be on armed force recruitment , subsequently entitle " fill the Ranks " and deliver in 2017 ; and as a result of the first report , a second one be on retention , entitle " Stick or Twist ? " and deliver in February 2020 — barely a month before the nation go into lockdown because of covid . I know that some Defence Ministers have kindly take the time and trouble to look at those report , so I shall not attempt to repeat their content here , except to make one specific point on the management of SFA . have look at the matter in detail , my team conclude very strongly that there must be a well way of manage service housing than the current Future Defence Infrastructure Services contract . our alternative , which I believe now have new resonance as the home be transfer from Annington back to the MOD , would be to form a dedicated force housing association , the fundamental purpose of which would be " to provide high quality , well maintain accommodation for service personnel and their family at an affordable cost . " I think the Minister have kindly read this report , as have the Veterans Minister , who have responsibility for it , and I hope he will take that on board . we debate special educational need in some detail in Committee , so I do not propose to repeat all of that again , but I refer the Minister to a recent Public Accounts Committee report that be publish last week on the topic . the continuity of education allowance be a very important issue , particularly as it affect retention . the vat increase of 20 % will affect around 4 , 200 child of service personnel , but the MOD be increase the CEA cap only by 12 . 5 % for senior school student and 16 . 6 % for junior school student , leave their parent to make up the difference from their post - tax income . this have already come into effect from 1 January , or about three week ago . a joint briefing note from the Independent Schools Council and the Boarding Schools ' Association point out that the vat will cover both tuition fee and boarding accommodation at independent boarding school . in the bad case , the vat will have an adverse impact on military family use CEA , who could see their contribution increase by over 50 % for senior school pupil . the Treasury ' s vat consultation say that it would " monitor closely the impact of these policy change on affected military and diplomatic family , with the upcoming Spending Review be the right time to consider any change to this scheme . " the spending review — [ interruption . ] Madam Deputy Speaker , I believe we have until 6 o ' clock . the spending review will not report until this summer , but military family be have to pay the increase cost now , and I have a whole range of quote that I could read into the record . order . Mr Francois , please do not read out all the quote , but come to your conclusion . I will not read they out , but the point , in term of retention , be that this be not just an officer ' s benefit . it be a very important benefit for senior non - commission officer . if the cost become unsustainable , there be a risk that they will leave the armed force , and that someone whom it may have cost the Crown over £ 1 million to train will leave , which would very much be a false economy . finally , on our new clause 2 , we have a considerable debate in Committee about the relationship between the Armed Forces Commissioner and the various veteran commissioner , a point touch on by our friend from Northern Ireland , and I place on record my admiration for the previous Northern Ireland veteran commissioner , Mr Danny Kinahan , an ex - serviceman who be widely respect across the sectarian and political divide in Northern Ireland . it be a great shame that he resign . Northern Ireland have possibly more veteran per head of population than any other constituent part of the United Kingdom . thousand serve in the Ulster Defence Regiment and the Royal Irish Regiment alongside the british Army regiment during their tour in Northern Ireland . will the right hon . Gentleman join I in commend the new veteran commissioner , Mr David Johnstone , who have also serve with distinction , and do he agree with the call of the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) today that this should be a fully fund and full - time post in Northern Ireland , give the need of veteran in Northern Ireland ? I wish the new veteran commissioner in Northern Ireland all the good , but suffice it to say that he have a hard act to follow . in conclusion , we hope that we have be a critical friend to the Bill . we have press the Government on death - in - service benefit , and on the continuity of education allowance and its implication for retention , and if we do not receive what I yet hope may be satisfactory answer from the Minister , we might be minded to press the amendment on those issue to a Division . I thank all member who have speak in this debate , and all who serve on the Public Bill Committee . the Bill be a landmark step towards fulfil this Government ' s commitment to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve by strengthen support for our armed force , and their family , who stand behind they . our force face a crisis in recruitment , retention and morale that this Government inherit after 14 year of a Conservative Government ; only four in 10 of our service personnel report be satisfied with service life . we need this Bill to establish a champion who can shine a light on the general service welfare matter most affect our people , so that we in this House can understand those issue and hold this government and future government to account . I will turn to each of the amendment propose . new clause 1 in the name of the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , seek to bring those go through the recruitment process into the commissioner ' s remit . we inherit a retention and recruitment crisis . that be why the Secretary of State lay out a number of policy to improve our recruitment policy early door . one of they be the 10 - 30 policy , so ably explain by my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) : the policy that a provisional offer will be make within 10 day of an application to the armed force , and a provisional start date will be give within 30 day . that be a substantial step forward for those join our armed force . some 84 % of those who seek to join the armed force drop out of the process because it take too long . that be an utter scandal that this Government be determined to address . that be why the 10 - 30 policy be put in place , and why the Defence Secretary , the Minister for Veterans and People and I have focus on improve our retention and recruitment policy . it be also why I have to resist the hon . Lady ' s amendment — because the focus of this Bill be on those who serve and their family . they have be neglect for far too long . that be why this Bill be relentlessly and unapologetically focus on provide an independent champion for they . I understand why the hon . Lady seek to include recruit in the scope of the Bill . that would mean 150 , 000 candidate every single year be add to the workforce on which the commissioner be focus . our job as a Government be to make it easy to convert more of those applicant into military personnel , and the new lateral entry into cyber work announce by the Defence Secretary be a good example of that , but the commissioner ' s focus should remain on those who serve and their family . new clause 2 , on veteran , table by the shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , be about ensure decent engagement with veteran commissioner across the country , and with the chief commissioner of the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery . the manifesto commitment on which the Bill deliver be clear : it be a commitment to address the gap in support for military personnel . the commissioner be to highlight the issue affect personnel today , not matter from the past . I understand why the hon . Member table the new clause , and with the Government ' s new role of Minister for Veterans and People , we have make clear our intention of improve the support that we offer veteran , but the commissioner ' s role be to support service personnel and their family . it be also the role of the commissioner to decide independently which general service welfare matter they should investigate . that freedom and independence be vital to the role , so it be important to keep the commissioner ' s freedom to decide whom to engage with . however , I reassure the hon . member that I would expect that once the commissioner be establish , their term of reference would be establish for engagement with a variety of organisation from the charitable and military charity sector , include body that represent veteran , and veteran commissioner across the UK . I therefore think that the effect of what he seek will be provide in our implementation of the Bill , so the new clause be unnecessary . amendment 7 , on the covenant , be also well intentione . it be important to realise that this be not a stand - alone Bill ; it amend the Armed Forces Act 2006 , part 16a of which deal with the covenant . the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell have seek to make the covenant apply to the Armed Forces Commissioner , but I reassure she that as this Bill will insert provision relate to the Armed Forces Commissioner into the Armed Forces Act , they will already grip in that way . I far reassure she that later this Parliament , the Government will bring forward proposal in the Armed Forces Bill to deliver on our manifesto commitment of put the armed force covenant fully into law . I therefore feel that the amendment be unnecessary , but I understand and entirely appreciate why she want to bring it forward . I hope that all of we can lend our support to the further implementation of the armed force covenant , so that it grip not just local but central Government . on amendment 8 , which be on independence , I hope that there be no doubt that the intention that the commissioner will act as an independent champion for our armed force and hold this and future government to account be clear in the legislation , and from commitment that the Defence Secretary and I have make at the Dispatch Box . I therefore generally welcome the principle of the amendment , which we discuss in detail in Committee . the Bill already have a number of provision to ensure that the commissioner can work and conduct their inquiry separately from Government . those provision include measure give they discretion over the matter they investigate , their report power , their power of entry to defence site to carry out their function — without notice , in some circumstance — and an obligation on the Secretary of State to co - operate with the commissioner . many of those function will be transfer from the Service Complaints Ombudsman . the ombudsman have highlight in her evidence that she already feel a strong degree of independence from the Ministry of Defence on decision making . that matter , and I have echo that in the Bill . there be important circumstance where it be critical that the commissioner can not act purely on their own initiative — I refer to the Secretary of State restrict access to site when there be a valid national security or safety reason to do so . a legal power for the commissioner to act without influence or interference would make that impossible . certainly in previous conversation , the opposition have be keen to ensure a suitable qualification to the power to access secret and very sensitive site , and the amendment would actually go against the argument that they have make elsewhere , so I hope that they will not press the amendment . I thank the House for its view on amendment 5 and 6 from the Liberal Democrats on the appointment of the commissioner . it be our intention that the commissioner will be in place in 2026 . the reason why we have have not only Second Reading and a full Committee stage but Report so soon into this new Government be that we want the commissioner put in place as soon as possible . our intention to have the operation up and run in 2026 remain in place . let I briefly refer to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) on the work of the House of Commons Defence Committee . we expect robust scrutiny of any candidate that the Secretary of State put forward for this role . we expect the relationship that the commissioner have with the Defence Committee to be above and beyond other relationship , because when the commissioner publish a report , under the Bill , it will not be send to the Ministry of Defence to decide what to do with it — except in the case of a national security scrub , and I be certain that every member in this House will understand why that be . it will be send to Parliament , include to the Defence Committee . in that respect , the relationship between the commissioner and the Defence Committee will be more enhanced than perhaps the relationship between the Service Complaints Ombudsman and the Committee . on the robust decision that the commissioner will make , my hon . friend may be aware that on page 9 of the Bill , paragraph 7 of schedule 1 include a power for the Secretary of State to appoint people to interim role if the full appointment process have not be complete . give the power afford to the Service Complaints Ombudsman , the ability of that organisation to function be greatly restrict if there be a vacancy in that office . we have learn from that , and provide a power to ensure that the work of the Armed Forces Commissioner could continue in the absence of a permanent post holder . I hope that will satisfy my hon . friend . I be eager for the commissioner to be establish , and for their office to be operational as soon as practically possible . on amendment 3 on funding , the Bill have be design to ensure that the commissioner have the tool , funding and support that they need , now and in future . the Secretary of State have an obligation in the Bill to give the commissioner any reasonable assistance that they request to conduct their work effectively . should the commissioner feel that their funding — estimate to be in the region of £ 5 million a year — be insufficient , they can raise this in their annual report , which be one of the mechanism for provide additional scrutiny to Parliament . on the family definition mention by the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell , she will be aware that we have commit to set out the definition of family member in secondary legislation , so that it can be update if necessary . family come in all shape and size , and when try to define " family " , it be important that we consult and get view from a wide range of people . we want to make sure that the definition in the legislation be as accurate as possible , and include bereaved family member of service personnel , so that they can still access the commissioner . I hope that give her reassurance . on the inclusion of minority group , speak as someone who represent one of the minority community that the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell mention , let I be clear that we want the commissioner to engage with a whole range of different community in our armed force family . it be important that they do . as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , a non - exhaustive list that leave out people with disability would be a concern , because I think the hon . Lady ' s intention be to focus on minority . we would expect the commissioner to be able to make a decision themselves in order to deliver that engagement . I know the Minister will have read amendment 2 in detail , and be aware that it include the word " include but not limit to " , and therefore include individual with disability and other . that be what the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , and for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , be concern about . that highlight the danger of a list . in future amendment that the hon . Lady table , I would expect she to veer away from list to avoid that problem . briefly , on the inheritance tax that the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) mention , the Minister for Veterans and People have reply to he , as I say he would in Defence question on 6 January . provision in the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 will continue to ensure that attributable death of active member be exempt from inheritance tax . as the right hon . Gentleman know , that be a matter for the Treasury , and it would be wrong of I to pre - empt the result of the genuine consultation be conduct by Treasury colleague . he may need to wait until the Treasury have have a chance to consider the matter . I expect , nonetheless , that he will push his amendment to a vote , because there be a certain level of politic that I appreciate he have to play . it be certainly true that our armed force deserve well than they have experience over the past 14 year . hollow out and underfunde service , servicemen and woman live in accommodation that , frankly , be not good enough , and morale fall every single year of the past 14 year — these be the area that this Government seek to change . the landmark Armed Forces Commissioner Bill will deliver a well service for our armed force and , importantly , their family . we have a lot of work to undo the damage , but I hope the message go out loud and clear from this House that the creation of an independent Armed Forces Commissioner — a champion for those serve in our military and for their family — be a good thing that enjoy cross - party support . I urge all colleague to support the Bill . I be happy with the reassurance receive from the Government , and I beg to ask leave to withdraw the clause . clause , by leave , withdraw . clause 4 - Commissioner ' s function in relation to general service welfare Amendment propose : 9 , page 2 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a ' general service welfare matter ' may include issue relate to the provision of pension and death in service benefit to serve and former member of the armed force and their dependant . " . — ( Mr Francois . ) the amendment would enable the Commissioner to include matter relate to pension and other such benefit , include death in service benefit , in their investigation of service welfare matter . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Andrew Snowden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 192 , Noes 338 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : 10 , page 2 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a ' general service welfare matter ' may include issue relate to the wellbeing of , and provision of support to , the child , family and other dependant of serve and former member of the armed force , include but not limit to — ( a ) the provision and operation of the Continuity of Education Allowance ; ( b ) the provision of Special Educational need tuition ; and ( c ) themaintenance of service family ' accommodation . " — ( Mr Francois . ) this amendment would enable the Commissioner to include matter relate to the wellbeing of , and provision of support to , the child , family and other dependant of serve and former member of the armed force in the Commissioner ' s investigation of service welfare matter . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Graham Leadbitter Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Andrew Snowden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 191 , Noes 338 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : 2 , page 3 , line 35 , at end insert — " 340IAA Commissioner support for minority group within service personnel ( 1 ) when investigate general service welfare matter under section 340IA , the Commissioner must consider the specific experience of minority group within service personnel , include but not limit to — ( a ) female ; ( b ) bame ( c ) non - UK ; and ( d ) LGBT + service personnel . ( 2 ) the Commissioner may investigate service welfare matter unique to one or more of these group of service personnel . ( 3 ) the Commissioner must maintain up - to - date evidence on the experience of these group of service personnel and develop robust community engagement mechanism to identify and address issue specific to these group . ( 4 ) the Commissioner must establish a formal network of representation to enable the view and concern of these group of service personnel to be communicate to the Commissioner . ( 5 ) the Commissioner must publish an annual report outline — ( a ) the issue face and concern raise by these group of service personnel ; ( b ) the action take by the Commissioner to address identify issue ; ( c ) the progress make in improve condition for these group of service personnel . " — ( Helen Maguire . ) this amendment would require the Commissioner to take specific action to consider and address welfare issue face service personnel from minority group . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Charlie Maynard Bobby Dean Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Alex Easton Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 76 , Noes 349 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it be a privilege to open the Third Reading debate and to reach this next milestone in establish the Armed Forces Commissioner . the first duty of any Government be to keep our nation safe . at the heart of that security be the dedicated man and woman of our armed force , and the family who support they . it be a priority for this Government to move quickly and introduce the Bill in our first Session . I be grateful to all member across the party for their co - operation in get the Bill this far in the short space of a few month . I thank everyone who have play a role in get the Bill to this stage , particularly the parliamentary staff who have work on the Bill , and the official in the Ministry of Defence who have move at pace to deliver it . it can be an all - too - rare occasion for this House to find itself in agreement , so I be grateful to member on all side , include those in the official Opposition , for their support for the Bill and for the role of the new Armed Forces Commissioner . I thank the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) and the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , alongside all member of the Bill Committee , for their constructive scrutiny throughout . this be testament to the pride that be feel in all part of the House in our exceptional armed force and our shared recognition of the service and sacrifice that they and their family make to keep we all safe . I also thank the witness who give evidence to the Committee , include the Service Complaints Ombudsman for the Armed Forces , Mariette Hughes , who have provide invaluable feedback , draw on her time in office , and show such enthusiastic support for what the Bill be try to achieve . I must thank she and her team for all their hard work in rescue much of the service complaint system and get it in the good shape that it be in today . I say thank you to the Royal British Legion , help for Heroes , SSAFA , Cobseo , the Defence Medical Welfare Service , the Army Benevolent Fund , the Royal Marines Charity , the RAF Benevolent Fund and the Army Families Federation , not only for their valuable and think - provoke participation at Committee stage , but also for their tireless work represent our service personnel and their family . their view will be crucial to ensure that the commissioner be a success . I think it be clear from the evidence that we have hear and from the view share in this House that an independent Armed Forces Commissioner be the champion that we need to improve service life and to represent our serve personnel and their family . at a time of increase instability and heighten tension , we be ask more of our serve personnel , but they have be badly let down and we be face a crisis in recruitment , a crisis in retention and a crisis in morale . for the past two year , more people have be leave our armed force than join , and morale hit a record low under the previous Government . our force and their family have be fail for far too long . that be why this Government be determined to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve , and the establishment of the Armed Forces Commissioner be a major step forward . I previously mention to the House that the Bill be inspire by the long - establish German Parliamentary Commissioner for the Armed Forces . I pay tribute to Dr Eva H ö gl , who be a superb example of how we can champion and provide a voice to our armed force . our propose Armed Forces Commissioner , like the german commissioner , will have the power to consider the full breadth of welfare issue that may impact service life . they will be a direct point of contact for our force and their family . the Bill before we grant the commissioner the necessary access to personnel , information and defence site to be able to proactively launch investigation , shine a spotlight on issue face service personnel and their family , and make recommendation to Parliament . they will be able to investigate individual concern and launch wide - range thematic investigation . the Bill also provide for the commissioner to absorb the exist power of the Service Complaints Ombudsman for the Armed Forces . as we hear from the current ombudsman in Committee , her remit be too narrow and do not allow she to explore the " so what ? " behind the complaint she oversee . the new power will allow the commissioner to do just that , situate the service complaint system in a wide landscape of service welfare and provide that coherent , independent view of those issue face our serve personnel and their family . at this time of increase threat , it have never be more important to raise awareness of the service and sacrifice make by our armed force and the issue face the family who stand beside they . we have discuss on the Floor of the House today , and in Committee last month , how critical it be for the commissioner to be independent and impartial , with the discretion to decide what welfare issue they investigate . I hope there be no doubt that our intention be that the commissioner will act as an independent champion for the armed force and hold this government and future government to account . they will challenge Ministers , strengthen parliamentary oversight and raise awareness of the issue face our force . several hon . member from across the House have speak about the Bill ' s application to veteran . I be grateful for those question and particularly for the contribution of those who have serve our armed force . I would like to reiterate that the Bill be deliberately tightly draw to focus on those who be currently serve and their family . look at the continuous attitude survey , that be where the crisis we be face in recruitment , retention and morale be . there be specific issue that need to be address for those people who serve in uniform today and their family . the role of the Armed Forces Commissioner as an independent champion for our force be significant and long overdue . the issue face our veteran population be distinct and , as the Secretary of State set out on Second Reading , we be certain that a more effective way of improve support for veteran will be to fully implement the armed force covenant in law — work that be already in train , lead by the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) . in conclusion , we must renew the whole nation ' s contract with those who serve . the Armed Forces Commissioner be a major step in commence that important work . this be landmark legislation to establish an independent Armed Forces Commissioner with the mission to improve service life . I therefore commend the Bill to the House . I congratulate and thank all right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to the passage of the Bill and serve on the Bill Committee . as I say on Second Reading , we recognise that the Government have a clear mandate for this piece of legislation , which have the worthy goal of improve day - to - day service life in our armed force . we strongly share that goal and want the Bill to succeed , but , as my hon . friend the Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) say , we also have perform the role of a critical friend of the Bill and have raise a number of specific issue . the shadow Veterans and Armed Forces Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , raise important point , which we have put forward in amendment . in fact , both relate to tax measure that have come forward under this tax - raise Government on death in service and continuity of education allowance , know as CEA . the key thing I would say on death in service , in response to what the Minister say on Report , be that of course we understand that a consultation be happen on inheritance tax , which expire tomorrow . what we want to know be that the Ministry of Defence have communicate to the Treasury that it oppose the measure and hope that it will not be impose on those who serve in our armed force , because it would be a disproportionate and significant increase in inheritance tax . as my right hon . friend put it in a move speech about the impact it would have , I be sure none of we in the Chamber would want to see that , so we hope that the Minister have write to the Treasury and that it listen to his advice and cancel the proposal . there be a very simple reason why we move amendment 10 on the continuity of education allowance . we want the Department to continue monitor the impact of the new tax on those who serve in the military and choose to send their child to independent school , not least because of the stability that those school provide in a life that be subject to the opposite , particularly for those who be deploy abroad . the allowance give they stability through access to school at which their child can board , and of course most of that capacity be in the independent sector , which be now subject to a huge 20 % tax imposition . we want that monitor by the Armed Forces Commissioner . if anyone doubt the reason for that , our office have receive many email from serve personnel — people in the Army , Navy and Air Force today — who be extremely concerned about the impact on they , and be have to weigh up their future . I will read an extract from one email that I receive from the wife of an Army officer with two child in boarding school — one in junior school , and one in senior school . she say : " with the sudden introduction of vat on school fee — something that be not foresee when we make our decision — we will face an additional £ 14 , 500 per year in cost . this be simply not sustainable for our family , and my husband be now consider leave the Army as a result . " this be not a minor matter . if we be worried about retention , surely the last thing any of we want be for people like that to consider leave . we be disappoint that the amendment be defeat , but the parliamentary arithmetic speak for itself . finally , on accommodation , which be an incredibly important issue , I remind the House of what I say on Second Reading . I say that , in my time as Minister for Defence Procurement with responsibility for the defence estate , " I want to see we potentially buy back the defence estate in England and Wales from Annington , so that we could plan a full rebuild and regeneration of the estate " . — [ Official Report , 18 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 78 . ] I be delighted that since I say that , the Government have conclude that deal . I start the negotiation on the deal when I be a Minister , follow the successful legal challenge initiate by the precede Minister for Defence Procurement , Jeremy Quin , and the deal be bring forward with huge effort in the Department — particularly , I must say , from the Defence Infrastructure Organisation . DIO have come in for criticism in some report — in response to the winter problem that we have two year ago , for example — but my experience be that its leadership be as passionate as I be about get that deal through , and we be now in a far well position . why do that matter ? well , there be many welfare issue that the commissioner will have to think about , but as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , say , accommodation will surely feature prominently , and we now have the mean to address that issue strategically , rather than through year - to - year sticking - plaster . I assure the House and Ministers that , give my role in drive that deal forward , I and my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford , who share my passion for housing and armed force accommodation , will seek to contribute to the plan to move forward to a well defence estate . in the meantime , we look forward to continue to engage on these matter as the Armed Forces Commissioner become a reality . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Environmental Protection I beg to move , that the draft Deposit Scheme for Drinks Containers ( England and Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 25 November 2024 , be approve . it be a red - letter day , be it not , Madam Deputy Speaker ? back in 2017 , the Environmental Audit Committee , which I chair , report on the UK ' s appal record on recycle plastic bottle , and recommend the introduction by Government of a deposit return scheme . I have the report and the then Government ' s response with I . previous Governments promise that such a scheme would be put in place , yet here we be . the Conservatives recycle Ministers at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs up to seven time , but they do little to reduce the million of empty plastic container litter our high street , wash up on our beach and pollute our river . we have know for decade that the " take , make , throw " model cause harm . it lead to littering , landfill and incineration . keep Britain Tidy estimate that two waste stream , plastic bottle and drink can , make up 55 % of all litter across the UK . when it come to address waste , this Government will not waste time . we be turn back the plastic tide and move to a circular economy that keep valuable resource in use for long . the Minister will know that incinerator be now the dirty way in which we generate electricity — dirty than coal . far to her Department ' s advice note date 30 December , what will she do to place a moratorium on the construction of new waste burner , thus bring we in line with more enlightened administration — in this respect at least — in Wales and Scotland ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that we make an announcement on that issue . we will bring forward further guidance and work with local authority as they examine what be before they , so there will be more to say on this at a later date . return to the issue of get money back on bottle and can , deposit return scheme and other such scheme be a well - establish method of keep resource in use for long . many of us generation X mp will remember use these scheme in our school day . over 50 country run money - back bottle scheme , create an incentive to return drink container for reuse or recycling . Germany have a 98 % return rate — the high in Europe — in its deposit return scheme last year . I meet the Irish Minister Ossian Smyth just last week ; Ireland ' s deposit return scheme be introduce only in February 2024 , and it be already achieve a 90 % return rate . the UK be way behind , with collection rate range from 71 % to 76 % for plastic bottle and metal can . we can , must and will do well . I thank the Minister for introduce the issue . could she kindly outline the discussion that she and the Government have have directly with Northern Ireland ? I do not want to be a Job ' s comforter , but we have ask some question , and it do not seem that anybody in Northern Ireland can tell we what the connection and discussion have be . I be very happy to say that we discuss the fact that when this scheme come in , there will be a scheme in Northern Ireland , and one in the south . however , the currency be obviously different , so we will have to get the scheme up and run before we look at whether there be scope for interoperability . that be basically where we be with Northern Ireland . I be not try to be awkward — it be never my form — but can the Minister say which Minister or Department her Government have speak to about this system , and how we in Northern Ireland can have input into this process , other than just from this place ? as I say , I be talk last week to Ossian Smyth , who be the outgoing Minister in the Republic of Ireland . we have be in discussion with official over the past several year ; the previous Government , member of which be in the Chamber today , have be in discussion with official at the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs , and I meet the Minister for a general introduction before Christmas . rise — I will make some progress , and I will perhaps come back to the hon . Gentleman later . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way , and commend the excellent work that she do on this subject as Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . I think another Select Committee then look at this subject in 2022 , and the Government at that stage say that they would implement a deposit return scheme . do my hon . friend accept that over 200 , 000 people respond to the consultation that be then run , and 84 % of respondent say that they agree with implement such a scheme ? I thank my hon . friend for that point . this move have overwhelming support from the general public , who be sick to death and feed up of see their street and river blight by litter . Slovakia implement a scheme in 2022 , and that country now have a 92 % return rate ; it be right up there with country that have have scheme for decade . we know that we can do the same in the UK ; just look at how behaviour have change since the introduction of charge for carrier bag in shop . that lead to a rapid change in people ' s habit . imagine where we would be if the previous Government have focus on recycle plastic bottle , rather than smuggle champagne bottle in suitcase into Downing Street . the deposit return scheme be one of the three strand of our packaging reform , along with extend producer responsibility for packaging and the simple recycling programme for England . we estimate that , together , the packaging reform will support 21 , 000 new green job in our nation and region , and stimulate more than £ 10 billion of investment in recycling capability over the next decade . CPRE , the countryside charity , estimate that the deposit return scheme will deliver 4 , 000 of those new job . it be also estimate that the reform will save over 46 million tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent by 2035 , value at more than £ 10 billion in carbon benefit . the deposit return scheme will end the epidemic of litter on our street and restore pride in our community . it will improve the countryside , preserve our wildlife and protect our beach and marine environment . I have speak to several fantastic organisation that be part of the huge campaign that my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) mention , include the Marine Conservation Society , the Aylesbury Wombles and , in my constituency , Destination Ball Hill . there be so many people spend so many volunteer hour deal with this pollution problem , and do their good to keep their area look nice . the brilliant charity keep Britain Tidy estimate that litter drink bottle and can along our roadside be kill million of our native mammal every year . if we drive along the M1 motorway , we see buzzard and bird of prey circling , and that be because our national highway have become nature corridor . they be a very important habitat for RES — rare and endangered specie — and much - love small mammal such as shrew , bank vole and wood mouse , but we be find more and more of they become trap in plastic bottle carelessly discard along our highway . we must act to protect these precious creature . we want less Mr Toad and more Moley . I warmly welcome the deposit return scheme ; it would have be fantastic if it have be deliver many year ago , as have be promise . on the wide issue of litter affect our constituency , will the Minister say more about how this measure fit in with the work the Government be do to , for want of a well phrase , get tough on litter and tough on the cause of litter ? I thank my hon . friend for that , and we be look at what further reform we can bring in to tackle the rogue waste collector . the carrier , broker and dealer regime be not fit for purpose . I have ask official to look at what we can do to strengthen that , and to avoid the sort of casual criminality we see just yesterday in the constituency of Lichfield , where waste from a construction site be abandon in the middle of a country lane , literally trap nine household in their house ; they be unable to leave . I understand that the Environment Agency have be in touch , and the council be work to clear that blockage . it be clear that , with this Government , the era of talking be over and the era of action be upon we , and there will be nowhere for these waste criminal to hide . the deposit return scheme be about have a more resource - resilient economy , and not be reliant on material bring in from overseas . the scheme under the statutory instrument that we be discuss be consistent with the " polluter pay " principle . give money back for bottle and can provide an incentive for people to do the right thing . it place obligation on drink producer , not consumer , to ensure that container be collect and recycle . we have set an ambitious target of collect 90 % of in - scope container by the third year of the scheme . I be confident that the public be with we . we know people hate litter in their park , in their countryside and on their street . as with plastic bag charge , once this be the norm , people will just get on with it . small change for individual will deliver huge national benefit . I will now turn to the detail of this instrument . lay in draft before the House on 25 November 2024 , this instrument establishe in England and Northern Ireland , and I can tell the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) that Minister Muir be the responsible Minister in Northern Ireland — I know it be Minister Muir . I respect the hon . Lady greatly , but what discussion have Minister Muir have with the Department , because I understand there have be none ? minister from down south be not responsible for Northern Ireland , we in Northern Ireland be and the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs Minister be . can the hon . Lady gee up her civil servant and tell we what be happen ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that my excellent official , lead by the estimable Clare Delaney , have be shepherd this through . they will have have extensive conversation with official . I meet with the Minister on the taskforce on woodland creation before Christmas as well , so we be in regular contact and I will make a point of discuss this with he — but I be sure the hon . Gentleman will make a point of discuss this with he as well . as I be sure the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) would attest , Keep Northern Ireland beautiful estimate that we have 420 million plastic bottle and 90 million can in Northern Ireland so we have a lot of work to do on reduction . the scheme be work really well in the Republic and I be an avid user of it when I be down south , but while it be a big draw into supermarket , particularly the multiple , be there any provision in place to help small retailer put the infrastructure in place so that they get a piece of the action as well ? my hon . friend make a good point . we have be engage extensively with the Association of Convenience Stores because it be imperative that they do not miss out or else we will end up with a scheme run by large retailer for large retailer . it be in the design of the scheme that the deposit management organisation which this instrument set up must have representative from large and small retailer on its board to ensure that the full voice be hear . in fact I be about to tell my hon . friend and the House about the detail of this . a person who be supply with drink in a container that be in scope of this instrument pay a deposit which can be redeem when it be return for recycling . the design be inform by well - establish international example and extensive industry engagement over many year — about seven year . industry partner have share their experience deliver these scheme across the world and the scheme will be centrally manage by an industry - lead , not - for - profit organisation : the deposit management organisation . the instrument apply to England and Northern Ireland . my official have work closely with the Scottish Government , who be amend their exist legislation so that we can launch compatible scheme simultaneously across England , Northern Ireland and Scotland in 2027 . the Welsh Government have withdraw from the four - nation DRS approach ; however , we be keen to remain in close working partnership with they as they make decision regard a drs in Wales . we be keen to keep the door open , to provide as much interoperability across the UK as possible . I acknowledge the work of the Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee , which draw this instrument to the special attention of the House on the ground that it be politically or legally important and give rise to issue of public policy likely to be of interest to the House . the instrument set out the scope of the scheme and place obligation on drink producer , importer and retailer . producer of drink in plastic and metal container will be obligate to label product and charge a deposit when supply the drink into England and Northern Ireland . they must also pay the deposit to the deposit management organisation along with the producer fee to fund the scheme . retailer across England and Northern Ireland will be obligate to participate in the scheme by charge a deposit on plastic and metal drink container , take the container back and refund the deposit . they be also require to pass the collect container to the deposit management organisation for recycling and to display information to consumer so that they understand how the scheme work . those obligation on producer and retailer across England and Northern Ireland will start from launch in October 2027 . to administer the scheme , the instrument require the appointment of a deposit management organisation . the instrument allow for certain provision to come into force on the day after it be make that be necessary for the appointment of the deposit management organisation and the establishment of the administrative arrangement . the Minister have be most generous in give way to member . she mention that the scheme will apply to plastic and metal drink container . what discussion have she have , or what information have her official gather , about the potential for manufacturer to switch their container to glass and the impact that might have on use of resource and climate change ? there have be talk of that , and I meet with the glass industry recently , but so far we have see no evidence of manufacturer switch . manufacturer must be part of the deposit management organisation , so they will pay under either EPR — extend producer responsibility for packaging — or DRS . Glass have be exclude from scope on the basis of extensive consultation . the DMO will be appoint in April 2025 . it will be obligate to : meet collection target ; pay return point operator for collect container ; recycle the collect container ; and pay national enforcement authority . the instrument provide power for the deposit management organisation to set deposit level , prescribe labelling , interact with other scheme , set producer fee , calculate handle fee for return point and exempt some retailer from host a return point . under the " polluter pay " principle , it be the responsibility of business to bear the cost of manage the packaging they place on the market . through specific return point exemption base on store size , proximity to another return point and suitable premise ground , this instrument will also protect small business across England and Northern Ireland , which we recognise be vital to our high street and community . further information have come to light since the question ask by the hon . member for Strangford . I be in contact with Minister Muir as we progress , but Northern Ireland have give DEFRA responsibility for deliver the scheme , so this statutory instrument have Northern Ireland ' s consent . I hope that answer his question . finally , the instrument make provision for monitoring and enforcement activity by the Environment Agency and by local authority trading standard officer to ensure obligated business and the deposit management organisation be compliant . this deposit return scheme will improve recycle rate and provide well quality material for recycling . [ interruption . ] be I ask to give way ? I do give way . I be sorry ; I be be quiet and shy , which I be well know for in this place . the Minister rightly point out that some of the responsibility will now fall to trading standard and local authority . can she give an undertaking to the House that , with that new responsibility , there may be some element of new burden funding so that local authority be properly resource to undertake the enforcement of this vital protection ? local authority have be give new burden funding to prepare for the simple recycling reform , but I will take my hon . friend ' s question back and endeavour to get an answer to he , hopefully by the end of this debate . who know , it could come soon . the DRS will improve recycle rate , and by give people money back on their bottle we transform their plastic and metal drink container from a waste stream to a resource stream . that will make a positive difference to every single street where we live . nobody want to see plastic and can litter our beach , river and sea , our road and our park . with this scheme , we will have less litter , less landfill and less harm to our precious wildlife , which be under such pressure , and we really will begin to turn back the plastic tide . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the Minister for set out the Government ' s position . let I place on record the substantial achievement of the last Conservative Government on recycle . this government do not like the fact , but let I give they some . in 2010 , 25 , 000 tonne of waste be send to landfill . by 2022 , the last year for which figure be available , that be just 13 , 000 tonne — a reduction of almost half . the Conservatives introduce new , straightforward and simple — labour will welcome simple — guidance on recycling by create standardised rule on what can be recycle to deliver that substantial achievement . some love to talk , while other quietly act and get on with the job . in my constituency in 2023 , Conservative - run West Sussex county council deliver a recycling rate of 53 % . for the same period , the Green and Labour - lead Brighton and Hove council , just next door , deliver a rate of only 30 % . who would have think that socialist would struggle to clean up their own mess ? thank to Conservatives , local authority be now require to collect a consistent set of recyclable waste and to ensure frequent collection , underpin a new recycling economy . let we be clear : labour - run local authority deliver the low level of recycle in this country , so the Government could fix this problem without come to this place to pass legislation . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? community in Conservative - control local authority be three time less likely to be subject to fly - tipping than in labour - run area . the Conservatives have a proud record of recycling , and the hon . Member clearly wish to applaud that , so I give way . I applaud any movement in the right direction . the hon . Gentleman compare local authority , but do he accept that many labour local authority have high - rise and tenement building , where collection be infinitely more difficult than in leafy suburb with individual detach house ? the hon . Gentleman know of what he speak , and of course I accept that there be wonderful variation across our whole country . that be precisely why I choose two neighbouring authority . what could be easy than collect from dense urban area , compare with the challenge and cost of have to collect waste across far - fling rural community such as those I represent ? perhaps later we will hear the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) explain exactly why that council , which drive itself into the ground , have such a poor record on recycling . rise — Fantastic , we do not have to wait . as the MP for Bristol Central , I can not speak directly on behalf of councillor for Brighton and Hove , other than to point out that my understanding be that their hand be tie by a deal that be agree by the previous Labour administration I hate to intrude on socialist grief , so let I move on . business leader make decision only when they have consider the context of all external factor , so it be important — I hope the Government agree — that we consider the statutory instrument in the context of the current headwind face by british business . right now , business across the land be work through the tough choice they will have to make to keep their business viable in the face of this Government ' s job - kill , investment - crush , growth - destroy Budget , because of choice this Government have make . it be this Government who choose to place enormous burden on business with their new tax on job . it be this Government who choose to halve business rate relief for retail and hospitality . it be this Government who be choose to push through their Employment Rights Bill , which will increase unemployment , as we see today , and prevent young people from ever get their first chance of a job . business confidence have be knock down and job be at risk , and it be no surprise when we consider that not a single person sit around the Cabinet table have real experience of run a business . no sector have be hit hard than retail and hospitality . the British Retail Consortium have say how Labour ' s Budget will increase inflation , slow pay growth , cause shop closure — the very shop that will have to participate in this scheme — and reduce job . the CBI have say that retail business have go into " crisis containment " . the Institute of Directors find that economic confidence have fall for a fourth month run — do anyone know what those four month have in common ? the number of business close have increase by 64 % since the Budget . that be the shocking reality and the context in which the Government seek to bring forward today ' s statutory instrument , put more burden and more cost on business . do my hon . friend agree that if the Government be really serious about reduce , reuse , recycle , they would put a moratorium on the construction of new waste incinerator , as we put in our manifesto in July ? if we now have a Conservative Government , there would be no more waste incinerator , include in Westbury , in my constituency , which would be match what the Welsh and Scots have already do . my right hon . friend make a very important point — I hope the Government be listen . that measure would not cost the economy anything , unlike this measure , which , accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , will cost the economy . in fact , it will represent a £ 288 million net cost impose on business every year , which be a £ 2 . 7 billion indirect cost over the 10 - year appraisal period . it will be another unsustainable cost heap on business , and an unwelcome addition to the grow headwind on enterprise that this Government have create . do my hon . friend share my concern that this measure will create not only headwind for business , but significant headwind for the local authority that use the recyclable and resaleable material from doorstep recycling to subsidise the cost of expand recycling service to all our resident ? by extract that valuable material from doorstep recycling , we risk push up the council tax need to subsidise recycling service for all . I agree with my hon . friend , who make a very important point . at its heart , it be a failure to identify the real harm that would justify the imposition of real cost on business at this enormously difficult time . the scheme will also have an impact on consumer , because it be ultimately consumer who will bear the burden . it be a highly regressive cost burden that will disproportionately hit those on the low income . research by the Association of Convenience Stores find that a disproportionate amount of people with long - term disability or age over 65 support the exist model of household collection , which be broadly work well , instead of the deposit return scheme . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I give way to the hon . Gentleman , who will hopefully speak about the aggressive nature of these proposal . I be slightly puzzled . in the Conservative Government ' s response to the previous Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee report , they commit to put these measure in place by 2025 . why have the Conservatives change their mind so dramatically ? give that it appear that the hon . Gentleman would reject these measure , how do he propose to achieve the target set under section 1 of the Environment Act 2021 , which his government bring forward and for which I commend they , which be suppose to reduce the number of kilogram of residual waste per capita by half , from 577 kg to 287 kg ? when the fact change , we change our mind . the conservative party be under new leadership and we will be unafraid to speak up for those in the economy who create the growth we so desperately need . if the hon . member would like I to do so , I would be very happy once again to go through the impact of labour ' s Budget on business — that growth - destroy , job - kill , economy - sap Budget . I would be very happy to go through that all night long , but I will make some progress . the cost of this measure be highly regressive and the Conservatives be not alone in voice concern . industry body , include the Association of Convenience Stores , ukhospitality and the British Soft Drinks Association , have raise objection to the cost of the scheme and its implementation . but it be not just business : the Scottish Government have also raise substantial concern . more tellingly , the Minister ' s Labour colleague in Wales have announce that they will pursue their own separate scheme . how astonishing — nice to see two labour - lead government work so very well together ! I be not entirely clear what the situation be in respect of Northern Ireland , notwithstanding the Minister ' s attempt to clarify that , but she certainly concede in her remark from the Dispatch Box that the scheme will not be interoperable on day one . well , 16 million people live within 50 mile of the border . for business , it be unconscionable that they be compel to deliver multiple scheme in multiple area without any guarantee or clarity about interoperability . I read in the weekend paper that all Ministers receive a note instruct they to cease anti - growth measure . the Minister and her colleague will have an abundance of anti - growth measure to pick from . in fact , I can not think of a single measure or policy that this Government have so far put forward that be at all pro - growth . in respect of this particular measure , it seem as if her Department do not read that memo , or if they do , they simply do not understand what it mean . the country need a Government who focus on do their key function well rather than roll out more red tape , however well intentione . as the official Opposition , it be our responsibility to speak up for business and our constituent when the Government get it wrong . the conservative party be under new management and we be unafraid to champion those who take risk , generate wealth and create the prosperity to pay for the public service that those on the Labour Benches be so keen on funding so well . the United Kingdom have a strong and proud record on recycling and the environment , build on work undertake by the previous Conservative Government , but circumstance have change or have be change by this Government , and when the fact change , so too must our policy . business be currently be subject to a barrage of anti - growth measure and policy , destroy investment , job and growth . this policy be , I be afraid , the wrong scheme at the wrong time . for that reason , those on the Conservative Benches will be oppose today ' s statutory instrument . rise — order . member will have see that the debate be oversubscribed , so I be go to impose an immediate four - minute time limit , with the exception of Front Benchers . I commend the previous Government for much of the work they do . I commend the fact that they put in place the Environment Act 2021 . I do so because it be really important that we adopt a bipartisan approach to these matter . when we be talk about the environment and climate change , yes in this Chamber we can have some political point scoring occasionally , but it be much more important that we create the bipartisan platform that mean successive government can build and work from it . I commend the Minister for introduce the measure so quickly . it be long overdue , and it will make an appreciable difference . I would love to know by exactly how many kilogram of residual waste per capita it will reduce our output , but give that each of we be produce 577 kg of residual waste every year , which be over half a tonne — and some of that be toxic waste — it be very important that we get on with this job . just a month ago we see a report from the Office for Environmental Protection which show very clearly that we be not on track to meet the target set in the Environment Act 2021 by 2042 . although I commend the Government for the action that they be take now and the urgency with which they have get on with this measure , I want to quote what the report say under the heading " progress in the reporting period " , which be 2023 - 24 : " the scale and pace of action do not align with the challenge . while flagship waste management policy have be develop , their introduction have be delay and they largely focus on end - of - pipe action . there be a lack of action focus on circular economy . " I be delighted that the Minister be introduce this measure and I commend the Government for do so , but we need even more , and we need it more quickly . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we Liberal Democrats welcome this initiative from the Government , although in our manifesto we go far and commit ourselves to introduce a deposit return scheme for food and drink bottle and container . we agree with the Government that a scheme of this kind will foster a nature - positive economy , tackle plastic pollution , and boost recycle effort across Britain . such scheme be a proven strategy worldwide to increase recycling while minimise waste and litter : they support our environmental goal while also provide an income stream that will protect our public fund . however , I have some concern about the scheme ' s implementation . the Environment Agency be currently underfunde and struggle to meet its regulatory obligation , particularly in respect of water quality , so we must ensure that this statutory instrument come with appropriate support and additional funding for the agency to handle this new responsibility effectively . the scheme should also be as convenient as possible for people , whether they be " on the go " or at home , and — as have already be mention — small business need support in order to transition smoothly into the new system . we must ensure that the introduction of a deposit return scheme do not add to their financial burden . we should be seek to work with small grocery business and convenience retailer to help they to introduce the scheme in an affordable way . I urge the Government to operate a joint scheme throughout the United Kingdom . the Food & Drink Federation have call for a join - up scheme across the UK , and only this morning I attend a roundtable event on the future of recycling where it be agree that different scheme in different part of the UK would make it extremely difficult for those in the industry . they operate throughout the UK , and it would not be viable for they to sell different product in the devolved nation ; moreover , they have no control over which part of the UK their product would be sell or deposit in . a can of soft drink purchase in Bristol should be deposit in the same way as one purchase in Cardiff . a single UK scheme , align in scope , fee , process and labelling , be essential to minimise cost and prevent confusion — and , in that context , it be important that we learn the lesson of the scottish deposit return scheme . we must also consider the important role that local authority will play in make the scheme work successfully , and ensure that they be properly support . that too have be mention during the debate . many local authority collect from the kerbside in bin or box , where recycling be co - mingled and then send on to another company , which sort and separate the recycle material . the cost to local authority for this service depend on whether item can be recycle for a profit by such company : if they can make a profit from the item that people recycle , council will be charge less . some council now worry that dry and mixed recycling will become less valuable if can be include in the deposit return scheme , which will lead to high cost for local authority , whose resource be already stretch . so far , DEFRA have commit to work to understand the impact of the drs on local authority , and I hope that it will be fully consider . the Liberal Democrats welcome the introduction of the deposit return scheme . we have some reservation about its implementation , but it be a positive step towards a more sustainable and green future . I be very proud that Beatson Clark manufacture glass right in the heart of my constituency and have do so for 270 year ; it employ 200 people directly and a further 2 , 000 in the supply chain . Glass can be recycle almost infinitely . currently , almost 74 % of glass be recycle , and 80 % of that come from kerbside collection . I recently meet representative of Beaston Clark and British Glass , and they all express grave concern about the impact of this Government ' s current policy on the glass sector . DEFRA ' s late figure show that the number of glass container place on the market in 2024 be 23 % low than early estimate . with increase pressure from import glass , the outlook for UK manufacturer be indeed grim . UK glass manufacturer be already under severe pressure . the failure to introduce tariff on import glass , predominantly from Turkey , have leave the industry face punish competition from overseas producer , who have significantly low energy cost and no carbon charge . although the move towards a circular economy as part of environmental improvement be laudable , it will ultimately be futile if the outcome be dependent on foreign import , with no environmental impact mitigation in place . can the Minister confirm whether import glass will face the same EPR , and who will be liable to pay it ? my hon . friend raise this issue with I prior to the debate . I have check with my official , and I be happy to confirm that the person who place the product — regardless of whether it be make in the UK or purchase from abroad — on the market will be responsible for pay the EPR fee on glass bottle . I rise happy than when I sit down . I thank the Minister for clarify that . the sector have legitimate concern that the DRS will lead to poor environmental outcome , with less recycled glass go back for remelt , as it will likely be crush in the process , thus render it unsuitable for its purpose . the drs could also cause storage and safety issue for both consumer and retailer , especially small shop . the Republic of Ireland do not include glass in its scheme . it be important to point out that the drs be not a reuse scheme ; it be a collection scheme . many people reminisce about the UK ' s old deposit scheme , but that be a deposit refill scheme , which be completely different from the propose drs . Wales have achieve a 90 % glass collection rate from kerbside collection without the need for DRS , and be rank second in the world for recycling . follow the Welsh Government ' s recent announcement that they will withdraw from the four - nation DRS and re - examine its scope , it seem to I and many other that the scheme will be ineffective across the UK . will the Minister tell we what consideration have be give to the Welsh blueprint for collection , which would be the simple way to improve recycling rate ? give that local authority receive money from the extend producer responsibility , it be a shame that the Government be not encourage they to use it to improve collection quality . the glass sector support the principle behind the extend producer responsibility , but it see the excessively high EPR fee on glass packaging as punishment for speak out . the arrangement in Germany be often cite , include by DEFRA , as a good example of an EPR scheme , yet its glass fee be more than 10 time low than the UK ' s , at € 28 per tonne . accord to the indicative figure recently announce by DEFRA , the fee will be £ 240 per tonne in the UK . in my discussion with the Minister last Monday , she confirm that the final EPR figure be unlikely to be finalise until June . how be a business mean to budget on that basis ? I urge she to take a serious look at the indicative figure to see if they can be reduce dramatically ; otherwise , we will lose the most recyclable sector . currently , per unit , glass be face significantly high fee than less recyclable , less circular material . that go against everything that other Government policy be try to achieve , and I ask the Minister if they be really confident that the EPR policy and other waste policy will lead to more recyclable packaging in the UK . far , the delay to the DRS mean that there be a two - and - a - half - year period when glass beverage container will be pay EPR fee while compete beverage container will not , due to be in the drs . put bluntly , this Government be drive business towards less recyclable packaging such as plastic in those two and a half year . it be never intend that EPR would be in place before the DRS , and this leave glass at a huge competitive disadvantage in the beverage market , which make up 80 % of the glass market . give the history and the uncertainty that still exist around the drs , it be vital that all material pay EPR fee until the DRS be fully functional , to create a level playing field for all beverage packaging . there be a backstop for 2028 , but can I ask the Minister to clarify whether the backstop fee will be backdate to April this year when EPR launch ? the Welsh food and drink sector be one of the flourish part of the Welsh economy , and it be home to nearly 230 , 000 much - need job in Wales . many of those business be locate in my constituency , and I be fortunate that many of they also come to the Royal Welsh Show in Builth Wells every July to show their ware in the food hall . many of those business be great example of rural entrepreneurship . they create job in place that seriously need they . I welcome the deposit return scheme , as do the Liberal Democrats , but we be listen to the concern of people in the industry , particularly in area such as mine , who have great reservation about the impact on the Welsh food and drink sector of have a scheme that do not work across all four nation . I therefore call on the Government to work closely with the Welsh Government to ensure that we do not have a situation whereby extra cost be impose on Welsh business to sell into England and the rest of the United Kingdom , and likewise that we do not have a situation in a couple of year ' time in which big manufacturer will not manufacture thing for the Welsh market because the extra cost be too heavy to bear . I again welcome the introduction of a deposit return scheme and lament the fact that the Conservatives never do this when they have plenty of opportunity . as chair of the Tidy Britain all - party parliamentary group , I want to thank you for allow I to speak in this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . the APPG and keep Britain Tidy have work on this issue for year , include under the chairship of my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . it be exciting to finally see change be deliver in today ' s regulation , and I congratulate the Minister on her speedy and no - nonsense approach to make this happen . I frequently visit local school and when I ask the child what they would like to see change in Ealing Southall , they always say they want less litter on the street . adult complain about litter all the time , of course , but I have not realise how much child be disturb by it . Litter make place feel unloved and it make the people who live in those place feel unloved too . it make it embarrassing to ask friend around to your house , and it be a daily reminder that your street and your family just do not matter . over the last 14 year , the amount of litter on our street have go up by a third : a tsunami of litter create by the previous Conservative Government , who slash the funding for local council to the bone . council such as my own in Ealing be leave have to spend about two third of their budget on adult and child ' s social care , with very little leave for anything else . they have to make impossible decision : spend money on pothole or library ; on playground or parking ; on street sweeper or youth worker . they be leave to rely on local volunteer litter picker such as lager can in Ealing , who do an amazing job , but they can not do it alone . it be great that this new Labour Government have increase funding for local council , and I be confident that the Chancellor ' s spend review in the spring will allow council to plan service well , but let we be honest that pick up litter after people be a total waste of money . that money could be much well spend on more playground or youth club . the real solution be to stop the litter in the first place . what if people be reward for recycle their litter instead of drop it on the street ? what if they get money back ? that be exactly what this Labour Government be do today . we be make recycling pay . these new rule mean that shop across the country will be fit out with reverse vend machine that give people money back for their use plastic bottle and can . I have try out the machine in the shop beside my mum ' s house in Ireland , and it be simple and easy to use . People feed in their empty , and they get a voucher for their money back . since be introduce in Ireland in February last year , reverse vend machine have already increase recycling and reduce litter on the street . right now , bin in street , park and beach across the UK be chock - full of empty plastic bottle and can . think what a difference it would make if all those bottle and can go back to the shop instead . we would end the problem of overflow bin on the high street forever . in Ealing , a massive 41 % of all report fly - tip be black sack fly - tip contain household waste such as empty plastic bottle and can , so make recycling pay would also reduce fly - tipping . the previous Government know that this make sense as long ago as 2017 , but they dither , delay and fight among themselves . today , we have see a total u - turn , with Conservative Members fight against their own policy . again , they prove that they be on the side of the vested interest , the polluter and the litter bug . two school in my constituency come to see I this week , and they say that this make sense and will reduce litter on the street . even the child know that this be the right thing to do . today we be end the conservative record of dither and delay , and their deplorable refusal to do anything about so many community that feel neglect and uncare for . the only way to get rid of litter on our street be to stop people drop it in the first place . this new plan to make recycling pay will help clean up our street and park , our river and beach , and put money back in people ' s pocket . none of we be against the idea of recycle and reusing , and it be important that we have a plan of action to do that . however , in the light of the question I have ask about what be happen back home , my concern be that we do not know exactly what Northern Ireland ' s input into the process will be . it seem that there be none . the idea of a deposit return scheme be not new . when I be a child , which be not yesterday , the Maine man bring fizzy drink to our door . my parent be extremely displeased if we child smash the bottle , in which case the money would not come back for their recycling — we understand that we would be in trouble . that scheme work , and it be the kind of scheme we would like to see . we need to reuse bottle , and we can do that only with co - operation and buy - in from the general public . my local church and other have raise fund to run their campaigner clan and missionary project by ask their congregation and kid to bring in drink can . they industriously hoover the road to collect the can , which they crush and bring to the Bryson recycling scheme in Belfast for cash . the money raise be send to the missionary in Swaziland and be use for Campaigner clan equipment . though the scheme run for a set period , the church have continue to do it . there be many such scheme in Northern Ireland . the Minister know that I be fond of she , and I be not here to cast any aspersion or cause any hassle , but we understand that 12 billion plastic bottle and 14 billion drink can be sell in the United Kingdom each year . we need to consider something different . I thank the civil servant . I be not give they a hard time , but I want to know the answer to my question . we need to understand the difference between the Republic of Ireland scheme and the one be propose here . to use a biblical term , how can oil and water mix , and the water be good enough to drink and the oil good enough to put in a car ? my point be that if there be two completely different scheme , with different goal , in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland , we need to ensure that the matter be look at in a sensible way . our colleague who be member of the Legislative Assembly do not know about the scheme either , so we have a very vague system before we . I know that we be all commit to try to do something well and different . we take our bottle to the bottle bank every week , and the council collect they ; and we recycle our plastic and paper through the blue bin system , and we wholeheartedly support that ; but there be something very wrong about the Minister bring forward a scheme that the mla in Northern Ireland do not know anything about . I understand that the Minister say that the Northern Ireland Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs have give DEFRA authority to carry out the scheme , but which Member of the Legislative Assembly give the go - ahead ? those be my question . we understand the reason for the scheme in principle , but it be vague and generalise , and there have not be proper input from the Northern Ireland Assembly . it be always a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I wholeheartedly support the Minister and the Government on this important matter . I want to highlight a few brief point in the time I have available , and underline the point make by many other member about the importance of tackle litter , tidy up , make community seem love and help local resident , as well as the important complementary point about protect wildlife . bottle and other packaging be a menace to small mammal , fish and other wildlife , and an eyesore in river and on the coast . that need to be tackle , so I wholeheartedly welcome the measure . I will cover three point : I will discuss an aspect of the difficult work under way to tackle the problem of litter , highlight the grow scale of the challenge of litter , and underline the importance of behaviour change , which be rightly at the heart of the Government ' s policy . may I , like other member , say a few word of thank to the wonderful volunteer and organisation in my area that carry out admirable work to deal with litter ? much of that work be completely unpaid and unrewarde in any financial way , but it give people a huge sense of wellbeing , and they have the support and understanding of their community for tackle litter . keep Caversham Tidy be a local group set up by a group of friend during the pandemic . since then , it have flourish , and I have the pleasure of go out to help the group . its work illustrate the practical problem that local authority and voluntary group face . when we be clear up in Christchurch Meadows in Caversham , near the River Thames in Reading , we could see a lot of deeply embed waste , include drink can and bottle , bury behind park bench and log in the large park . that litter could have cause damage to wildlife , and it be an eyesore and a menace to resident use the park . there be also a risk of it get into the River Thames , and once waste be in a river , it can travel out to sea and cause untold damage there . good work be undertake by many local group in the read area , particularly by Katesgrove Community Association , which have deal with two fly - tip pile of rubbish in the last couple of day , despite the cold weather . the work of those volunteer support the enormous amount of work undertake by landowner and local authority . that work be unrelenting . our council take the issue extremely seriously . it have drive up the recycling rate to well over 50 % and introduce food waste recycling , along with other measure . it will shortly introduce doorstep glass recycling , although some glass will not be cover by the scheme . however , the council struggle enormously because of a whole series of practical problem ; I will come to that later . it even have a lorry that drive round read constantly pick up fly - tip waste that be report . that be the scale of the problem that it be try to tackle . to give an illustration , I be recently talk to resident in Waldeck Street , near Whitley Street council estate in Reading , and we could see pile of fly - tip rubbish , include household waste , bottle and other form of packaging . there be a link , as be highlight early , between fly - tipping and drink carton and container . the Minister be on the right path in give people an incentive to recycle , so that waste do not get into the illegal waste stream , include through fly - tipping . the evidence from around the world be really clear . I remember the tail end of the scheme that the hon . member for Strangford describe ; there be an incentive in the UK to return bottle as recently as the 1980 or ' 90 . let we go back to that . I and the Green party welcome this scheme ; however , I be disappointed to see a deposit return scheme that do not include glass . implement a deposit return scheme that include glass be really not unprecedented ; it be absolutely possible . in fact , there be around 50 scheme around the world , 46 of which include glass . the remain four do not , but that be only because there be a separate glass scheme . while I welcome the progress , which I be sure will help , will the Government look at this again , and work closely with the Welsh Government to see how glass can be include ? on a tangentially relate note , I want to quickly respond to the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , who appear to have step out of the Chamber . since my response to he early , a resident of Brighton and Hove have be in touch — the hon . Member may regret have raise this — to explain that the 25 - year private finance initiative deal that Brighton and Hove council be lock into , which heavily restrict the range of product that could be recycle , be originally bring in by a Labour Administration , but be later extend by a conservative one . I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s commitment to introduce a deposit return scheme . the policy be long overdue and will help we to tackle the rise tide of waste and pollution that have blight our countryside and our environment for too long . it be a source of great pride to represent Rushcliffe in this House . the borough of Rushcliffe boast the high recycling rate in Nottinghamshire , but we know that we can , and must , go far . my constituent care deeply about the environment , and they rightly expect this Government to show ambition and leadership in address the waste crisis . the Conservatives first promise a deposit return scheme around 2018 — more than six year ago — yet there be nothing to show for it . their failure have sadly mean that countless plastic bottle , can and other type of packaging have continue to pollute our street , river and sea . I be fortunate enough to work and spend time in Ireland for 18 month prior to the general election , so I have see at first hand the deposit return scheme there . in the first few month after implementation , the number of unit recycle per month grow from around 2 million to more than 100 million ; 630 million container be recycle in the first 10 month of operation . I hope that we could achieve similar rate of uptake in the UK . by bring forward a deposit return scheme that work by 2027 , not just for the environment but for business , consumer and local authority , this Labour Government will finally deliver what the country need . we must , as we promise in our manifesto , empower individual to play their part in a circular economy . for that reason , I welcome the Government ' s recent announcement about tight rule on incinerator . I have write to the Secretary of State about a proposal for an incinerator at Ratcliffe - on - Soar power station in my constituency . the proposal be near the end of its planning permission . for many year , local campaign group have call out their concern about that project , and I look forward to the Secretary of State ' s reply to my letter in due course . the benefit of this scheme be clear . it will collect , recycle and reuse valuable material that would otherwise end up as waste . it will preserve our countryside , protect wildlife and restore pride in our local community . significantly , it will drive economic growth , create 21 , 000 green job and unlock more than £ 10 billion of investment in recycle infrastructure over the next decade . the consequence of inaction — litter - strew street , polluted waterway and increase fly - tipping — be all too visible . the deposit return scheme represent a common - sense solution that not only clean up our environment , but foster a culture of sustainability and personal responsibility . with this policy , we be not only clean up our environment , but chart a course towards a clean , green and more sustainable future . I wholeheartedly support this scheme , and urge all member to do the same . grow up , it be second nature for we to rinse out our milk bottle and put they out for the milkman to collect the next day . it be a very simple system , and it work . then come the rise of single - use plastic , and for a while we convince ourselves that recycling be enough . we feel that as long as we put our plastic bottle in the right bin , they would be deal with responsibly , but that view completely change when we discover what be really happen to some of our export waste . Britain be the large exporter of waste to Turkey last year ; in 2023 , it export more than 140 , 000 tonne . we have also learn that so - call energy from waste plant be produce harmful emission , much of they from burn plastic waste that could have be reuse . I have see in my east Devon constituency the effect of plastic not make it into the recycling bin at all . the UK go through an estimate 14 billion plastic bottle every year . they wash up on beautiful beach in Sidmouth , Seaton and Beer . in 2019 , volunteer collect waste along Devon ' s beach find 12 , 000 piece of plastic in one day . group such as Sidmouth Plastic warrior do fantastic work as volunteer to clean up , but they should not have to . last year , child from Sidmouth primary school create a message - in - a - bottle exhibit , which highlight the problem of plastic waste in Devon ' s sea . their message be eye - opening . one child write : " I want to swim in the sea with fish , not rubbish . " another specifically direct her message to mps , say : " whatever you ' re do it ' s not enough . " another simply write , " deed , not word " . their word be a powerful reminder , for I at least , that although we must lead , we can also follow the example of other country . while serve in Germany with the British Army , we find that return empty to the supermarket be just part of the weekly shop . it become a habit , like take a reusable bag to the supermarket . when I come back to the UK , I be strike by the difference . in Germany , one rarely see plastic bottle on the ground . here , they be in our verge , in our hedgerow and in our waterway . a deposit return scheme will help . by charge a small deposit when a bottle or can be buy and refund it when the bottle be return , we be create an incentive to reuse . however , the decision to exclude glass bottle mean that we could miss an opportunity . Glass be one of the most polluting form of litter . it be dangerous to livestock in the countryside , and to wildlife . in Wales and Scotland , different scheme be be consider , but have vary regulatory regime in our four nation could bring additional cost and challenge . the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) ask whether producer might shift from plastic to glass if that mean not incur cost associate with the introduction of the deposit return scheme , which be an excellent question . if there be that unintended consequence , we could see heavy good be transport around the country , and increase carbon emission . overall , we need a deposit return scheme . Devon ' s landscape and coastline need it . this time for half measure be over . we need real action , include on glass , across the whole country . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to bring forward the deposit return scheme . in my constituency , we have a dedicated community of volunteer litter picker who work tirelessly to ensure that our environment be free from litter . however , their job be never - end . a member of the Castle Donington Litter Wombles visit I recently to highlight the litter issue on the lay - bys of the a453 between Donington service and East Midlands Gateway . in her correspondence to I , she say , " womble have litter pick these lie - bys numerous time — and we have pick over 1000 bag from these location since 2021 , but it ' s just a thankless task and be extremely disheartening to see they full of litter again within a matter of day . " everyone in the Chamber will have a group of dedicated volunteer litter pick in their community , and we owe a great deal of thank to they . we need to act to help they reduce the level of litter locally , but we face a grow environmental crisis and there must be an end in sight . keep Britain Tidy have find that small plastic bottle and non - alcoholic can make up 43 % of all litter . single - use plastic be pollute our community . a lot of that plastic never reach the recycling plant ; it be drop on the floor , put in the wrong bin or toss out the window on the motorway . the Conservative Government promise a deposit return scheme for recycle bottle and consistently delay its introduction , but when this Labour Government say we be committed to clean up our street , park , river and ocean , we mean it . the deposit return scheme will provide an incentive for people to keep our street clean and will make we all conscious of the plastic we use . when Germany implement a scheme — gosh , a couple decade ago — it report a 98 % return rate , show the potential we have here . meanwhile , in this country , a National Highways survey last year find that 63 % of people have see somebody discard litter out the window on the side of an a - road or motorway . that have a devastating impact on our wildlife : the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals have receive more than 10 , 000 report of animal find injure , trap or dead in discard litter over the past three year . highway and busy road be far too dangerous for our volunteer to venture on to , and they should not have to . keep our environment clean be a collective responsibility . we have to start at the source , and I be pleased that we have a Government who be finally take action and deliver on our environmental commitment . introduce the deposit return scheme will kick - start an economy - wide transformation in our relationship with the resource we use and on tackle waste , but it would be useful if the Minister outline how convenience store in rural constituency such as mine will play their part and how they will ensure that all retailer can get involve in the scheme . I be grateful to have a Government who recognise the need to encourage people to recycle , reduce their waste and make more sustainable choice , which will go a long way towards protect and preserve our planet for this generation and those to come . I welcome the regulation , which be as important as they be long overdue . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for the zeal she have bring to her role in ensure that after several year of dither and delay , we finally have a Bill to bring this important measure forward . for far too long , we as a society have not grapple with the blight of plastic pollution and litter . with over 75 % of the litter across our high street make up of the type of drink bottle we be talk about , the measure will be an important way of tackle issue that we know our community care about . fantastic local group such as Plastic Free Hitchin and Shefford , litter picking association and other community group in my constituency play their part , do everything they can to keep my community and the countryside clear of litter . we owe it to they to ensure that as a government we do our bit , too . back in 2018 , the previous Government confirm that they be look at the idea of such a measure , so it be a matter of great regret that we have wait so many year for one and that the opposition have provide little support for it today . that lose time should not just be cause for embarrassment , as we have see so many other country steal a run on the measure and introduce a scheme that have be show to work in jurisdiction after jurisdiction . that failure be literally litter all across our countryside . the path that make my community so special and our river , lake , ocean and beach that we be all so proud of as a country be litter with plastic pollution that could have be tackle have the measure be bring forward early . we know that where similar scheme have be introduce across the world there have be real benefit . there have be dramatic increase in return — 90 % and above be quite typical for such plastic return scheme , but the current rate for our kerbside collection scheme be just 70 % . we can ensure that we be do more to improve circularity and the collection of virgin plastic so that we have the high - quality supply stream for recyclability that the industry be cry out for — that be why the Food & Drink Federation support the measure . and we can ensure that we tackle litter , to address the issue that be blight too many of our community . give the need to act at pace , which be so lacking under the previous Government , I absolutely understand why we be focus on important quick win . however , it would be remiss of I not to address a wide recycling issue in my community that I have raise several time with the Minister : metal recycling . five time in the last year , people in Hitchin have wake up to plume of smoke and possible contamination in the air , as time and again local metal recycling plant have catch fire , often trigger by lithium - ion battery make their way into the waste source . by work together — and try to knock head together — between council , the Environment Agency and other authority with a remit , we be look to make progress , but there be clearly also a case for national action to ensure that the Environment Agency have the power it need to address that problem at source , and that we have wide measure on the recycling of lithium - ion battery to reduce the risk of their end up as contaminant in metal recycling in the first place . I will continue to press the Minister on that , but I know from my conversation with she that she be alive to the risk in that space . I hope that , over the course of this Parliament , we can deliver real change on that , too . in the meantime , I be incredibly proud to support this important measure . ensure that we learn from the success and challenge face other jurisdiction will be important , as will ensure that we have the right level of deposit , the right infrastructure in place , and the right support for small retailer to take part in the scheme . I thank my hon . friend for his excellent speech . he make a valid point about the importance of the measure not only for the environment but for business and retailer . do he agree that this legislation , which be , as he point out , absolutely overdue , will benefit not only the environment and our womble — we also have some in Harlow — but business , too ? absolutely . it will be important to establish close collaboration to ensure that the scheme be as effective as possible . there be a reason the Food & Drink Federation support the measure : without they , it will not have the supply of high - quality recycle plastic need to hit the target that it be so keen to hit and be often already commit to . without the legislation , those target become almost impossible . I will conclude my remark by build on those of my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) , who highlight the historical importance of good cross - party consensus and the importance of climate and nature issue . for a long time , this measure have cross - party support , and it be deeply regrettable that that do not seem to be the case today . I take some heart from the Conservatives ' lack of enthusiasm to leap in and speak bombastically about their newfound opposition to the measure , which I hope be a sign that there may be space in the come month to work more collaboratively to ensure that we support the measure to be as effective as possible . I be incredibly grateful to the Minister for lend I her ear on the important issue of metal recycling in Hitchin , and for the leadership that she have show on this legislation , which will make a real difference for my community and those across the country . it be about time that we lead on make it a reality . I call the Minister . what a tour de force this have be across the House , apart from the tumbleweed silence of the official Opposition . where be the former DEFRA Ministers , have be muscle out of this debate ? where be the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , who , as late as April 2024 , be speak enthusiastically about how he be move ahead with implement a deposit return scheme for single - use drink container by October 2027 ? they be miss in action — the long - term view muscle out for a short - term hit of political opposition . I be old enough to remember when the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) be a Minister . presumably he sign off on the write - round on the Environment Act 2021 , which introduce the enable legislation for many of the reform that we be bring in . Amnesia seem to be a rather convenient illness among the Conservative Front Benchers . let I answer some of the point raise in the debate . my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) ask about metal . I hope that we will not have to wait for a whole Parliament before we make progress on tackle the issue in the metal and tyre recycle business . as he be aware , we have also ban single - use vape to tackle the battery fire they cause . I will work with other Ministers across Government to consider how to tackle the grow problem of lithium battery fire . Glass be exclude from the drs in England , Northern Ireland and Scotland . the Government ' s position be that glass would add considerable up - front cost and create complex challenge for the delivery of the drs , particularly in the hospitality and retail sector , as well as disproportionately impact small brewery . it would be inconvenient for consumer due to its weight and its potential for breakage in transit to a return point . glass drink container across the UK be include in the extend producer responsibility for packaging scheme to ensure they be efficiently and effectively recycle , and the glass recycle target within that scheme have be increase from 83 % by 2030 to 85 % . we be also consider how reuse system could be develop in the future , and I have meet representative of the drink industry in the last fortnight to discuss that . we will not let the perfect be the enemy of the good when bring in these regulation . on Wales , waste be a devolved issue . how a future scheme work in Wales will be for Welsh Government Ministers to determine , and we will continue to work with devolved government and industry as we progress the drs . will the Minister give way ? I be go to finish my point , and if there be time at the end , I will take intervention . we be very short of time . turn to material switching , a 2023 report from Reloop and the Container Recycling Institute consider numerous international example of introduction and expansion of a drs , and conclude that there be no evidence of this cause an observed decline in sale of in - scope product . on small retailer , we have engage with retail — as I say early — and we can confirm that retail premise under 100 square metre in an urban area will be automatically exempt from the DRS retailer obligation , which will support some of the small retailer . although those retailer large than 100 square metre will be require to host a return point , they will be able to determine whether a manual return point or a small reverse vend machine would be good for their store style , with support from the dmo . evidence from other area that have introduce these scheme show that some very small retailer enjoy host return and be keen to experience the additional footfall they bring . on local authority , there will be new burden funding for trading standard , and the DRS will collect at least 90 % of container by year 3 . this will have a vary impact on local authority : they will miss out on the sale of material , but will make saving of around £ 30 million from have to collect less litter , so I think we will see a positive impact there . on incinerator , the residual waste capacity note that we publish on 30 December show that there be certain area in England where significant volume of household waste be still send to landfill , and we landfill far too much non - household waste . dispose of waste in landfill have a great negative environmental impact than recover energy through incineration , but this do not take away from our commitment to minimise residual waste . the new condition we have set out will support economic growth and will drive our push to net zero and our plan for change . turn to interoperability in Northern Ireland , the scheme will of course be interoperable across England , Scotland and Northern Ireland , but although there be a separate scheme in the Republic of Ireland — on that point , will the Minister give way ? no , I be go to make my point and then give way at the end if there be time . although there be a separate scheme in the Republic of Ireland , these regulation allow the DMO to work with other scheme administrator , such as Re - turn in the Republic of Ireland . that mean that once the scheme be establish , its administrator have the option of collectively develop operational solution and create alignment for the benefit of consumer in both country . official have visit the Republic of Ireland and speak regularly to re - turn , so the opportunity to work together , to align and to learn from Ireland be there , and they be very positive . I will ensure that Members of the Legislative Assembly be invite , and I be very happy to keep the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) inform . on regulator cost — an issue that be raise by the Liberal Democrat Front - Bench spokesperson , the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) — the Environment Agency will be fund for its regulatory cost by the DMO . there be check and balance in place to ensure that this be proportionate . in conclusion , we be hear the same circular argument from the Conservatives . their government talk but do not act , and they allow dither and delay to dog the reform . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) how depressing it be for local litter group to have to step in and pick up the piece where conservative cut have result in cut to street sweeping and cleaning . frankly , theirs be a Herculean task that should not be necessary , but they be clean out the augean stable . today be the beginning of the end of that community clear - up . we be literally throw money into the gutter , and hear the same old attack line be recycle , although by different shadow Ministers , to be fair — there be fresh face . this be not the end of litter , but it be the beginning of the end of litter in this country . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) for take the time to listen to the next generation who will benefit from these reform . I , too , wish to swim with the fish , not with rubbish . I , too , be a believer in deed , not word . on the Opposition Benches , conservative Members love to talk ; on this side of the House , we love to do . that be the difference a Labour Government will make . question put . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Sorcha Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Gerald Jones Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Alex Easton Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 352 , Noes 75 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that the draft Deposit Scheme for Drinks Containers ( England and Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 25 November 2024 , be approve . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Speaker and the Deputy Speakers have be helpful and generous in allow we to raise the case , use various parliamentary mechanism , of Mr Alaa Abd el - Fattah , a british citizen who be still imprison in Egypt . I understand that the Foreign Secretary be to visit Egypt either tomorrow or the day after . have you hear , Madam Deputy Speaker , whether there may be a written or oral statement from the Foreign Office about the Foreign Secretary raise Mr el - Fattah ' s case , insist upon his release or at least seek a visit to this british citizen in prison ? it be a matter of urgency , because his mother be now beyond the 100th day of hunger strike , and I fear for her life . I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of his point of order . I have have no indication that the Foreign Secretary intend to come to the House to make a statement , but I be sure that the Table Office will be able to advise he on how he might pursue the matter far . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to correct the record follow my intervention on the New Homes ( Solar Generation ) Bill on Friday . I say : " regulation be due to come into force in 2016 that would have require all new home to have zero carbon standard . those regulation be scrap by the coalition Government . " — [ Official Report , 17 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 631 . ] in fact , regulation that would have require all new home to have zero carbon standard be due to come into force in 2016 , but they be water down by the coalition Government in 2014 , and the requirement for all new home to have zero carbon standard be scrap . what be leave of the water - down regulation be subsequently scrap by the following Conservative Government in 2015 . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order and for place his correction of his early statement on the record . far to the point of order make by my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , in the absence of any statement or urgent question be grant on the visit that the Foreign Secretary be hopefully make to Egypt on the fate of british prisoner Alaa Abd el - Fattah , and give the very serious condition of his mother — an academic from Sussex who be on a hunger strike and only take water , and who a number of member meet today — can you advise , Madam Deputy Speaker , on what other way we can impress upon the Foreign Secretary the urgency of this issue ? every single day matter in what could be a life or death situation for his mother . I believe that my early response to the similar point of order offer enough information , but no doubt by raise the point again , minister on the Front Bench will have hear again . the hon . member ' s point be on the record . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I be here for the next motion and as the Leader of the House responsible for statement to this House , let I reassure member that I will raise this issue with the Foreign Secretary , who be very forthcoming — he have be to the House twice in the past week to make statement to keep the House update . I be sure that he will want to keep the House update on his conversation in Egypt and elsewhere , and I will ensure that the point of order have be hear . I thank the Leader of the House for a great response to those two point of order . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 5 to 7 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft reporting on Payment Practices and Performance ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 October 2024 , be approve . agriculture that the draft Free - Range Egg Marketing Standards ( Amendment ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 November 2024 , be approve . bank and Banking that the draft Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited Compensation Scheme Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 6 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . House of Commons Members ' Fund Ordered , that Sir Marcus Jones and Craig Whittaker be remove as Trustees of the House of Commons Members ' Fund and Sharon Hodgson and Mike Wood be appoint as Trustees in pursuance of section 2 of the House of Commons Members ' Fund Act 2016 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) W12 and W14 bus service in north - east London recent change to bus service run through Leyton and Wanstead have have significant negative impact on local people , include on school child , who be struggle to get to school on time , and on my disabled and elderly constituent , all of whom be find it hard to access care at Whipps Cross hospital due to the change . our petition to Parliament , sign by resident and local councillor , build on an online petition to Transport for London with almost 4 , 500 signature . More action be need to address this issue . the petitioner " therefore request that the House of Commons urge … transport for London to immediately reconsider the change make to ensure that the negative impact cause by these change to the W12 and W14 bus service in north - east London be address urgently . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Leyton and Wanstead , declare that recent change to the W12 and W14 bus service in north - east London have have negative impact which must be address . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage Transport for London to immediately reconsider the change make to ensure that the negative impact cause by these change to the W12 and W14 bus service in north - east London be address urgently . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003032 ] Petition - Haddiscoe gravel pit application I rise to present a petition about the propose quarry in Haddiscoe , and I really hope that the Government will take note of the 242 petitioner who have sign it . this demonstrate that an overwhelming majority of resident wish for the Government to know how much this quarry will undermine the health and wellbeing of the village . the petition state : " the petition of resident of the constituency of South Norfolk , declare that the potential for a future gravel pit near Crab Apple Lane in Haddiscoe be a serious concern … the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that planning and mineral strategy consider issue such as air pollution and local opinion . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of South Norfolk , declare that the potential for a future gravel pit near Crab Apple Lane in Haddiscoe be a serious concern to resident , that an application for a gravel pit in the same location have previously be reject due to concern about harm to Grade 1 list building and the impact of increase noise , dust and traffic , and that these concern remain . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that planning and mineral strategy consider issue such as air pollution and local opinion . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003033 ] Stourport Relief Road Fund Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) it be a great pleasure to raise the issue of the Stourport relief road in this Adjournment debate . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will be well aware that Worcestershire be an astonishingly beautiful county , and Wyre Forest in the north of the county be a perfect example of what Worcestershire have to offer . we have the forest and the hill , not one but two georgian town , and the River Severn , with its astonishing valley and heritage railway . the River Severn , the long river in the UK , be a fabulous source not just of natural beauty but of water to the 8 million customer of Severn Trent , and it also divide Worcestershire and my constituency in two half . inevitably , this lead to cross pinch point , and along the stretch of the Severn that run through Worcestershire there be surprisingly few crossing point . the city of Worcester enjoy a number , but , to the north of Worcester , there be just four point to cross east - west before get into Shropshire ; even then , the next crossing point be in Bridgnorth , 15 mile to the north of Bewdley . of the four bridge on the 38 - mile stretch between Worcester and Bridgnorth , three be build by the Victorians and be not fit for 21st - century traffic . just one bridge be build in the 20th century , and that be the only bridge that can really take any heavy usage . the most recent bridge , the Bewdley bypass , be build to support the east - west traffic and relieve Bewdley of heavy congestion through the town centre , which have , for a long time , be on a major route from the midland to Wales . however , with the incredibly welcome flood defence work go on at the moment in Bewdley , the bridge have necessarily be close to two - way traffic , increase the burden on other local infrastructure , and the congestion have inevitably put pressure on other crossing . of course , the flood defence will be complete by this summer , and normal service will resume in Bewdley . however , the problem remind we why , four or five decade ago , proposal be put forward for a relief road for the town of stourport - on - Severn , just to the south of Bewdley . as a parliamentary candidate back in 2004 , I get hold of a set of 14 proposal for road improvement for Stourport , from minor town centre improvement to the full £ 14 million — at the time — bypass . it be important to remember the problem these proposal be try to solve . stourport have a complicated town centre , with a one - way system that everybody accept be far from ideal . it be try hard — and , by the way , succeed — to be a tourist destination town , attract a lot of people from Birmingham . yet because of its location and layout , many of the car in the town centre be not there to be in Stourport , but in Stourport to be on their way to somewhere else . it be important to remember that this stretch of the River Severn in Wyre Forest have a dense population than the wide rural community , with 102 , 000 people live in the three town of Stourport , Bewdley and Kidderminster . as I say , it be an incredibly important conurbation in Worcestershire . of the 14 proposal , the most ambitious for stourport be the most popular at the time . it propose take a road from the busy stourport to Kidderminster dual carriageway , run around the town to the south use exist road that be at the time design to take the Stourport relief road and old railway track that have be close under the beeche reform , and then cross the River Severn head west and land in the cricket club , before continue its semi - circular route to join the a451 to Dunley . it then head off to the western part of Worcestershire and then on to Wales , provide a major route to Wales . that be a popular proposal and it be signal for further investigation and development . back in 2010 , the cricket club be look for Sport England ' s support but be unable to secure it due to plan blight — the prospect that at any time it may find itself bisect by the new Stourport relief road — so the proposal be shelve . although they never disappear , they be not move on . since then , the Stourport relief road have be talk about as a lost opportunity , a myth and a piece of cultural history that a few people remember . so what have change ? what have happen since then ? why be this now something that need revive ? I mention early that the flood defence work have temporarily bring extra pressure on Wyre Forest ' s river crossing , but that will be resolve in the summer . however , the local population be due to increase significantly . Wyre Forest district council recently publish its local plan , under which nearly 5 , 000 new home will be build across the district . around 1 , 400 of those will be in Stourport and that will , inevitably , increase pressure on local infrastructure . that be an 11 % increase in housing stock across the district , and a 13 % increase in stourport itself . the problem be more profound . to the west of Stourport , directly adjacent to the Stourport suburb of Areley king , be an area of beauty know as the Snipes . it be right up against Stourport , but be in Malvern Hills district council ' s area . Malvern Hills district council be a multi - party coalition and it have fail to come up with a local housing plan . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this issue forward . I speak to he beforehand to get his thought on what he be ask for . he be ask for what I have ask for in my town of Ballynahinch in Strangford : a road to bypass small town so they be not decimate by through - traffic . we have be wait for that for almost two decade . do he agree we need to ensure the Government understand that investment in such road will bring regeneration to small town and can very well be a rise tide that lift all boat ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . he hit the nail on the head . I will be address these point a little later in my speech , but if we want to generate economic growth we need to build the infrastructure first — the growth will follow . come back to Stourport and what be go on in the Snipes and with Malvern Hill district councillor , a number of developer put in an application to build 500 to 1 , 000 house . it be meet with absolute disdain by Malvern Hills district council , Wyre Forest district council , local parish council , town councillor , I and my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) . we all reject it , but when it go to appeal , the Planning Inspectorate rule that Malvern Hills district council have an unmet plan demand and accordingly grant planning permission against the wish of literally everybody . through a quirk of geography , local government boundary and poor management by politician in Malvern Hills , Stourport will see hundred if not thousand more home rely on its town centre and facility , but come from outside the district . and it get even bad . the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government tell we that in Wyre Forest , we be to build an extra 617 new home ever year for the next five year , put yet more burden on the local infrastructure . that be just Wyre Forest ; the total for the whole of Worcestershire be 5 , 300 home a year . add to that 1 , 375 home for Herefordshire and 1 , 200 for Shropshire — that be every year — and one can see how the congestion on River severn crossing pinch point will increase significantly . a lot of that will come through the point in Worcestershire where the three county meet . the argument for the Stourport relief road have never be strong . it be time to revisit what be propose . I do not profess to be a transport infrastructure expert , and I certainly do not fully understand traffic flow , but I can understand what it be like to be stick in a traffic jam . the current 20 - year - old proposal may still be perfect , but my instinct be that we need to look again at the whole issue of traffic across the Severn in Wyre Forest , and at how traffic flow across the river . it may be that we need to look at how to join the Bewdley bypass with a road head south , to the west of the new , unwelcome home in the Snipes to the west of the river , that then cross the Severn to the south of the cricket club , join the Worcestershire a449 ; or it may be that the Bewdley bypass should continue when it land on the eastern side of the bank , as be originally envisage , between Kidderminster and Stourport , bypass our main town to the south - east and join the bypass with the A451 Kidderminster Road and the A449 Worcester Road , go on through the A448 Bromsgrove Road and up to the A456 Birmingham road — all of that add to the exist Stourport relief road and effectively join all the major road that serve Wyre Forest . this would deliver a comprehensive and very long - term solution . all this be for the expert , and for the community to unite behind . I have already speak to Marc Bayliss , the Worcestershire county council cabinet member responsible for highway and transport . he agree that this be an opportunity , and have indicate that it will be work up and include in plan for the county . the county council be keen to progress our local infrastructure need , but it need clarity . it be keen to draw up local transport plan 5 , but need guidance from the Minister ' s Department on what be expect of it . my ask be for that guidance to encourage local road scheme such as the one I be suggest , a scheme that will bring not just a relief of traffic congestion but a boost to economic prosperity of the kind that be mention by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and — this be important — for the guidance for LTP 5 to come soon . I also ask the Minister to give clarity on funding . of course we need funding and plenty of it — and obviously the Minister receive many demand for that — but as part of the settlement , it would be good to understand the status of the propose reallocation of HS2 money , which be suggest by the last government to be £ 209 million over the come seven year . additionally , we await the announcement on road investment strategy 3 , which will cover the Government ' s plan for the strategic road network until 2030 . I understand that it have be delay to align with the spending review , but can the Minister tell I when RIS3 will be publish , and whether a Stourport relief road could be consider as part of those plan — and will she come and open the new relief road ? it would be great to see she there , and I mean not just to cut a ribbon but to drive a Morgan sport car up the new road . we be extremely proud of the fact that some Morgan car be build just down the road in Malvern , and it would be a fantastic opportunity for she to demonstrate what this Government be do to support my constituent in Worcestershire . the new Government be make a very big deal of economic growth , which be incredibly important — I think we would all agree that economic growth be a driver of good for our society — and that be one of the reason they be keen to build new home . we can argue across the Chamber on detail of how to achieve growth , but the one thing on which we will surely agree be that growth be generate by investment in infrastructure . if we be to build these new , economically productive new home , we must serve their householder with easy way to get to work , to school , to medical service when they be need , and to the town centre to relax and shop and enjoy their community . the Stourport relief road be one such infrastructure development , which will not just support the town of stourport - on - Severn and my constituency , but deliver economic growth to the wide rural west midland . I very much look forward to hear what the Minister have to say about my proposal . I congratulate the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) on secure the debate , and on speak so passionately about the transport need in the historic and grow town of stourport - on - severn and across the wide region . I be grateful for the opportunity to discuss transport in Worcestershire , and I can assure the hon . member that this Government understand the great importance of transport to the people , community and business that power local economy across the country . in that context , although stourport - on - Severn remain the focus of today ' s debate , it would be remiss of I not to take the opportunity to highlight how the quality of journey and transport across the county of Worcestershire be be improve . England ' s road be vital to our transport system — car remain the most popular form of transport by a long way — and this Government be commit to maintain and renew our road network to ensure that it serve driver , cyclist and other road user , remain safe and tackle congestion . that be why we be commit to a long - term programme of investment to improve road link throughout the region . the hon . Gentleman make reference to road investment strategy 3 , which set out the improvement to the strategic road network that be due to commence . we have an interim settlement for 2025 - 26 , but the new road investment strategy will begin in April 2026 . there have already be significant road investment throughout Worcestershire , include a £ 43 million project to upgrade and improve capacity on the A38 in Bromsgrove . that scheme be under construction and will help to tackle congestion and improve local journey , as well as directly support growth through 1 , 100 new job and 5 , 500 new home . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to say that transport infrastructure can unlock opportunity and provide the opportunity for people to have new home that be serve in a sustainable way . the A4440 Worcester southern link road open in 2022 . it be one of Worcestershire ' s busy road and receive investment of £ 54 . 5 million from the large local major programme for upgrade , include the dualling of the entire length of the road from the A5 to the Powick roundabout , the new Carrington bridge , and a number of walk and cycling improvement to improve access to the city of Worcester . the A4440 have reduce journey time , help to keep unnecessary traffic out of the city centre , and help to drive economic growth in the region by improve access to and from the m5 , as well as to the newly open Worcester Parkway station . there be other example , such as the Pershore northern link road , although I appreciate that it be some way from Stourport . the region have also gain from investment and improvement to the strategic road network . Junctions 5 , 6 and 7 of the m5 have benefit from improvement to road surface , road marking , signage and lighting , while a £ 15 million , 4 . 5 - mile safety upgrade between junction 6 and 7 have be complete , which impact positively on journey time . I be sure the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent benefit from that when they travel far afield . as hon . member will be aware , pothole be an all - too - visible reminder of the last government ' s failure to invest in our local road network . this Government be commit to ensure that investment be provide , so that our road facilitate the growth and development that the nation need . that be why local area , include Worcestershire , will benefit from the £ 500 million increase in road maintenance budget for 2025 - 26 . that mark a 50 % increase in funding , with almost £ 1 . 6 billion allocate to maintain and renew England ' s road . the total allocation from the autumn Budget for maintain and improve the network in Worcestershire be £ 29 . 5 million for the come financial year . hopefully , the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent in Wyre Forest will see the benefit . of course , this be not just about road ; it be about railway as well . England ' s railway should be a source of pride , because we be the country that create the railway . they be an iconic part of our heritage , and for more than two century , they have play an essential role in enable people to see our country , spend time with love one and seize economic opportunity , although I appreciate that stourport be build on the canal , rather than the railway . the new Worcestershire Parkway station , in the heart of the county , open in 2020 and have significantly improve connectivity and journey time to major centre , successfully open up Worcestershire to the whole country . it be a major success story for the region , with usage far exceed forecast , and more than 10 , 000 home be plan for the area . the station be a really good example of how well - plan , integrate travel can drive regional growth , help to deliver the home that Britain so desperately need , and provide sustainable transport . kidderminster railway station in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency benefit from a total of £ 4 . 3 million of growth deal funding . that work be complete in 2020 and have improve interchange facility , provide well transport link to Kidderminster and the surround area . of course , tackle some of the issue that the hon . Gentleman raise , such as congestion , be not just about build more infrastructure ; it be also about change the way that people travel . bus remain the most used form of public transport across the country , but vital service have be slash , and there be little accountability to passenger . some 300 million few mile be drive by bus in England in 2024 than in 2010 . the transformative work that this Government be do will turn the tide by give community the opportunity to control local bus service and have a real say in build local bus network that work for they . follow the Budget , we have allocate funding of £ 9 . 3 million for Worcestershire in the come year to support and improve local bus service . I should mention , alongside the investment make for driver and public transport user , that this Government be deeply committed to improve the experience of people who choose to walk or cycle . we have local cycling and walk infrastructure plan that allow local authority to take a long - term approach to develop their network . Worcestershire county council be develop eight of these plan — for Evesham , Redditch , Wyre Forest , Droitwich Spa , Malvern , Pershore , Bromsgrove and Worcester . all those will help to reduce journey by other form of transport , improve health and wellbeing , reduce congestion and improve air quality across the county . I turn to the issue of a relief road in Stourport . the town of stourport - on - Severn have play an important part in the nation ' s industrial and cultural history , go back to 1768 . I think it be the canal that really get it go . I acknowledge and fully understand the difficult challenge that congestion and uncertain journey time on key route may cause to business and commuter in a grow and popular town such as Stourport , particularly perhaps in the summer month , as I know it be a place that people like to visit and a tourist destination . I also understand the potential impact on growth , investment and employment in the area . the Department for Transport continue to work with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and other partner to deliver a well - design , integrated and affordable transport network that play a vital role in unlock home and deliver wide benefit , include reduced congestion and carbon emission , and improve air quality . there be also the important benefit of ensure that community can access vital job and service . for almost everyone , the road network play a vital role in our daily life , but as the Chancellor have clearly set out , this Government inherit an extremely challenging financial situation ; the previous Administration leave a £ 22 billion public spending gap in this year alone . the gap between the desire for scheme and the money available to deliver they have become abundantly clear . the hon . Gentleman talk about a number of potential development in his area . within this challenging context , as I be sure he know , it be for Worcestershire county council to decide which local road scheme , or indeed other transport scheme , should be propose and progress as part of its strategic transport plan , and what should be prioritise in Worcestershire ' s local travel plan . the relief road be consider some time ago — I understand it be almost two decade ago — and obviously it have not feature in more recent local travel plan . I know that he be already engage with the county council on its future priority . if the local authority need further guidance in develop its transport plan , I be sure that my official will be more than happy to provide that additional help and support . the hon . Gentleman mention the third road investment strategy , and I have already touch on the timeframe . obviously , the total funding available for the road investment strategy over the five year of RIS3 will be establish in the spending review . he can correct I if I be wrong , but I do not believe that the suggest Stourport relief road would form part of the strategic road network , so it would not be deal with in RIS3 . such development would be bring forward by the county council . in the past , the county council have benefit from the major road network . if it develop plan , I be sure we could consider they when future funding become available for such programme . however , it be for the county council to start develop those plan ; I be sure my official would be happy to offer advice and assistance . this would enable the hon . Gentleman and his constituent to put forward a convincing case when future programme of funding become available . I conclude by thank the hon . Gentleman again for secure this debate . as I know he appreciate , transport play a central role in life and livelihood across the country , include in his constituency and the town of stourport - on - Severn . he have rightly highlight his concern about the pressure in Wyre Forest , and in Stourport in particular . I reassure he and the House that the Government be provide record level of investment for road , rail , bus and active travel project across the country , include in Worcestershire . I assure he that this Government have hear the case clearly , and will continue to take action to address the issue debate today . I look forward to hear more from Worcestershire county council — or its successor body , as I understand it have express an interest in local government reorganisation — in the month and year ahead . question put and agree to . House adjourn .