business before question King ' s Speech ( answer to Address ) the Vice - Chamberlain of the household report to the House , that his Majesty , have be attend with its Address of 7th November , be pleased to receive the same very graciously and give the follow answer : I have receive with great satisfaction the dutiful and loyal expression of your thank for the speech with which I open the present Session of Parliament . Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — Bus Services : England what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of bus service level in England . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of local bus service . what step he be take to improve bus service in Leeds . the Government continue to provide unprecedented investment into bus . since the pandemic , we have announce more than £ 4 . 5 billion of support for bus service in England outside London , include £ 1 billion recently reallocate from HS2 to improve service in the north and the midland through Network North . bus passenger journey in England increase by 19 % to 3 . 4 billion in the year end March 2023 , and we be see patronage increase in some area . it have be three year since the Government publish their national bus strategy , but we be still wait for the promise guidance on what constitute " socially and economically necessary " bus service for which local authority can provide subsidy . while we wait , people in Stapleton , in my constituency , be have to walk a mile to get to a bus stop to catch a bus to the city centre , because First Bus say it be not commercially profitable to run a service through Stapleton and there be no money to subsidise it . last July , a Minister tell I that guidance would be issue in this Parliament , which be clearly close to come to an end . when will we see that guidance ? we particularly want to try to assist the hon . Lady and her local authority with the finance . the West of England combine authority receive £ 1 . 1 million every year through the bus service operator grant to subsidise socially necessary bus service . it have also be allocate in excess of £ 1 . 2 billion in city region sustainable transport settlement 1 and 2 to deliver transport infrastructure , which include the bus infrastructure the hon . Lady require . as a regular bus user myself , I recognise it when people in rural Devon tell I that some bus fail to appear , mean they miss connection with train as a result . the service be well use by college student . unreliable bus service not only affect the productivity of the college student , but of their parent who be then call upon to help the student make the journey to college , curtail their work day . what can the Government do to encourage well co - ordination between rail and bus to get student to college on time ? that depend on funding , as the hon . Gentleman will be aware because I raise it with he in his Adjournment debate on 19 December . Devon County Council have be award £ 17 . 4 million to deliver its bus service improvement plan , but there should be well integration between the provider , the local authority and the rail company . our bus service in Leeds have be unreliable for year , and yet the Leeds City Council Conservative group want more of the same and hope the problem would just go away . will the Minister join I in congratulate Labour ' s West Yorkshire Mayor , Tracy Brabin , on take the significant decision to bring our bus back into public control , so they can once again be run for people and not for profit ? I have the dubious honour of be praise as the hon . Gentleman ' s favourite MP early this week — damn by faint praise . I would gently push back that the West Yorkshire Mayor be able to do that only because this government have provide unprecedented funding of in excess of £ 2 . 1 billion in the devolve settlement under the city region sustainable transport settlement . Southend welcome the £ 1 million of bus service improvement plan funding that have already enable conservative cabinet member Kevin Buck to reinstate the much - love 25a route , but we need more . will the Minister commit to come to my high - level bus summit on Monday , to listen to resident and see what more we can do ? in the time - honour tradition , I can only say yes to my hon . friend . she be a doughty champion for Southend . I would be delighted to attend her bus summit , to speak to the relevant councillor and to explain how the bus service improvement plan and the bus service operator ' grant funding be transform local bus provision . never mess with busy mum and dad , not least because I be one and I know that the Minister be as well . parent in Arlingham , Frampton , Elmore and Longney be really struggle with rural school bus transport . this be not all about money ; it be about reliability , safety and fairness . indeed , they feel that their child be discriminate against versus what child in town and city receive . Gloucestershire County Council be do a lot . it be stretch itself , but we be really struggle to find solution . will the Minister meet I and Councillor Stephen Davies to see whether we can find solution for our parent in the community ? I would be delighted to do so . I welcome the fact that my hon . friend be stand up for her local community in this way . clearly , it be a question of integrate the particular service , whether they be local or school provision , but it be definitely something that we can sort . it be good to meet my hon . friend the Minister and the resident of Fishburn in the Sedgefield constituency recently ; and he then follow up with Arriva . will he endorse my campaign to reconnect Fishburn , Trimdon and Sedgefield back with Newton Aycliffe and Darlington , which be cut off by the removal of the X21 ? do he also agree that rural service to place such as these be the critical platform to enable opportunity to be spread and a key reason for the BSIP funding ? it be a pleasure to attend the meeting at Fishburn Community Hall , meet the local resident and councillor , be offer a pancake on Shrove Tuesday and discuss bus service and bus funding . I have to say that there be no doubt whatever that the improvement of the X21 , in particular take resident and worker into Newton Aycliffe and Darlington , seem to be utterly sensible , and I will continue to support my hon . friend ' s campaign and meet again with Arriva to ensure that it happen for the people of Fishburn and Trimdon . I call the shadow Minister . good morning , Mr Speaker . passenger watchdog Transport Focus publish a report last week , which find huge regional variation in bus passenger satisfaction across the country , with large number of passenger " be let down " . under the Tories ' deregulation of the bus sector , passenger satisfaction with some of our operator be mile below the average of 80 % , with some as low as a dismal 66 % . in place such as West Yorkshire , Labour Mayors be not stand for it any long . as my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) say , Tracy Brabin have announce her intention to pursue franchising to reverse decade of Tory decline . but the vast majority of local authority do not have those power , so will the Minister adopt Labour ' s plan to give every local transport authority the same power to take back control of their bus service ? unlike the hon . Gentleman , I be at the launch of the say report and have read it . he will be aware that , for example , one reason for the complication be that the number of people work from home have increase by 40 % . we have a plan to tackle that with the record investment that be be make to Mayors . [ Official Report , 25 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 13mc . ] ( correction ) he talk about franchising , but it be also the case , without a shadow of a doubt , that he do not have a plan to finance it , particularly for rural local authority . what be the case be that , when labour organisation be challenge on this , they struggle to find out how they will deal with the funding . the truth be that there be no plan and they be not put forward any funding . individual people who attend that event be genuinely in shock at the shadow Secretary of State ' s suggestion that Labour be go to do this , but be unsure about how it would fund it . Seafarer Welfare : p & o Ferries what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of seafarer welfare standard on P & O Ferries ' fleet . I wish to make it clear that the dismissal two year ago by P & O ferry of nearly 800 seafarer without notice and without consultation be completely unacceptable , which be why this Government introduce a comprehensive package of measure to improve the welfare of seafarer and to stop the abuse . on the specific of the question , the Maritime and Coastguard Agency periodically inspect vessel that enter UK port to assess their compliance with international standard , include those in the Maritime Labour Convention . we expect all operator to meet if not exceed those standard , and the UK continue to play a lead role internationally in drive up working condition across the maritime sector . we be pleased that , just this weekend , P & O Ferries have commit to sign the Seafarers ' charter along with four other operator . we will work with P & O ferry to support it in its application for chartered status and assess its welfare standard against the charter ' s requirement . two year on from P & O Ferries ' shocking attack on seafarer job , trade union right and employment law , the legal loophole that it use to escape criminal sanction have still not be close . the P & O seafarer be UK - base worker , but because P & O Ferries have flag its ship out to Cyprus , Bermuda and the Bahamas , P & O and , crucially , the Government know that criminal sanction , include fine for the offence that it commit , would not apply . why have the Government not close that loophole ? as I say , the Government have introduce a comprehensive package of measure to stop the abuse of seafarer . in particular , we have introduce the Seafarers ' Wages Act 2023 , which will come into force this summer and ensure the minimum wage for seafarer in the UK . we have the minimum wage corridor that be open up this summer with France , ensure the minimum wage across the channel , and we have the seafarer ’ charter , which raise standard far higher . as I say , P & O and four other operator have apply to join it . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last Sunday mark the two - year anniversary of P & O Ferries illegally sack 786 worker , but two year on nothing have change . this week an investigation by ITV and the Guardian reveal that P & O Ferries be not only pay many of its worker less than half the minimum wage but force staff to work 12 - hour shift seven day a week for up to 17 week at a time . France ' s maritime Minister have call that " dangerous " and " not moral " , and have change the law to stop it happen . the Seafarers ' Wages Act will not curb that treatment , nor will the Government ' s voluntary charter , so when will the Government act to prevent those exploitative practice from happen in our water ? the Government agree that seafarer should obviously not be work so hard that they be fatigue , that it be dangerous , and that operator have a duty to ensure that that be not the case . the Seafarers ' Wages Act be obviously primarily focused on wage , and will ensure that seafarer get pay the minimum wage within UK water . one provision of the seafarer ' charter will ensure that the operator have roster so that seafarer be not fatigued and overwork . the Department will monitor compliance and work with the operator to ensure that seafarer be not fatigued . I call the SNP spokesperson . far to the point make by the Labour Front Bencher , it be just over two year since nearly 800 p & O worker be summarily sack and throw off ferry . we will finally debate the Government ' s utterly supine and ineffective fire - and - rehire code of practice next week , but it be just over two month since the Government claim that they be make substantial progress on implement the nine - point plan for seafarer protection . the Seafarers ' Wages Act still have not come into force , alongside a toothless and voluntary seafarer ' charter , which will not change how P & O operate , even if it sign up to it . we all know that in this House , so be it not time that the Government take meaningful action and get behind our seafarer ? the Seafarers ' Wages Act will come into force this summer . unfortunately , it take time to pass legislation , and we have to consult on it . no one want it to come into force quick than I . the claim that the seafarer ’ charter will have no impact be completely untrue . the operator will have to abide by the term of the charter , which will ensure that seafarer earn the minimum wage throughout their engagement , that they get overtime payment of at least 1 . 25 time the hourly rate , and that they have roster that ensure that they be not fatigued and safety be not compromise . the Government will monitor the compliance of the operator with that charter . local Transport : west midland what step he be take to help local authority improve local transport in the west midland . in total , local transport authority across the west midland have be allocate around £ 5 billion to improve local transport service and infrastructure through the city region sustainable transport settlement , bus service improvement plan funding , and our recently announce local transport fund . one thing that would of course hugely help local transport in the west midland be for voter in the combine authority to re - elect our fantastic Mayor , Andy Street . hear , hear ! the extension of the Birmingham to Lichfield line go all the way to Burton and pass the National Memorial Arboretum . at the moment , the line be use only for freight , and I be tell four year ago that the cost of upgrade it for passenger traffic would be only about £ 10 million , which be nothing in the great scheme of thing . when will we see the line be complete so that people can go to the National Memorial Arboretum , which have half a million visitor a year , by rail instead of always have to use road ? I know that my hon . friend be a long - stand champion of that scheme and take every opportunity to raise it with we . it be for local authority to promote scheme for transport in their area . I be pleased to tell he that , follow our decision to cancel the second phase of High Speed 2 , we have be able to make significant fund available , so Staffordshire County Council — his local authority — will get just under £ 260 million from the local transport fund . I urge he to talk to the council to see if it can fund the very modest bid that he have just set out for that scheme . the tram system in the west midland be not go accord to plan unfortunately , and the rail line between Moor Street , Snowhill and Marylebone — the chiltern line , as it be know — be underperform and have become highly unreliable . the air quality in our area , include in Warwick and Leamington , Snowhill and elsewhere , be very poor because the service be diesel - run . other country , such as India , have electrify their main network . will the Minister electrify the chiltern route use the budget free up from HS2 ? there be significant plan to electrify across the network . another thing we can do to spend money more cost - effectively be consider where battery train can be use in order not to electrify the very expensive part of the network . I be also aware that Chiltern be look at modernise its rolling stock , particularly to improve air quality . all the thing that the hon . Gentleman raise be absolutely in progress . the Rail Minister will be able to say more about they in due course . New Direct Ferry link to Mainland Europe if he will make an assessment of the potential merit of create new direct ferry link to mainland Europe . the UK ferry sector be a highly competitive commercial market . there be currently a significant number of link to Europe offer a variety of freight and passenger route from many location , include five new route since 2021 . ferry route be develop on a commercial basis by private sector operator to provide service that meet wide passenger or freight demand . as such , the Department do not currently intend to undertake any such assessment . the reinstatement of a direct ferry link from the Forth estuary into Europe address three key objective : an environmental objective of reduce road congestion and carbon emission from heavy good vehicle ; improve import - export resilience ; and deliver economic opportunity to Scotland . industry agree and ferry operator stand ready to deliver a route , but the Scottish Government lack the courage to support Project Brave . what can be do to encourage the Scottish Government to invest a modest amount of pump - prime funding to realise the economic and environmental benefit that would be feel by all across the UK ? as I say in my initial answer , the UK Government see the ferry sector as a commercial market and do not subsidise it . as the hon . Gentleman point out , however , this be a devolved matter — in Scotland , ferry be the responsibility of the Scottish Government — so he should make his protestation about that route to the SNP Government , because it be up to they to decide what to do . I totally understand that they be slightly worried ; they have an undistinguished track record on ferry , with various fiasco — maybe it be because they try to get ferry that can hold motorhome . Rail Reform delay : cost what estimate he have make of the cost to the public purse of delay to plan rail reform . what estimate he have make of the cost to the public purse of delay to plan rail reform . the recent National Audit Office report be clear that we expect to spend £ 400 million on rail reform up to the end of March 2024 , compare with initial plan to spend £ 1 . 2 billion . the report be also clear that we be forecast £ 2 billion of total saving over the current spending review period , which be 77 % of our original saving target . it have be three year since we be tell that great British Railways would happen . in my reading of the NAO report , it say that the £ 1 . 5 billion of saving will not be meet in time . the National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers say that another half billion could be achieve if we remove the profit motive from the railway , where a huge amount be waste on shareholder . when will the Government progress on GBR and when will we get a date for its implementation ? be it not time for they to bite the bullet and renationalise our railway , as we have do successfully with several line ? at the heart of rail reform be integrate track and train . I be very pleased that the Transport Committee have take on the role of be the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee for the draft Rail Reform Bill , and be now scrutinise that legislation . the cut - off date for evidence be next Wednesday , if the hon . Gentleman would like to put his suggestion forward . I hope that the Committee will complete its report by July ; the Government will have two month to respond to the recommendation , and if we have cross - party support for an integrate rail body that bring track and train together , I hope we will be able to bring in legislation to that effect , and improve rail service for everyone . high Speed 2 , with its out - of - control cost , be compound local misery , because it be now set to close the vital artery of Old Oak Common Lane for four to five year . we only know that because it leak out , which show the Government ' s disregard for community and transparency . what assurance can the Minister give about funding for the Euston leg , so that the world - class interchange that we be promise do not end up be the terminus , and so that my long - suffer resident do not pay the price of Government project mismanagement by be hem in until 2030 because they can not get on their one access road to the outside ? an Old Oak Common terminus provide a great opportunity for regeneration in the area . I have visit a number of time , and I be committed to work with the community to minimise impact . one of the way that be be do be by ensure that the spoil be remove by conveyor , rather than by lorry . we do seek to minimise the impact ; we recognise that when new rail station be build , there be an impact . turn to the hon . Lady ' s concern about Euston , I have meet our property developer partner Lendlease . our aim be to deliver not just a station , but the large public sector land deal in London , which will completely regenerate the area . it will deliver office , job and home , and will also provide the funding to deliver the station , not just for HS2 but for Network Rail . we be committed to ensure that Network North deliver that station . I call the shadow Minister . early this month , the National Audit Office issue a damn report that make it clear that this Government ' s refusal to bring forward long - delay rail reform be cost taxpayer dearly . Avanti West Coast make the amount of waste in our rail system crystal clear when it brag about get " free money " from Government , despite the truly shocking service that it deliver , so it should come as no surprise that yesterday , northern Mayors and council leader unanimously call for Avanti to lose its contract due to its appalling service . the question for the Minister today be simple : will he strip Avanti of its contract — yes or no ? no , we will not . the reason be that there be issue with the west coast main line that will remain , regardless of who the operator be . it be essential to get underneath the bonnet , look at the issue and fix they , rather than look just at what be on the side of the car . to take just one four - week period from Christmas , 65 % of the delay in that period be down not to the operator but Network Rail , and they involve weather - relate issue as well as trespass and , sadly , suicide , which we need to minimise . we also have issue with restrictive contract , and I would like change there . for example , Avanti be unique as an operator , in the sense that its driver will not double - trip . they will do one return journey , but will not go over the same leg of rail twice . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) ask whose fault that be . that contract be agree in 1997 , so maybe we know whose fault it be . that sum up this ludicrous situation : we be talk about a contract from 1997 that be due to end in five year , in 2002 , yet that contract between the union and any operator remain . until we can make progress on restrictive contract , we will not be able to make change . a government can not break the contract — it be between the operator and the union . I welcome the step that Mick Lynch — Order . I do not mind have an Adjournment debate or statement on this subject if we need one — I be more than happy to allow one — but we can not have it now ; I have a bit to get through . but the Minister ' s answer be excellent , I be sure . I call the SNP spokesman . I start by thank Alex Hynes for have do a fantastic job run Scotland ' s Railway for seven year . he be depart to become the director general of rail at the Department for Transport , where he will help steer rail reform . and what a job he have ! as we have hear , the National Audit Office say that rail reform be not on track . not only be there £ 1 . 5 billion a year in lose saving , but the Department have fail to make planned saving of £ 4 . 1 billion from workforce reform and the establishment of great British Railways . cut of £ 4 . 1 billion to the transport budget be nevertheless announce by the Chancellor two week ago . do the Minister agree that his Government be unable to make saving , but all too willing to make cut ? no , I do not . I be delighted at the appointment of Alex Hynes , who will become a director general in the Department for Transport . he will put track and train together in the Department , and that departmental section will move out to great British Railways once the legislation be put in place , so I do not agree at all . the appointment demonstrate that we be get on with rail reform by appoint the right staff , and we have start on the legislative path . Mr Speaker , I know I take too long at the Dispatch Box when I talk about the need to fix such contract , but they be complicated . this session should not be about cheap soundbite ; it do not work like that . it should be about get into the detail . there be sticky contract provision that the court will not allow a Government or an operator to break unilaterally . I do wish this House would be a bit more intellectual in its approach to scrutiny . active travel : Newcastle upon Tyne what step he be take to support active travel in Newcastle upon Tyne . this Government be invest more than any other in active travel . around £ 15 million have be provide to Newcastle upon Tyne since 2020 - 21 to deliver high - quality infrastructure . that be support by over £ 2 million of funding to Transport North East to improve capability across the region . Active Travel England support local authority in deliver maximum value for money by ensure that scheme comply with the relevant guidance , and council receive tailor support from the Government . walk and cycling prevent 1 , 500 serious long - term health condition on Tyneside every year , accord to the walking and cycling index , and they bring in £ 400 million in economic benefit , so it be no wonder that half of Tynesiders want to walk or wheel more , and that two fifth want to cycle more , but if they be to do that , the street need to be make safe . what be the Minister do , apart from undermine low traffic neighbourhood , to make our street safe for walk , wheel and cycling ? with great respect to the hon . Lady , she know full well that her council attempt to have an active travel scheme in Jesmond , and it so mess it up that it have to scrap the scheme . the LTN be scrap , and there be 23 , 000 objection and a considerable waste of money . with due respect , active travel be do a great job , and we support it , but council have to take local community with they . [ Official Report , 25 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 14mc . ] ( Correction ) Rail Services what step he be take to improve rail service . official and I be focus on improve rail service in the short and long term . this week , I bring together representative from across the rail industry for a leader in rail session to discuss how , collectively , we can make change to deliver a well passenger experience . long term , we remain committed to bring track and train back together under great British Railways , and to continue to build on the £ 100 billion of investment since 2010 . Carshalton and Wallington be one of the poor part of London for connectivity . it be promise that the ultra low emission zone would bring additional public transport investment , but instead the 455 bus have be scrap , the Go Sutton bus have be scrap , the 410 bus service be be reduce , and the Superloop be just an exist bus route that have be rebrande . one thing that would improve connectivity be deliver on the Croydon area remodelle scheme that National Rail and Network Rail be work on to improve connectivity in London and the south - east . what discussion be the Department have with Network Rail about move this project forward ? I thank my hon . friend , who be an absolute champion of that project , and he make his point clear . upgrade make in the Gatwick area be already deliver significant improvement to the Brighton main line , and the industry continually review how good to respond to change in demand . I understand that my hon . friend have be in discussion with the operator on the option for increase capacity on busy weekend service between Carshalton and London Victoria , and that Govia Thameslink Railway will shortly respond to he directly . I will continue to work with he on the enhancement project that he champion . the leader of Nottinghamshire County Council , who have a nice side hustle as the hon . member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) , once say : " the full delivery of HS2 ' s Eastern Leg be what the East Midlands need to support and create highly skilled job , link community to opportunity and decarbonise our transport network . " as he fail to persuade the Prime Minister , who cancel that vital investment in our region ' s rail service , can the Minister tell I how we will now deliver the transformative change to our connectivity , sustainability , job creation , productivity and social mobility that HS2 promise ? fill a few pothole will not cut it . I certainly look forward to the day when my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) be also an excellent East Midlands Mayor , and we be devolve more power to the east midland to help he with that task . the hon . member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) reference hs2 money , from which more than a £ 1 billion will be allocate to the Mayor of the East Midlands to spend on the transport project that he and , indeed , the hon . Lady may want . that allow we to devolve more project to the local area , and we have be absolutely clear that all the money that have be save as a result of the hs2 cancellation will be reinveste primarily in the north and the midland . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the recent Budget contain welcome additional funding for east - west rail . what be the Minister ' s intention for that additional funding ? may I suggest that he work with the Bletchley town fund board , of which I be a member , on use the money to provide an additional eastern entrance to Bletchley station , which will improve accessibility and enhance regeneration ? I be happy to work with the Chair of the Select Committee , and I thank he for the evidence session we have on east - west rail . it be also brilliant to go to the Winslow and Calvert area to see that final link put in place . the first phase of east - west rail be ready for open next year . winslow station be look absolutely superb , and I be so excited to see rail service come back there . on the second phase from Bletchley to Bedford , as he rightly say , money have be allocate from the last Budget to deliver that . I be certainly happy to meet he and the Bletchley team to see what more they can do to enhance the station for both the first and second phase . Wandsworth Town and Battersea Park station in my constituency will soon be make fully accessible , thank to the Access for all funding . Queenstown Road have be nominate for the next round of funding , but a decision have still not be make . can the Minister tell the House when the Department plan to announce which station have be successful in control period 7 ? will they include Queenstown Road in my Battersea constituency ? I be delighted by the progress that the hon . Lady mention , and she be right about that third station . I will meet official , so that I can write to she with the detail . I be keen to work with her local authority to see how we can use regeneration money to achieve that end . as for build on the 240 Access for all step - free access station that we have , we will make decision shortly . we have be through 300 brilliant application , and we be shortlist they for delivery . I will happily write to she to ensure that she have the detail about her project . long before I be elect , it have be identify that in the east direction , the Leeds to Selby railway line have only a footbridge , which restrict access for so many people . will my hon . friend join I in welcome the construction take place on the Access for all bridge in Garforth ? it show that conservative mp work with conservative government improve rail service for all constituent . my right hon . friend be spot on , as always . I thank he for his work , because ultimately that project would not have get off the ground without the campaigning and partnership that he provide . it just show that a superb MP work in the community , and the Access for all station fund , which have deliver 240 project and will deliver more , be a win partnership . passenger in my constituency of Edinburgh West face consistently overcrowded train from ScotRail , which be take into public ownership by the Scottish Government in 2022 ; an unreliable service from Avanti ; and now a staggering pilot from London North Eastern Railway , in which east coast main line price from Waverley to King ' s Cross will increase by 123 % in some case . do the Minister agree that that be not provide a good service to the people of Edinburgh , or those anywhere else on that line ? it be the wrong move when we be try to encourage more people on to the railway . the trial with LNER try to give passenger great flexibility . they can now get on a train 70 minute either side of the one that they book , rather than just the one fix train . only 11 % of fare be impact in that trial , and 55 % be well value than before . work with our partner at LNER , we be try to flatten out demand , rather than have crowd train follow by quieter train . we hope to change the number of passenger on train , which would make for a well service overall . I will happily write to the hon . Lady , because I believe that the trial have great merit . we sometimes have to be bold and try fare and ticket reform . if we do not , we will never change the system that many criticise for be too complex . thank to the support and determination of West Midlands Mayor Andy Street , we will see a train station and the return of passenger train service to Aldridge for the first time in 65 year , which be something many people think would never happen . the service will start at Walsall , but now that we have the west midland rail hub , will my hon . friend agree to continue to work with I and other to secure a service to London ? yes indeed . thank to our great West Midlands Mayor Andy Street , we now have the midland rail hub , which will well connect more than 50 station across the midland . my right hon . friend have champion Aldridge station for many year , and it be now be deliver . as she say , the service to Walsall will open , and it will have a car park as well as a platform service . I be committed to work with she to extend that reach even far . I congratulate she on deliver that station . I call the shadow Secretary of State , Louise Haigh . the Minister will have see report this week that 3 , 000 job be at risk at Alstom rail factory in Derby . the Government tell we that they be do everything in their power to prevent those job loss , but they appear to be fail . it get bad : this morning , I receive correspondence from Hitachi Rail , warn that despite year of representation to Ministers , no solution have be find that will keep its order book full and safeguard the future of 700 staff at its factory in Newton Aycliffe . the Secretary of State have it in his power to vary contract and commission the necessary order . when will he do that and protect those job ? the Secretary of State have lead for the Department on the response to Hitachi and Alstom , and their understandable concern about order . as I have say , we have a challenge , in that while fleet can last from 35 to 40 year , the average age of our fleet be under 17 year . we have modernise 8 , 000 out of our 15 , 500 carriage , and as a result there be a lag with the order book . we be do everything we can to work with all four train manufacturer to bring more tender through . those will be for the TransPennine Express , Northern , Southeastern and , as the Secretary of State mention , Chiltern Railways . the work to find a resolution be do in partnership between train manufacturer , the Secretary of State and the Department , and we hope to find that resolution . North Cotswold Line : dualle whether he have make a recent assessment of the potential merit of dualle the North Cotswold Line between Oxford and Worcester . I recognise my right hon . friend ' s long - stand campaign on this scheme ; she have work alongside stakeholder include the North Cotswold Line Task Force . we continue to work with local stakeholder on their aspiration for enhancement to the line . I thank the team of Ministers for the £ 209 million that have be allocate to Worcestershire County Council from HS2 money , to help with local transport improvement . will the Minister endorse a project in which we work with Oxfordshire County Council to find way to redouble section of the Oxford to Worcester line ? that will result in fast , more frequent and more reliable service on the beautiful north Cotswold line . as my right hon . friend mention , additional funding through Network North will help . Network Rail have be work with the taskforce and its consultant on timetable capacity and analysis , to see whether there be a smart way to deliver additional service , with few infrastructure intervention . we expect that work to complete next month . I would be delighted if my right hon . friend would join I and leader of Worcestershire and Oxfordshire County Councils , and her neighbour MP , to discuss this matter in the come week . Transport Connectivity : North of England Cities what step he be take to improve transport connectivity in city in the north of England . Network North announce £ 19 . 8 billion of investment in the north of England , include £ 2 . 5 billion for the local transport fund , and be increase the city region sustainable transport settlement to £ 12 . 4 billion from 2027 . my hon . friend ' s local authority , Lancashire County Council , will receive nearly £ 500 million from the local transport fund , an additional £ 7 million for the bus service improvement plan , and an uplift of £ 244 . 5 million for road resurfacing . to truly build our northern powerhouse and contribute to economic growth , direct connection between city such as Liverpool and Preston be really important . do the Secretary of State agree that take out the buffer at Ormskirk , which be put in for purely administrative reason in the 1960 and prevent direct train , be a great idea and that such service would be far enable by battery technology ? do he agree that that would enhance the case for stop the nonsense at Midge Hall station , which be close by beeche in the ' 60 , where passenger train stop but passenger can only peer out at the platform because they can not get on or off ? it ' s true . I be sure that my hon . friend be glad to have your endorsement for her question , Mr Speaker . the Government believe that local authority be well place to promote and take forward those scheme and , as I say , the local transport fund in the north will mean that £ 2 . 5 billion will be available for they . I encourage she to work with stakeholder such as Lancashire County Council . I have the pleasure of discuss a number of those local scheme when I recently meet its leadership on a visit to Preston . when I have be contact by constituent excite by the news of the local transport fund , I have ask my local council officer when we can begin some of these project , but they have be tell by Department for Transport civil servant that the bulk of the money will not come until the end of the decade . when will we have some timeline for the delivery of that money ? I do not want my constituent to have their expectation raise unreasonably . I be pleased that the hon . Gentleman ' s local authority will get £ 168 million . we have be clear that that money will come over a seven - year period , and we will shortly publish guidance for the local authority on how it can go about that . I hope he will be pleased to know that we will make it clear to local council that when they put their plan together , member of Parliament should be involve in develop scheme so that he and other hon . member can represent their constituent and their local transport priority . I call the shadow Minister . if the Secretary of State want to improve connectivity between our great northern city , he might want to start by repair the road . the backlog of local road repair have go up by 16 % this year alone to £ 16 . 3 billion . the Network North announcement be spread over 11 year , and its average annual contribution account for only a third of the £ 2 . 3 billion annual increase in the backlog . that be not all go to road anyway , and it will go nowhere near address the damage do since 2016 , when the Government slash the road repair budget in half . when will the Secretary of State apologise to road user for the damage that his Government have cause and admit that they have fail to repair the pothole ? what the hon . Gentleman say be interesting . we make a commitment to take the money from the cancellation of the second phase of High Speed 2 to make £ 8 . 3 billion available for local road maintenance — [ interruption . ] yes , it be over 11 year , but we make the first tranche of money available this financial year , and again next financial year . we will set out the allocation in due course . that money be available only because we make the decision to cancel the second phase of hs2 . labour can not give a straight answer on that question , and it have not commit to spend that £ 8 . 3 billion at all . driver know that they will only get that investment with a Conservative Government . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . we be get on with deliver the plan for driver , with new statutory guidance require local support for low - traffic neighbourhood and strengthen guidance support 20 mph limit where they make sense — not in blanket measure , as in Wales . if council do not listen , they could see their future funding affect . we be consult on remove the profit motive from council traffic enforcement while speed up traffic light across the country . as I just say , that follow our record funding increase for improve our road , with £ 8 . 3 billion of reallocate hs2 funding — something that Opposition member have refuse to support . there be nothing wrong with driving , and the plan for driver , which be dismiss as nonsense by the shadow Secretary of State , show that only the Government be on the side of driver . I thank the Minister for bus , the hon . member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , for share with I the list of action he manage to elicit from north - east bus operator follow my debate on real - time bus information . however , no date be give . this afternoon , our fantastic candidate for North East Mayor , Kim McGuinness , be launch her vision for transport in the north - east . can the Minister confirm that those action will be fulfil to enable she to deliver on her commitment to real - time bus information as soon as possible ? I be pleased to be able to tell the hon . Lady that within a week of her debate in Westminster Hall , my hon . friend the Minister for bus make sure that those meeting take place , so the action that be necessary be under way . I be sure that my hon . friend will be able to update she on the specific timeline in due course . the Rail Minister be well aware that Network Rail continue to let down disabled resident and visitor and family at Chalkwell station by repeatedly fail to install the much - need disabled lift . this be the seventh time I have raise this issue in this place . two year ago , I be promise that the lift would be instal this year . I have now be tell it will not even be start until next year . this be a disgrace . what can the Minister do to accelerate this project and address this poor performance ? there be a retendering at Chalkwell , and Network Rail find that the exist structure would not be suitable to deliver the project as it stand . the design work be go on right now and building will happen next year . my hon . friend be right that the delay be not acceptable . I will meet she at Chalkwell station and bring the Network Rail team along so that we can talk she through the project and its challenge and , if we can , show how we will speed it up . I call the shadow Minister . if the Secretary of State be not spout conspiracy theory , he be exude incompetence . ashford authority warn Parliament that 14 hour of queue be a " reasonable bad case " scenario with the implementation of the EU entry / exit system this autumn . why have he fail to adequately prepare for the queue at our port and airport ? I just do not recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation . we be work very hard with colleague across Government . I recently have a very good meeting with colleague at the port of Dover , and we meet with other operator . there be very good plan in place , work be proceed at pace , and I be confident that the EES will go very smoothly when introduce . the plan be in place and work be under way . I call Mark Eastwood — not here . I call Neale Hanvey . I do not have a topical question . I thank the Secretary of State and the Rail Minister for their support for my campaign to deliver a direct train service between Cleethorpes and King ' s Cross . will the Rail Minister give an update on when the service be likely to start ? I thank my hon . friend . he have be a champion not only for Cleethorpes ' direct rail service , but for the east coast main line timetable change that be announce in the Budget . we be now go through the stage with those who use the line to ensure we do not have any timetable issue like those that arise in May 2018 . I hope we will come to a position on this in some week and that I can give he more detail , but I very much hope to see those direct service to Cleethorpes . this timetable change be design to bring in great improvement such as the one he have champion . three year ago , level - up funding for the upgrade of the b714 in my constituency be announce . so far no fund have be forthcoming . if and when the funding be finally allocate , what support can the Secretary of State provide to help ensure that this funding be sufficient to fulfil the upgrade , give that the cost of labour and material be now much high than they be three year ago ? that be a matter for the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . I will take it up with the Department and make sure that it write to the hon . Lady . resident in Harrogate and Knaresborough often face train cancellation , sometimes at very short notice , cause much frustration and inconvenience . a shortage of driver and train crew be often the cause of the cancellation , and I have raise that with the train company involve . what step be my hon . friend take to ensure that vacancy be fill and operational training be prioritise ? that be a challenge . the shortage of crew be largely down to sickness , the level of which be about 8 . 5 % , which be too high . we be work with the operator to ensure that it be work on that , and with the northern rail partnership , to ensure there be more resilience on that line . the training backlog need to be clear , work in co - operation with the union rather than they go on strike . we should be able to ease that backlog and get a well service for my hon . friend and his constituent . last week , the Prime Minister fail to provide my constituent with any assurance about proposal for a train station in the Somerton and Langport area , but he do state that money be available to invest in local transport across the country . will my constituent see that money ? once again , when will the Langport Transport Group hear back regard its strategic business case , which it submit almost two year ago ? I will happily write to the hon . Lady and the Langport Transport Group so that they have a response , if they feel that that be outstanding . the Prime Minister have commit to ensure that the Network North money make available from the cancellation of High Speed 2 be spend where HS2 would have be deliver . that mostly include the north and the midland , but there will be other project in the rest of the country through the recycling of the funding from Euston . the Secretary of State be well aware of the A12 widen scheme , and the concern of my constituent about the route and design . they be try to engage with the Department and National Highways , but a one - person legal challenge be put the entire project at risk , despite the Government ' s financial investment . will the Secretary of State assure I that those community will be consult and engage with despite the legal challenge , so that we can make progress ? I assure my right hon . friend that National Highways work closely with local community when deliver major project , and it will continue to do so on the A12 widen scheme . my Department be commit to deliver the scheme , and grant consent for it on 12 January but , as she say , it be subject to an application for judicial review . I therefore can not add anything far , but I will continue to work with her local resident . if at any time she want to raise issue with the scheme with I , I will be delighted to meet she . I thank Ministers for facilitate discussion with the operator of the search and rescue helicopter service base in my constituency about the propose response time . they have be fairly productive so far , and we will see what the outcome be . it be apparent already that the decision be make solely on the basis of the number of call and not the nature of the work undertake . if the contract conform to that , can we ensure that future contract do not leave we expose in that way ? I know how important the helicopter search and rescue service be in Orkney and Shetland . the right hon . Gentleman have be a big campaigner for they , and have ask various question and secure various debate on the matter . a review be go on about the recent incident datum which will report in the summer , and we expect to publish it by the end of the year . that should include the answer to his question . we be invest more than £ 1 billion in the new search and rescue service . the number of basis will go from 10 to 12 overall , and there will be no closure of basis and no change to service in Orkney and Shetland before October 2026 . as my hon . friend will know , I have serious reservation about the propose low Thames crossing and its ability to tackle congestion at the exist Dartford crossing . many of the argument be rehearse as part of the development consent order process , which complete on 20 December . as I understand it , the Planning Inspectorate have three month from then to come up with a recommendation , which by my calculation be yesterday . can my hon . friend update the House on whether he have receive a recommendation from the Planning Inspectorate and what the process will be , so that I can ensure that the Department understand why many of my constituent and I do not believe that the propose crossing be the answer to the problem ? my hon . friend be right in his estimation of the date . a decision will be make in a matter of month , and certainly by the summer . I be very happy to sit down and have a discussion . I will be visit the site very shortly . People across Chesterfield be delighted when the long - stand campaign for the Staveley regeneration route be give the thumb up by the Government , but be then send into despair when Derbyshire County Council say it do not have the fund to provide its small contribution towards it . will the Secretary of State update we on whether it will be deliver ? what concern do he have about the fact that the poverty of local government sometimes get in the way of money that his Department have allocate ? I have look into this particular scheme and meet other colleague in the House about it . I will write to the hon . gentleman in detail . I be sure we can continue with the project . my constituent and business face an additional tax to cross the River Tamar to our main city and beyond . take over such key piece of infrastructure and fund they through tax measure which they already pay would create a level economic playing field and help level up my part of the country . will the Minister at least give a contribution towards the maintenance of these facility , so this tax do not go up again ? my hon . friend raise this issue with the Prime Minister only yesterday ; she be a fantastic campaigner on issue relate to the Tamar bridge . I accept entirely that the Tamar Bridge and Torpoint Ferry joint committee have recently look at the situation . an application be be consider by the Transport Secretary , and I be happy to meet she again to discuss it far . [ Official Report , 26 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 16mc . ] ( correction ) be the Secretary of State aware that the UK use to be one of the safe country in the world , along with Sweden , in term of road accident ? he have campaign with the Prime Minister to help the driver , but driver be kill more vulnerable road user and passenger than for a very long time . be it not time that this Government take road safety and the health and welfare of pedestrian and vulnerable road user more seriously ? I will say two thing . first , on Monday we announce a furth £ 35 million for our safe road fund . secondly , the hon . Gentleman ' s general point simply be not right . I think I be right in say that out of 38 comparable country , we be fifth good in the world . we have a very good road safety record and , actually , that position be maintain . we focus on road safety in everything we do , particularly for vulnerable road user . that be at the heart of all our policymaking . the a338 / A346 , which run north - south through Marlborough , be regularly choke nose to tail with heavy good traffic . the village of the Ogbournes and the Collingbournes be particularly affect , include Collingbourne Ducis , where a little girl be kill three year ago by a heavy good vehicle . that traffic should really be on the A34 and the A36 to the east and the west . we have be wait many month now for the result of the north - south connectivity review . will the Minister tell we when that will happen , so that we can have a well system for manage heavy good traffic through Wiltshire ? as my hon . friend know , I grow up in Wexcombe and I know that particular area of Collingbourne very well . I pass on my condolence to the individual family . he know that there be power under the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 . I will write to he in detail with the power that local authority have to address that particular point . on the specific of the review , that will be contain in road investment strategy 3 , which will be publish very shortly . I listen to the Minister ' s response early , on why Avanti should continue to provide rail service . it sound like he be read from one of its press release . the litany of excuse be very long , blame everyone but itself . when will he listen to the leader of the north ? when will he listen to the people of the north and get rid of Avanti ? the point I be make be that if the operator change , the contract between operator and the union will remain unless the union be willing to release . there can not be a unilateral change . the court would not allow it . as I say , that be put in place in 1997 . it be suppose to end in 2002 , but continue . it be now , effectively , a part of a term and condition . a change of operator will not make any difference to that . I do listen to those in the north and I be delighted that I will be listen to the leader of ASLEF , because he have agree to sit down with I so we can discuss those term . I hope I can work with all member of the House to make that happen . my Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill , which be due to have its Second reading tomorrow , would make it easy for motorist to make claim against local authority for damage cause to their car by neglect of road maintenance and by pothole . why be the Government not support my Bill ? I shall be the duty Minister tomorrow , and I look forward to deal with this matter . the Government have be promise action on pavement parking for a decade , but despite a consultation in 2020 , we be still no far forward . will the Minister finally listen to disabled people , parent , child and local council who overwhelmingly support a ban , and act to curb this dangerous problem ? that particular issue be on my desk , and we be consider it at present . I can assure the hon . Lady that the result of the consultation will be publish in the summer . for nearly half a century the people of Romford , and those of wide Essex and east London , have be wait for the Gallows Corner A12 / A127 junction to be reconstruct . be it not time we have some investment for the people of Romford ? it seem to go everywhere else ; let we have some in the London borough of Havering , please . as my hon . friend know , the Government be passionately commit to improve the A12 . only recently it be the subject of litigation bring by one individual . I will happily sit down with my hon . friend , who for many a year have be a doughty campaigner for Romford . I entirely agree with he that this need to be address . sadly , Marks & Spencer announce yesterday that it would be close its store in Doncaster , but would be expand its operation to a retail outlet where there be free parking . will the Secretary of State come to Doncaster to see how poor planning in connection with pedestrianisation , cycle lane and expensive parking be drive customer out of Doncaster and turn my city into a ghost town ? hopefully , with his help we can reverse this trend . I be delighted to visit my hon . friend recently , engage with he and deal with the individual point that he raise , but I would be happy to sit down and talk to he again . it seem to I that there be a way forward with bus and other form of transport to help local resident to travel to the shopping centre that he have mention : surely the integrated , multimodal approach be the way ahead . follow many conversation and much engagement , the Secretary of State and the Ministers be well aware that company in the railway roll stock supply chain , such as Hitachi Newton Aycliffe , face significant short - term challenge . next year we will celebrate the 200th anniversary of the first passenger railway in the world , which run past a Hitachi factory . can the Secretary of State update I on what he be do to ensure that company such as Hitachi have a long - term future in the UK to build the next generation of north - east train ? my hon . friend have be a doughty campaigner for his constituent . he have already raise this issue with I on a number of occasion , and I be glad that he have raise it again . I have have frequent meeting with Hitachi ' s management in both the UK and Japan , and we be work very hard to deal with the situation . Hitachi ' s hs2 order be confirm on the original term , and I be work with its representative . the Rail Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , recently publish the detail of the future rolling stock that be in the pipeline , and Hitachi be very competitively place to win order for much of that . I hope we will be able to reach a successful conclusion in the very near future . before we come to business question , I have to inform the House that there be an error in the Future Business section of the Order Paper . the hunt Trophies ( Import Prohibition ) Bill , introduce by the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) , should appear as the first item of business tomorrow . it have be correct in the online version , and will appear correctly on tomorrow ' s Order Paper . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . may I thank you , and indeed the Clerks , for your speedy action in resolve this ? the test of an organisation be not whether mistake happen — they do — but how quickly they be correct . I hope that your statement will also make clear to member who be think of attend tomorrow that my Bill will be no . 1 on the Order Paper , and that they will be here to speed it on its way to the statute book . I think we have just have the plug and the advertisement . business of the House to ask the Leader of the House if she will give we the forthcoming business . the business for the week commence 25 March will include : Monday 25 March — remain stage of the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill [ Lords ] , follow by a motion relate to the appointment of an act parliamentary and health service ombudsman . Tuesday 26 March — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] , follow by a debate on a motion relate to the national policy statement for national network . the House will rise for the Easter recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 26 March and return on Monday 15 April . the provisional business for the week commence 15 April include : Monday 15 April — consideration of a Lords message to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , follow by debate on a motion on hospice funding . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 16 April — Second reading of the Tobacco and Vapes Bill . Wednesday 17 April — if necessary , consideration of a Lords message to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , follow by Second Reading of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill . Thursday 18 April — debate on a motion on access to redress scheme , follow by debate on a motion on the covid - 19 pandemic response and trend in excess death . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 19 April — private member ' Bills . first , may I congratulate Vaughan Gething on his election as First Minister of Wales ? Vaughan have make history as the first black leader of any european country , which be something I be sure the whole House can be proud of — we certainly be . follow my question last week , it be good to see that the Tobacco and Vapes Bill have now be timetable , although it look like the Government will be rely on our vote to pass their flagship Bill . I also welcome the Football Governance Bill finally be publish , but when will we get its second reading ? this could have be our last business question before a general election in May , but the Prime Minister bottle it . he may hope that go later increase his chance , but he have quickly find out that he have make thing bad . he be be buffet by event rather than be in control of they , with more division , more chatter and his authority ebb away day after day . the many reset be not work . the public be just sick to death of Tory chaos . no wonder we be rise early for Easter . the House of Commons guide to procedure state that the Government should reply to the recommendation in a Select Committee report within two month , so where be the Leader of the House ' s response to the Procedure Committee ' s report on the accountability of Secretaries of State in the Lords ? it be publish over two month ago , and she have repeatedly tell we that she would reply to it . when will she bring forward the motion ? just this week , the Foreign Office have to be drag to Parliament again to discuss the horrific situation in Gaza and Rafah . it be not on . she say she want the view of the Lords Procedure and Privileges Committee first . however , I understand that she have still not contact it . have she ? let we address the elephant in the room . there be an unusual level of interest in today ' s business question , follow the swirl rumour and speculation . thousand of column inch have be write about the unfold drama . will she , win ' t she ? when will it come to a head ? yet the Leader of the House have remain tight - lipped , duck the question , but now we have the answer . the Rwanda ping - pong will not take place until after Easter . if it be such an emergency , why have the Leader of the House yet again delay programming this legislation ? she delay Committee stage over Christmas because of disquiet among Conservative Members , and now she have push back furth Lords amendment until after Easter . I know the Leader of the House will want to blame the Lords , but it be her timetable and it keep get stretch . be it because the cost just keep go up and up , and the scheme be unworkable ? on top of the £ 500 million price tag for the 300 people the Home Office intend to send to Rwanda , the National Audit Office ' s damn report , publish yesterday , add to the Department ' s woe . not only be the Home Office spend £ 8 million a day on hotel ; it have waste ten of million of pound on new site to house asylum seeker that will never be use . the truth be that if the Government be ready to implement the scheme , we would see the Bill back here next week . this be their timetable and their delay — no one else ' s . I know the Leader of the House will be quick to herald this week ' s inflation figure as some kind of proof that the Government ' s plan be work . [ interruption . ] I know that would get a cheer , but she might be less keen to highlight the ever rise housing cost that be not include in those figure . rent be up 9 % in the last year , and mortgage rate be still cripple homeowner . that be why , for the first time on record , living standard have fall in this Parliament . the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the right hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , claim this morning that the cost of living crisis be over . the Government be so out of touch that it be embarrassing , so can I ask about their plan for the economy ? they say they want to scrap national insurance altogether , and the Chancellor float another two - point cut yesterday , but who be go to pay for this £ 46 billion unfunded promise ? will it be pensioner or the health service ? People deserve to know . the last time the Conservatives embark on such a huge unfunded tax cut , they crash the economy and have to get rid of their Prime Minister . I know that many conservative Members be now actively discuss wield the sword and a coronation , both of which the Leader of the House be accustom to , but I have previously hear she in these session pay rather fulsome , sometimes slightly over - the - top , personal tribute to the Prime Minister . give that so many be lose faith , I think she might want to take this opportunity to give we another gushing homage . anything less might be misinterpret . last time she describe he as a " signpost " but , deep down , she know that the only direction he point towards be crush defeat . I have briefly emerge from under the hairdryer and put down my take a Break magazine , and not only find my way to the Chamber this morning but remember on which side I be suppose to sit , to be present and correct for business question , which be quite a feat if medium report be to be believe . I be buoy by what the hon . Lady have say . after all , we have see inflation fall to 3 . 4 % this week . real wage be rise , we have positive growth , household energy bill will fall by £ 250 a year in a couple of week ' time , average disposable income be grow and we have sign the accession treaty to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , which will create a huge number of high - wage job . it be confirmation that the plan be work when , on Thursdays , the opposition focus not on these real - world fact but on the Westminster rumour vortex . I will address the hon . Lady ' s point in turn . first , I join she in congratulate Vaughan Gething . I wish he well in his new post . I be glad that the opposition welcome the Tobacco and Vapes Bill and the Football Governance Bill , and I look forward to their support and involvement . I be still in time to respond to the Procedure Committee ' s report on the Foreign Secretary ' s accountability to this House , on which their lordship will deliberate . the hon . Lady bring up Rwanda , and I wish to clarify that I have no wish to blame their lordship for the delay to that Bill . I make it clear that I wish to blame Labour Lords for the delay . for all labour ' s talk of be tough on border , it have vote against our plan 111 time , and it have vote against our measure to stop the boat 98 time . despite its tough talk on crime , Labour have vote against our plan for tough sentence and new police power . this week we have learn that , despite all the armed force frottage come from Labour Front Benchers , they be plan an EU defence pact at a time when all effort should be with NATO , which have standard and clear and agree principle about what it will do and under what circumstance , and it have be busy — Ukraine , Kosovo , Iraq , support for the African Union , baltic air policing , aegean maritime security , Operation Sea Guardian , a stand naval force and , of course , disaster relief . in contrast , since its creation in 2007 , the EU battle group , which have no such agree threshold for deployment , have never get out the door . there could be no great metaphor to illustrate the differ approach between our two party : labour be all talk , include 126 minute on ferret last week , whereas we offer practical action . it be virtue signal over there versus result over here . it be unfunded policy over there versus cost proposal over here . it be no plan versus a plan that be work . to borrow from the opposition ' s new - find heroine , Margaret Thatcher : if you want something say , wait long enough and Labour will say it . if you want something do , vote conservative . further business will be announce in the usual way . I call the vice - Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . as the House may be aware , the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee be not able to be here because his daughter - in - law be seriously ill in hospital , and it be right that he be by her side at this time . I be sure the whole House will wish she a speedy recovery . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . ] on behalf of the Committee , let I say that our debate in the Chamber be now full until 9 May , provide we be allocate the time by the Leader of the House . equally , we be full in Westminster Hall until 2 May — obviously , we will have control of that time . so all those who wish to get application in before the summer recess should do so quickly , as the Committee have be work overtime to process these application . the shocking rise in antisemitism and anti - muslim hatred have be well publicise , but what have not be be the anti - hindu hatred occur on our campus and across our country . I have the honour of chair the all - party group on British Hindus and it have recently publish a report on that hatred , on which action be clearly require all round . so will my right hon . friend allow time in the Chamber for a debate on hatred of British Hindus and enable we to celebrate the contribution they make to this country ? give that it be Holi on Tuesday , will she also join I in wish all Hindus " Holi hai ! " ? first , may I , on behalf of all of we in this place , send our good wish to the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) and his family at this time ? I thank my hon . friend for step in for he and assist member with an advert for future business from the Backbench Business Committee . on the all - party group ' s report on anti - hindu hatred , I will make sure that the relevant Secretary of State have hear what my hon . friend have say today . I know that he have be campaign on this matter for some time and that he will have listen to what the Minister for Equalities say about it at Women and equality question yesterday . I call the Scottish National party spoke - person . may I associate myself with the remark about the new Welsh First Minister and pass on my good wish to former First Minister Mark Drakeford ? of course , we be grateful to the Leader of the House for make time in her hectic schedule to pop along to the House of Commons today ; all that leadership plot and scheming do not just happen by itself — she have be a busy bee . we can only pray that we be near the season finale of this endless Tory soap opera , but her leadership campaign have not stop she come here today so that she can ignore our question in person . every Thursday , she display some essential quality to be the next Tory Prime Minister . for a start , she regard question as a bit of a nuisance , something to be avoid at all cost . they get in the way of her important work record all those YouTube video about Willy Wonka , escape monkey or whatever . if member do not take my word for it , they can check Hansard . the Leader of the House be right to say last week that I have not send she through detail of my many unanswered question — there be just so many to compile . however , I be happy to offer a few reminder now . we have have no answer on whether Baroness Michelle Mone be a pay - up member of the Tory party , as she herself claim ; we have have no answer on the startling increase in child poverty in England — the Leader of the House be far too busy to deal with those distraction ; and we still have no idea how much taxpayer ' money be waste on her Government ' s initial " State of the Union " report to the UK Cabinet , which be write at the height of the pandemic and be still keep firmly under wrap until we get some insight at the covid inquiry . the report be still for strictly for Tory eye only ; even now , scot be not allow to know the cost or decision take to stifle our democracy . but with the revelation that 80 % of young Scots say that they want independence , it be no surprise that the Cabinet panic and swing into fervent Union - Jackery action . so will the Leader of the House take a moment from her busy campaign diary to answer these question — I make no apology for ask they again : how much taxpayer ' money be spend on that " State of the Union " paper ? what be the strategy the Cabinet be ask to endorse ? and when can we see the paper in full ? perhaps we could have a statement from the relevant Minister , if she do not have those answer to hand . before I get to the specific of what she raise , I have notice a consistent hostility and unpleasantness in the hon . Lady ' s question to I . this have be go on for some time — week , in fact . I be get the impression that the hon . Lady do not like I , perhaps even hate I ; her follower on social medium certainly do . there be patronise undertone in what she say . I believe she be say that I be deficient in my ability to answer her question , perhaps because I be a woman . I feel very intimidate , upset and deeply , deeply hurt . as well as note her question , I have be sit on the Front Bench fill in a hate - relate report form , which my official have kindly place in my folder . I will have one ready for every single SNP colleague who get to their foot . if I send the form to the scottish police they would be oblige to investigate , increase the grow number of reason why they be struggle to attend burglary . I sincerely hope that the SNP ' s new hate crime law do not have a chilling effect on our exchange . I be not sure the hon . Lady have understand the purpose of business question . the question that she have ask should be direct to Departments , such as the Cabinet Office and the Department for Work and Pensions . she can ask these question of I and I can write to those Departments for she , but she could also cut out the middleman and write to the Departments herself . I look forward to receive her list of question — I think it be now two month overdue . I will farm they out to the relevant Government Departments and ask they to respond to the hon . Lady . I call the Father of the House . I wish to raise two brief thing . first , the Leader of the House will soon see the parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s report on woman ' s state pension age and its finding on " injustice " and associate issue . the report be about the WASPI woman — Women against State Pension Inequality . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) who campaign with I on these issue and see various secretary of State . will the Leader of the House say how the Government intend the House to respond to the reference to Parliament consider the recommend remedy ? it be not a massive remedy , but it be an important one . secondly , the Leader of the House may have hear I question the Prime Minister yesterday about planning and building over prime agricultural field . yesterday afternoon , Arun District Council planning committee consider an application . all the member of the committee look as though they be go to turn it down , until the planning officer say the cost of an appeal by the developer be more than the Council could afford . all the member of the committee , except for the Conservatives and one Liberal , then vote to leave it to the council planning officer to make the decision . can we have a debate on intimidation on cost by developer that make district and borough council feel they have to approve something or allow something to go through that should be oppose ? will the Leader of the House join I in recommend the council call in the proposal and , if it do not , the Secretary of State do ? I thank the Father of the House for his question . I know the Department for Work and Pensions will want to consider today ' s announcement about WASPI woman . this be a concern among member across the House , and I be sure the Minister will want to update the House at the early opportunity . they will want time to consider what have be say today , but I hope that an update will be give to colleague before recess . on planning , the Father of the House raise a worrying concern . I be sure the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities will be concern to hear that people be not shoulder the responsibility to which they be elect . I will ensure he have hear what my hon . friend have say . this week , I be astonish and appal to find that Moat housing association , in my constituency , be increase rent and maintenance service charge in affordable accommodation to an exorbitant amount . something need to be do about that , because the increase to rent be over 9 % and the increase to the maintenance service charge be a whopping 50 % . those rise be due to start in April , so there be a level of urgency . will the Leader of the House ensure that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities look into this case , so that resident do not fall into in - work poverty and they be not price out of the area ? the housing association must deal with they efficiently and fairly , and keep to the formula initially give to resident to calculate such increase . I be sorry to hear about that situation in the hon . Lady ' s constituency and will certainly ensure that the Secretary of State hear what she have say today . I hope also that the organisation she refer to have hear her word and can come to some accommodation with its resident . may we have a debate on improve access to GP appointment ? in the north - central London area , the number of appointment in GP practice per month be now 680 , 000 — 50 , 000 up on last year — which be a huge improvement , but a debate would give we an opportunity to discuss how Pharmacy First can enable people to get treatment from their pharmacist , free up more gp appointment for patient with more complex condition . I thank my right hon . friend for raise this matter . general practice be now deliver 20 % more appointment than they be pre - pandemic , and more than 33 million appointment be carry out in January of this year alone . we have also bring in , as she rightly point out , Pharmacy First . I think that this have be well receive in our community , but of course there be always more we can do to publicise these new service , which be available to everyone in our community . the next Health and Social Care question be not until after Easter , so I will ensure that the Department have hear what she have say . be the Leader of the House aware that the big killer of child and young people worldwide be be involve in a crash on a road ? can we have an early debate to talk about how , globally , we do something vigorously to cut this back ? I have the privilege of be the chair of the Independent Council for Road Safety International . car accident kill so many child worldwide . they be all avoidable death . can we have a debate that focus on this ? I do know that , because I have hear the hon . gentleman campaign on the issue many time , and I thank he for it . as well as improvement that we can make in the UK , the UK play a huge role in help other nation get well at road safety , and I thank he for highlight that fact today . he know how to apply for a debate . follow the introduction of the very welcome Football Governance Bill , may we have a debate in Government time on the future of rugby union and how we ensure that professional rugby in England be effectively regulate and support ? club such as Worcester Warriors deserve their chance to come back into professional rugby , but with no certainty about the shape of next year ' s championship and a clash between the law of administration and the Rugby Football Union ' s definition of rugby creditor , it be hard for investor to plan with any certainty . a century on from when rugby be invent in the west midland , be it not a matter of concern that there might be no top - flight professional club in the west midland area ? my hon . friend raise a very important matter . I be glad that he welcome the Football Governance Bill . he will also know that the Government appoint independent adviser last year to work on the future stability of rugby union . we will continue to work with the rugby authority , include the Rugby Football Union , premiership rugby and Sport England , to support rugby in all its form . I shall ensure that the Secretary of State have hear his particular concern in this regard , and he know how to apply for a debate . the UK Government recently award council in England emergency funding of £ 700 million , much of which be in response to the crisis face social care . the Scottish Government receive consequential funding on top of the normal block grant as a result . however , scottish council be still face budget issue in this area . yesterday , my own council in Edinburgh have to agree to close two care home , reduce package and cut some funding by 10 % . may we have a statement from the Treasury , or perhaps the Scotland Office , on how it could be make easy for scottish council to apply directly for this emergency funding — [ interruption . ] there be no staff ! perhaps I should borrow one of the Leader of the House ' s hate form . as I be say , may we have a statement on how scottish council can apply directly when this fund be make available , rather than continue to wait for the Scottish Government to act ? the hon . Lady make several very good point . the devolved administration continue to receive about 20 % more funding per head than the UK Government spend on the same thing in England , and there be many example of the Scottish Government hang on to those fund and not pass they on to council or pass relief on to business , for example , which be very disappointing . she make an interesting suggestion , and I will ensure that both the Cabinet Office and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have hear her word . just five year ago , the gate of Appledore shipyard close . it be a picture of dereliction ; its workforce disperse to the four wind . but now it have experience a glorious revival . it have several hundred employee and 45 apprentice , have be take over by Harland & Wolff . a similar picture of prosperity and thriving be take place in Belfast today . may we have a debate on the revival of English shipbuilding and shipbuilding in Northern Ireland , which have be preside over by this Government ' s maritime shipbuilding strategy ? I could tell by the sound of approval run across the whole House that be my right hon . and learn Friend to apply for a debate , it would be very well attend . this be something that I be very passionate about , and I be pleased to have work with Appledore , and Harland & Wolff in Northern Ireland , and every shipyard around the UK , include the scottish maritime cluster , to ensure that we can build some new ship and smooth out the fallow period in those shipyard . this be an excellent topic for a debate , and I encourage he to apply for one . could the Leader of the House ask one of her ministerial friend to come to the House before recess to give we a report on the civil service pay negotiation ? a recent independent report by Queen Mary University find that civil service pay have fall by 1 . 5 % every year since 2011 . as the permanent secretary to the Cabinet Office admit before the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , the Government be now become a minimum wage employer . that have result in the public and Commercial Services Union balloting after Easter for industrial action . the union be simply ask for a pay award to match inflation and some restoration on lose pay . if we could have a ministerial statement we might be able to avert this decline in industrial relation within the civil service . I will certainly ensure that the Cabinet Office have hear what the right hon . Gentleman have say , although I do not think it be correct . in Departments that I have be in , where we have encounter low pay , or pay that be not above the national living wage , we have increase it — most notably , in my case , ensure that no member of our armed force or civilian who work in defence be earn less than that . follow a fire in a council - own property last summer , Barnet Council commission an independent investigation to assess whether there be any other similar property in the borough with the same fire defect . the investigation have identify 153 council - own property , seven leasehold property , and 426 freehold property that have be sell by the council under right to buy . they be all affect by the same condition , and 459 of they be in my constituency in the ward of Burnt Oak . they now constitute a category 1 hazard as define by the Housing Act 2004 , and the work to redress the issue be expect to cost £ 23 , 000 per house . can a Minister come to the Dispatch Box and advise the House on what assistance the Government will provide , particularly to leaseholder who purchase their property when those building be compliant with building regulation but now find themselves in an awkward and difficult financial situation ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work that he be do on behalf of his constituent on this matter . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be aware of the action that Barnet Council be take , and continue to engage closely with it on the next step follow the fire that he refer to . DLUHC official be seek further information from Barnet Council regard the nature of the risk that have be identify to understand whether its response be proportionate to the risk present in low - rise stock . the Building Safety Regulator be also aware , keep the situation under review and ensure that what be be do be in line with its statutory responsibility . he will know that unsafe cladding have be a priority for the Government , and we be invest £ 5 . 1 billion to fund the cost of remedy it , which be five time what the opposition promise in their fire safety package at the last election . queer theory extremism be have a pernicious impact on equality , right , education , health and criminal justice . on April fool ' day , the Scottish Government ' s illiberal hate crime legislation will come into effect , exert a chilling effect on political discourse and severely limit fundamental freedom in a way that be hardly imaginable . give that an incoming Labour Administration be likely to replicate the dangerous policy be pursue by the SNP in Scotland and by Labour in Wales , will the Leader of the House bring forward an open debate on the matter ? the hon . Gentleman will have hear my early comment . he make a good point . of course , we have always update legislation to ensure that particular group be protect and , where real harm be do to individual , action can be take . however , we must also ensure that free speech be protect . that be vital for a function society , it be vital for we to make progress as a society , and it be vital for humanity . this be critical stuff , and I thank he for raise it . the Leader of the House should know that there have be a shocking increase in crime in Greater London . in my own borough of Havering there be recently a stabbing in the Brewery shopping centre . local people be afraid to go into the town centre , particularly in the evening . under Mayor Khan , we have see a massive increase in crime . we do not get the police cover that we need . be on the outskirt of Greater London , and traditionally a part of Essex , we be treat very differently . will she bring forward a debate in Government time to discuss crime across Greater London , particularly in area such as Romford and Havering , which be be fleece ? we be pay for police cover that we be not get . my hon . friend raise an important matter . across the country as a whole , the police have do an amazing job on roughly the same resource — if we strip out online fraud , they have halve crime , which be a huge achievement . however , there be part of the country where that be not happen . he mention London , but the west midland be another such area . I know that west midland Mayor Andy Street be very concerned about this matter . every time we hear about the Met , the Mayor of London be nowhere to be see . the budget have be mismanage — there be an enormous black hole in it — and police officer in London do not feel that they be support in do their difficult job . the rise in violent crime in particular — knife and other crime — be shocking . there be an imminent solution so that londoner can get a well deal : vote the current London Mayor out of office . service charge be an industrial - scale scandal , lumber homeowner with unaffordable bill . constituent in Battersea have raise concern about unregulated , uncapped and exponential service charge increase , and they have also be hit by the Tory mortgage bombshell . in 14 year , the Government have fail to take action to tackle this unregulated system . will they make a statement on the service charge scandal , and what action will they finally take ? I hope that the hon . Lady have raise that matter with the relevant Department . the next DLUHC question will be on 22 April . I understand from the open remark of her question that it relate to particular accommodation supplier rather than to utility company and other standing charge , so I encourage she to raise any particular issue with those organisation . will my right hon . friend find time for a debate to allow Shropshire mps to point out that , contrary to disingenuous Lib Dem leaflet , it be the Conservative Government who be take action to clean up our river , to help consumer buy british produce from our farmer , and to bring down the cost of live by support the vulnerable , raise the state pension next month by double the current rate of inflation and cut taxis for those in work ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . in addition to all the progress that have be make on increase monitoring of storm overflow — which be just 7 % when we come to office , and be now 100 % — a huge amount of infrastructure work be be do across the country to ensure that we can reduce those storm overflow when they happen , and that sewage be not release into our sea or waterway . on 12 March , Water UK publish its storm overflow action plan dash - board for all overflow in England . I encourage people to go online and look at that : they can see the work that have be do , as well as future work , and the date by which it have be do . massive progress have be make . I agree with the other point that my right hon . friend have make . we be support farmer across the whole of the UK , particularly the Conservatives in Wales , who be fight labour ' s plan to make farmer ' live hard . I thank my right hon . friend for all he be do on all front ; he will know how to secure a debate on all those issue if he so wish . may I come back to the question of the ombudsman ' s report on WASPI woman ? I understand what the Leader of the House have say about the Secretary of State ' s want time to read the report , but he must have know for some time that it be come , and million of woman have be wait to hear the Government ' s response . the ombudsman itself have say that " DWP have … fail to offer any apology or explanation for its failing " . that be why we need the Secretary of State to come before the House . the ombudsman have indicate that it have take the extraordinary step of bring the report to Parliament ' s attention because it realise its importance and urgency , so will the Leader of the House suggest to the Secretary of State that it might be a good idea for he to come to the Chamber tomorrow and give a statement about what he intend to do about the report ? I hope I give the impression in my early answer that I think the Minister will want to come to the Dispatch Box — this be an important matter . I hope we will be able to do that before recess . the House will not be as well attend tomorrow as it might be next week . I hope that be satisfactory for hon . member , and I will ensure that the Minister have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . yet again , we have a bank closure in my constituency : Lloyds Bank be close in the centre of Cleethorpes . we have have some success in Barton - upon - Humber , where we have establish a banking hub , but there be always a gap between the initial closure and alternative facility be provide . can the Leader of the House find time for a statement or a debate on how to ensure face - to - face contact between customer and provider , not only in banking but in public service ? first , I congratulate my hon . friend — who have raise this matter many time — on what he have do to secure that banking hub and ensure his constituent have access to those service . I would hope that the banking community in his area would ensure that there be no gap , and that his resident and business customer can have face - to - face access to the banking support they need . my office stand ready to assist he in try to make that happen . lot of we , myself include , have constituent who be worried sick about their friend or family who be catch up in the conflict in Gaza . can a Minister come to the House urgently for a debate or statement on the need for a more widely draw family reunion or humanitarian visa process for people who be flee the violence in Israel and Gaza ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I hope he be in touch with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s consular service , which be work very hard with other Government Departments to ensure that anyone who need assistance have it . if the hon . Gentleman have any difficulty in access those service , my office will assist . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant my debate on hospice , schedule for 15 April . for many year , Darlington suffer from under - investment , but the last four year have see £ 23 . 3 million deliver from the town fund , £ 139 million invest in our train station , £ 35 million invest in our rail heritage quarter , £ 14 million invest in a vaccine library and £ 14 million to develop a hydrogen engine , while the Chancellor announce a furth £ 20 million for Darlington under the long - term plan for town . to add to that , the Darlington economic campus have deliver 750 job and be contribute over £ 80 million per year to our local economy . do my right hon . friend agree that it be conservative , such as I and Ben Houchen , who be deliver for the Tees Valley ? do she share my concern about last week ' s report on project be delay , and my suspicion that labour councillor be put the brake on project ? can we have a debate on the massive success that Tees Valley Tories have deliver for Teesside ? first , I congratulate my hon . friend on secure the debate on hospice , which I be sure will be extremely well attend . my hon . friend be absolutely right about the progress that have be make . I congratulate he on secure so much for his local area , and he be right . I think the employment rate in Teesside be 3 % high than in comparable area , which be a massive achievement . I do hope that his Labour council will get on with these levelling - up project . I understand that the planning process be bogge down , and they have not be able to get plan under way yet , which be very disappointing for his constituent . I would urge he to carry on , and ensure that these project , for which he have secure funding , come to fruition . World Parkinson ' s day be on 11 April , and this year ' s theme — there be not one face of Parkinson ' s — reflect the fact that there be 40 symptom for this disease and every Parkinson ' s journey be different . with a postcode lottery for access to the right healthcare and insufficient targeted financial support for people with the condition , will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on how the Government can well support each unique Parkinson ' s journey ? on behalf of the whole House , I thank the hon . Lady for raise awareness of that upcoming event . I ask all hon . member to raise awareness not only of the symptom of the condition but of the support available , so that people have good care and money go into research . I hope all hon . member will take part . the hon . Lady know how to secure a debate on the issue , and I will ensure that the Secretary of State hear of her interest . may we have a debate in Government time about a company call Decharge , whose rural site at Greenway , Uplowman , will be get 330 , 000 cubic metre of rubbish , rubble and so on ? what annoy people most be that the local council , run by the Liberal Democrats , will not scrutinise this properly . they have just stick their head in the sand like ostrich . the chairman of the scrutiny committee should spend less time work under the leader and a little more time not shed crocodile tear but actually do some work . we in this House all know what a privilege it be to represent people — it be a privilege we all hold dear — but it be up to local council to stand up for local people when lorry be go to be thunder down rural lane and disrupt the way of life of rural people . enough be enough : let we have a debate to sort this out . my hon . friend be extremely consistent in his criticism of his local authority . I be sorry to hear about the situation , and I shall certainly ensure that the Secretary of State for Levelling up have hear his concern . I know my hon . friend be a doughty campaigner , and if anyone can ensure that the impact of the proposal be alleviate for resident , it be he . follow the catastrophic kamikaze Budget of 16 month ago , the public be extremely concerned about the promise trail by the Government about cut to national insurance , with a £ 46 billion implication . will the Leader of the House either allow a debate or tell we now whether that will be do by increase income tax , by further cut to our public service or by increase Government debt ? the hon . Gentleman will know that be not a policy announcement in the Budget . the Budget be cost , it be independently audit and there be a clear scorecard of which the House will be aware . in stark contrast , Labour have keep a policy to spend an additional £ 28 billion without keep the pledge of have that £ 28 billion , which be illogical . I be sure an official from the Treasury can sit down with the hon . Gentleman and talk he through all this . all loss of life in conflict in Israel , Gaza or elsewhere be a tragedy . it be very important that the UK Government be work with the right figure , for aid purpose and many other reason . on that point , have my right hon . Friend see that a lead academic statistician from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania have calculate that the Hamas casualty figure be statistically impossible and obviously fraudulent ? that should not be a surprise , come from a terrorist organisation , but Government and Opposition Front Benchers seem to be rely on they . can we have a debate in those circumstance on the accuracy of statistic use by his Majesty ' s Government ? my right hon . and learn Friend raise an important point . he should be reassure that those figure from the Ministry of Health in Gaza , which be run by Hamas , be only one datum point that we use to assess the scale of the conflict and its implication for civilian . we need to ensure that we have the most accurate datum , and we be collect that from satellite imagery of building damage , information from our humanitarian partner on the ground and robust datum on living condition . those be all feed into our assessment . it be a tragedy that be unfold , and that be why we want to see a pause in fighting to get that aid in and to get hostage out . China be increase its carbon dioxide emission by more than the UK ' s total emission every year of this decade . China , Russia , India and other be open new coal - fire power station on an almost daily basis . do they know something we do not ? independent scientist have state that high carbon dioxide level would be beneficial for life on the planet through increase plant growth , so can we have a debate in Government time on the cost - benefit of net zero before trillion of pound of taxpayer ' money be waste , which will make the HS2 fiasco look like a warm - up act ? the hon . Gentleman will know how to secure a debate . he have just secure a debate on excess death , and if he follow the same procedure , I be sure he will have good luck in secure another debate . in Harrogate and Knaresborough , we have have more than 12 , 000 apprenticeship start since 2010 , and this week ' s announcement of change to apprenticeship policy be positive and will help those number grow . what I like particularly be that it will make it easy for sme to offer apprenticeship . the main message I hear from business be that it be challenge to fill vacancy and bring in new talent . can we have a debate about sme , apprenticeship and skill policy to give they the boost they need to fill the vacancy they be create ? my hon . friend will know that on Monday , the Prime Minister set out a package of reform to support business , include £ 60 million of new investment to enable more apprenticeship to be create . we be also slash unnecessary regulatory burden through our Brexit freedom programme and save about £ 150 million a year for thousand of small business . I thank my hon . friend for all the work he be do in his constituency to ensure that people be benefit from these initiative . the First Reading of the Football Governance Bill last week be welcome , but when will we see second reading ? there be no mention of it in today ' s business statement . we want to get the Bill through in time before the general election so that it become law , as it have widespread support . one thing that be not mention at all be the Renters ( Reform ) Bill . where have that get to ? all we have read about be discussion , debate and argument between Ministers and Tory Back Benchers over change that might be make to the Bill . in the meantime , hundred of people be be evict through section 21 notice , and family and child be be make homeless . when will the Government bring back this important legislation , which have widespread cross - party support ? may I start by thank the hon . Gentleman , on behalf of we all , for all the work that he have do across the House on the Football Governance Bill , and all the stakeholder engagement that he have oversee ? I have attend many of those meeting , and I know that colleague be grateful for his effort . these be important community asset as well as business . when Portsmouth face closure , I could not say to my constituent , " Don ' t worry : Southampton be just down the road ; you can watch your football there . " it would not have work . I know he be eager for the Renters ( Reform ) Bill to return , and I be glad that he welcome that . he know I will say that further business will be announce in the usual way , but I will ensure that official in that Department have hear what he say . I bring good news from Kettering , where Sainsbury ' s supermarket have restore free parking during the evening in its town centre car park . it have plan to introduce charge for out - of - hour parking , but it have listen to local opinion and representation from I , Kettering Civic Society and other , and have amend its plan . that be great news for those in the close vicinity , such as the Salvation Army , the Sikh temple , popular local restaurant , and Kettering Arts Centre , which be base in St Andrew ' s church . may we have a statement from the Leader of the House both praise Sainsbury ' s for its social responsibility , and encourage people to visit Kettering town centre ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his successful campaign . in addition to his constituency be the most dog - friendly place in the UK , as we learn last week , people can now park there for free . I join he in praise Sainsbury ' s , and everyone locally who have work to ensure that , and to ensure that Kettering town centre remain vibrant and open to visitor . if U Care Share be an amazing suicide prevention and postvention charity that support my constituent in Blaydon and people across the north - east . sadly , it be not successful in its bid for £ 10 million in suicide prevention funding , and some of its work be have to come to an end . as the north - east have the high rate of suicide , its work be vital . my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and I will be approach the Minister about this , but may we have a debate in Government time on the impact of short - term funding decision on charity work on this vital issue ? I be glad that the hon . Lady will take this matter up with the Minister . where people or organisation have not be able to secure funding from a particular scheme , the Department will work with organisation , or the local authority , to improve the bid , or ensure that the organisation can work with other in the area . such service be critical , and they also need to be sustainable . I shall ensure that the Department of Health and Social Care have hear what the hon . Lady say . my constituent Nadeem Anjarwalla , a UK citizen , have be detain in Nigeria since 26 February , with no charge formally bring . his health be suffer , and obstacle have prevent his lawyer and his family from ensure that he receive proper care . he have also just miss his son ' s first birthday . as the safety and security of british national be a top priority for the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , will my right hon . friend please allow a debate in Government time on how we can far enhance fcdo ' s support for our citizen abroad ? I know my hon . friend be work hard for this gentleman , and she be in close contact with the fcdo . as she know , official be in contact with his family and legal representative , and the UK ' s high commissioner to Nigeria have raise the case with nigerian authority . we have a Westminster Hall debate on 5 September last year about british national who be detain overseas , and it be well attend . my hon . friend know how to apply for a debate , and if she do , I think it would be similarly well attend . as the next question to the Foreign Office be not until 20 April , I shall ensure that the Foreign Secretary have hear what she have say . the ombudsman ' s report on raise the state pension age have now be publish . a key finding be that there have be maladministration by the Department for Work and Pensions , and that the UK Government should do the right thing , apologise , and come up with a mechanism for pay compensation to the woman affect . will the Leader of the House make a statement set out her support for all in the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign , and for a compensation scheme that reflect the financial loss and distress suffer by those in Ayrshire WASPI and Cunninghame WASPI , and all WASPI woman across the UK ? like many hon . member from across the House , I have case of this kind in my constituency , and have be work to support the individual involve . I reiterate the Government ' s position , which be that I be sure the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions will want to update the House at the early occasion . he will clearly have to read the report and reflect on it , but I know that he be keen to do so swiftly . this week , I have the privilege of meet the inspirational Hannah Gardner , who have incurable secondary breast cancer at the age of just 37 . recently , Hannah and thousand of other woman receive the devastating news that the life - extend drug Enhertu , describe by oncologist as a game - changer , have be reject by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence for use by the NHS in England , despite be approve in Scotland and 45 other country worldwide . she bring a campaign to Parliament , because it be the only realistic treatment available for she , and time be not on her side . can we have an urgent debate on get all party , include the drug company , NICE and NHS England , back to the table , and urgently approve Enhertu , so that Hannah can at least realise her modest wish of see she three - year - old daughter Lilah attend her new school ? I thank my hon . friend for all his campaigning in this area , and for all his work with a number of all - party parliamentary group . I also thank he for arrange for I to meet Hannah when she visit Parliament . she be an inspirational woman , and the fact that she be campaign so hard , not just for herself but for other people , be testament to that . I also thank the Breast Cancer now team , who also visit I and be do tremendous work in campaigning to ensure that not just Enhertu but other life - extend drug can be approve . I be sure that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will have hear about the campaign and will want to set up meeting to discuss it . I think that about 1 , 000 woman a year in England could benefit from the drug , and give that it be widely available and deem to be clinically and cost - effective elsewhere , I hope that NICE will reflect on that , and that a patient access scheme might be establish . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what my hon . Friend say . in contrast to what the Leader of the House say to my hon . friend the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) , at Treasury question on Tuesday , the Chancellor do not deny that he plan to abolish national insurance , an unfunded commitment cost £ 46 billion . he also do not deny that he might pay for it by increase taxis on pensioner . as it be not the Leader of the House but the Chancellor who decide economic policy , will she arrange for the Chancellor to make a statement to the House confirm how he intend to fill the £ 46 billion black hole in the Government ' s finance , and say whether that will be through tax rise for pensioner , cut to the national health service , increase in debt and borrowing , or something else ? I suspect that the event that the hon . Gentleman be recall be a dream , perhaps after eat a large amount of cheese . I do not think the Chancellor would have say that . I understand that the Labour party be try to establish this line , but I be afraid that it be not work , because the british public understand these thing ; they understand national insurance contribution , and Labour clearly do not . can we have a debate about the application of the Local Government Act 1972 ? Rob Huntingdon , the chief executive of Rossendale Borough Council , be seek to use it to prevent the release of a copy of a financial impact report on the empty home scandal present to councillor in the council chamber on 9 August 2022 , as well as seek to prevent the release of copy of document discuss at a closed session of the council under item d1 on 18 August 2022 . that be important , because his refusal to release those document , when add to the fact that legal action have be threaten against councillor who reveal what be in they — a gagging order by any other name — have lose the taxpayer of Rossendale and Darwen £ 12 million . the 1972 Act , if applicable in this case , be not put in place to stop local authority , their officer and labour councillor be embarrass by their own incompetence . my right hon . friend make his point very well . these individual be accountable to their resident , and those fact should be expose . I think he be right in his understanding of the 1972 Act and local authority ’ responsibility under it , but I will make sure that official at the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities write to he to confirm that . I suggest that his local authority and the councillor in question reflect on the stance they be take , and consider the right of the people who be pay their salary and allowance . my constituent at Lark Hill rely on the retirement village ' s ATM to access cash . while I be delighted that proposal for its removal have be withdraw , resident will now face a fee . do the right hon . Lady agree that everyone , especially old and disabled people , should be able to obtain cash safely and securely , and free of charge , in place that they can reach independently ? can we have a debate about link and community access to cash ? I congratulate the hon . Lady on the success of her campaign . there be a very clear responsibility to ensure that people have free access to cash . many people rely on it , and it be critical for certain community group . I will ensure that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have hear her concern , and that official contact her office with advice about the course of action open to she to insist that atm be reasonably disperse across her constituency . crime and antisocial behaviour be a big concern across Carshalton and Wallington , particularly violent crime , burglary and shoplifting . More police officer be on the street and crime be fall across the UK , but under Sadiq Khan ' s watch in London , we have see crime go up , the Met miss its recruitment target by nearly 1 , 000 additional officer , and a complete failure to get to grip with major issue plague our local community . could we have a debate in Government time about how we can well hold the Mayor of London to account , as he seem to not care about Carshalton and Wallington and the crime level that it face ? my hon . friend be not the first hon . member to raise concern about the Mayor of London ' s performance on crime and , most disturbingly , increase violent crime . my hon . Friend ask how we can hold the Mayor to account , and whether we should debate that . I would suggest another course of action : vote he out of office . the Leader of the House could have announce today that next week , the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , the Football Governance Bill or the Renters ( Reform ) Bill would be before the House , but she do not . we be tell that senior Government figure have say that the reason why conservative mp be be send home on a one - line Whip until the middle of April be to placate they and ease tension . this government have simply cease to function . their way of stop their most important policy be to send Tory MPs home , so that they do not have to vote for it . it be beyond a joke . can we have a debate most urgently about when we will have the general election that this country need to get this useless government out of office ? I do not think the hon . Gentleman could have hear my business statement , and he may not be aware that the Football Governance Bill have be bring forward . I remind the Opposition , who make allegation about Conservative Members phone it in , that we want our legislation to go through . if business be collapse , it be because the opposition be not do engage in business ; they have not even manage to get speaker for their own Opposition day debate . I suggest that the hon . Gentleman reflect on that . may we have a debate in Government time about the obligation on local planning authority to plan strategically for the infrastructure require to service their growth aspiration ? that be particularly important to I and my constituent in Milton Keynes North since the Labour - lead council announce plan for 63 , 000 new home across Milton Keynes . we do not have target in the way that we use to , but back when we do , Milton Keynes City Council be build 3 , 000 house against a target of just over 1 , 700 . it be not the Government who be make the council do that , despite what it say . our infrastructure will suffer . we need a plan for infrastructure before expansion , in particular for doctor ’ surgery . the Cobbs Garden expansion project that I support have mysteriously be bin by the integrate care board . we need that plan in place before we have any growth . I thank my hon . friend for all his work to ensure that his local resident have the service that they need and that , where there be development , those need be assess . I know that he have be campaign for a new gp surgery together with conservative colleague . he will know that the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 introduce new power to create an infrastructure levy , which aim to generate more funding for infrastructure project . local planning authority will be require to prepare infrastructure delivery strategy as they bring forward development . as the next Levelling up question be not until after Easter on 22 April , I will make sure that the Department have hear his concern about his constituency , and ask that official get in touch to give he advice about what he can do with the ICB . the Leader of the House know that this morning , the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman do not just publicise its report but lay it before Parliament , which be very rare . it say : " give the scale of the impact of DWP ' s maladministration , and the urgent need for a remedy , we be take the rare but necessary step of ask Parliament to intervene . " I be very disappointed that the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be not here today to provide a statement , so will the Leader of the House confirm when that will happen ? secondly and more importantly , when will this Parliament be able to debate and amend a motion on this matter ? several Members have raise the exact same point this morning . it be reasonable that the Secretary of State reflect on today ' s announcement , but I be sure that he will want to update the House before recess . BT Openreach be instal telegraph pole in area of Southport where resident oppose they . there have be no extensive consultation , and its action have result in a huge waste of police time . it have pay very little attention to the advice give last week , and there be huge health and safety concern . may we have a debate so that colleague and I can raise these issue in the House , because the telegraph pole be unwanted and be be instal unsafely ? I hear my hon . friend ' s request for a debate , but I understand that his action have already have an impact on Openreach . the Minister responsible raise my hon . friend ' s concern with the chief executive of Openreach yesterday , who will investigate . I understand that he will also attend a roundtable with the Minister and other mps on Monday to discuss this ongoing topic . I stand ready to assist my hon . friend in whatever way I can to get this resolve , but he be do everything he can and have already secure many thing that will get this resolve . it be get on for two month since the debate on mining community be set to take place on 1 February , when it be displace by the reforming of the Northern Ireland Executive . my constituent Mr Anthony Rock be be treat appal by the DWP regard compensation for industrial illness , despite the good effort of the National Union of Mineworkers . his health be get bad , and it be not about the money but about dignity for Mr Rock , and recognition of his year of service in the british coal industry . the Minister and other coalfield MPs need to hear this story , so can the Leader of the House advise I when we will find time for this crucial debate ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that matter . he will know , as I have state it before , that while reorganise the scheduling of such debate be a matter for the Backbench Business Committee , we will be give additional time to ensure that it happen . I be particularly keen to mention that specific debate , as I know member from across the House would be very interested in take part . I will also ensure that we flag his concern with regard to his constituent with the Department for Work and Pensions , as those departmental question have just happen . finally , and thank he for his patience , I call Peter Aldous . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker . I will conclude on the point that , I think , four other member have make , include the hon . member for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) , with whom I co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on state pension inequality for woman . we have have the ombudsman ' s report this morning . it make grim reading for the DWP in relation to its maladministration over many year . its finding on recommendation for compensation may disappoint many woman , but the main issue come out of the report be the need to lay the report before Parliament due to the low confidence that the ombudsman have in the Government come up with a quick solution . I thank my right hon . friend the Leader of the House for her assurance that a DWP Minister will make a statement as soon as possible . may I urge she to convey to the Department the need to go much , much far much more quickly to put in place a mechanism , work with Parliament , to ensure that this injustice , which have go on for many year , be remedied as quickly as possible ? I can certainly give my hon . friend the assurance that I will raise this matter with the Department . indeed , I will be do so on behalf of all member who have speak about it this morning . I thank he for all the work he have do with the all - party parliamentary group and on this issue specifically . as I say in my previous answer , I be sure the Secretary of State will want to update the House at the early occasion . order . I thank the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House for their presence throughout what have be a very lengthy session . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . one of the test case review in the report , which be just mention in the last question , be my constituent who have fight for a decade for the Department for Work and Pensions to right these wrong . she feel a huge sense of responsibility in act on behalf of the million of WASPI woman . in my office , we have be with she every step of the way . the DWP have treat my constituent and the WASPI woman with contempt , obfuscation and delay . shamefully , it be now fail to acknowledge these finding , accept the ombudsman ' s report and apologise for the life - change impact its maladministration have have on these woman . Mr Deputy Speaker , have you or the Speaker ' s Office have confirmation from the Government on the precise timing of a statement on the report ? secondly , give that the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman say that the DWP ' s refusal to accept its finding be unacceptable and that it have have to ask Parliament to intervene — clearly , it have no confidence in the Department — how do we as member demonstrate our lack of confidence in the Department and its Secretary of State ? I thank the hon . gentleman for give notice of the thrust of his question . first , the Chair have have no notice of an imminent statement . however , the hon . Gentleman will have hear the Leader of the House in answer to , I think , five question on the subject this morning indicate very clearly that a statement will be make as soon as possible . I be sure the whole House will welcome that reassurance . Bill Presented Climate and Nature Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Alex Sobel , support by Caroline Lucas , Ed Davey , Colum Eastwood , Brendan o ' Hara , Olivia Blake , Sir Peter Bottomley , Daisy Cooper , Clive Lewis , Stephen Farry , Alison Thewliss and Derek Thomas , present a Bill to require the United Kingdom to achieve climate and nature target ; to give the Secretary of State a duty to implement a strategy to achieve those target ; to establish a Climate and Nature Assembly to advise the Secretary of State in create that strategy ; to give duty to the Committee on Climate Change and the Joint Nature Conservation Committee regard the strategy and target ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 May , and to be print ( Bill 192 ) . Backbench Business Armed Forces Readiness and Defence Equipment before we start the debate , I should inform the House that while the Chair have no power to impose a time limit on open speech , Mr Speaker have make it plain that he expect those speech to be keep to a maximum — not a minimum — of 15 minute . in order to assist the opening speaker , I will now put the clock on at 15 minute . I beg to move , that this House have consider the First Report of the Defence Committee , Ready for War ? , HC 26 , the Eighth Report of the Committee of Public Accounts , improve Defence Inventory Management , HC 66 , and the Nineteenth Report of the Committee of Public Accounts , MoD Equipment Plan 2023 - 33 , HC 451 . it be a pleasure to open this debate . there be only one way to start it , and it be how we should start every single debate on defence : with a clear - eyed appreciation of the threat to our country , our ally and our interest . Russia , which the integrated review identify and its refresh reaffirm as our great adversary , have mobilise a war economy , spend nearly 40 % of its budget on defence and security . such be Russia ' s rush to rearm that , notwithstanding all international sanction , the International Monetary Fund have upgrade its economic forecast for the country from 1 . 1 % to 2 . 6 % , which make it the fast - grow economy in Europe . not only have Russia , through its renew and devastating attack on Ukraine , show its willingness to disregard every aspect of decency and international law , but its war machine be feed an imbalance in munition in Ukraine which we in the west be shamefully not do enough to counter . the reality of war be that , ultimately , production line tell . notwithstanding the £ 2 . 5 billion that the UK be spend on military support this year , we need collectively to be do more , not just in support Ukraine but in transform our own supply line . we need to enhance our own readiness to help deter Russia from a wide conflagration . while the threat from Russia be grave , it be not the only threat we face . in east Asia , from which the Defence Committee have just return , China have double its official spending on defence to $ 232 billion a year , although the real figure be much , much high . North Korea be nuclear - armed , dangerous , unpredictable , and in close alignment than for many year with Moscow . Iran and its proxy be destabilise the middle east , and , via the Houthis , pose a constant threat to shipping through the Red sea . in that regard , the Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force be actively engage as we speak . follow our withdrawal from Afghanistan , the willingness of the west to face up to these challenge be be study by the global south — country that be vulnerable to destabilisation and bad on the part of our adversary . any sense of the west ' s be distract , or unwilling or unable to rise to the challenge , risk encourage the increase number of autocratic state to act in contravention of international law . the sabre - rattle in Venezuela over resource - rich province of Guyana , a Commonwealth country , be just one recent example . have the risk picture change for the bad in the last few year ? clearly it have . have we fully rise to that challenge ? we have not . those of we who be old enough to recall the joy of the Berlin wall come down will also recall that we have , in that decade , be invest more than 5 % of gdp in defence — well over twice our current commitment . in 1989 , there be a justifiable rationale for reduction in defence spending , but what go down to match a decrease threat must assuredly go back up to meet an increase threat , and that be where we stand today . in the Defence Committee report , we be robust not only about the professionalism of the armed force , but about their ability to rise to any challenge . however , they be be run hot continuously , and that have a direct impact on their ability to train for , recruit and retain for , and be equip to face the tough challenge imaginable : a full - scale prolong conflict , alongside our ally , with a peer adversary . that be just one of many challenge that our armed force be design to meet , but it be the most significant — the challenge above all other that we seek to deter . I welcome the extensive engagement of our armed force in this year ' s NATO exercise , Steadfast Defender , but the day when that could be a routine exercise conduct by force dedicate solely to the preparedness to face the russian threat be long go . our force ' sheer range of commitment , from global engagement to domestic maca — military aid to civil authority — maintain constant pressure . the impact be simple : recruitment and retention that be not up to the task ; a hollowing out of munition stockpile and our mean to replenish they ; and an inability to prepare and train for the bad - case scenario at the intensity require to bolster our ally , and with the confidence to deter adversary . our report highlight the urgent need for change . to enable we to be fully prepare for peer - on - peer warfighting , something must give , be it the scale of operation and engagement or the size of national investment in defence . there be no doubt in my mind about the course that need to be take . the global operation conduct by our armed force have a critical support role in our effort to deter and prevent expansionism by our adversary . what the UK need be not a diminution of our ambition , but an increase in our investment . in say that , I be acutely aware of the regular charge that additional UK investment in defence be wasteful if the Ministry of Defence do not get its house in order on procurement . the Public Accounts Committee have set out in its report the difficulty face by the MOD in meet its equipment plan objective . report over the year , not least from the Defence Sub - Committee under my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , have highlight where the MOD need to do well on procurement . I have no doubt that we will hear from my right hon . friend and other about some of the core weakness that these report have reveal . the answer to my right hon . friend ' s question be yes . could he explain to the House that one of the thing that the Committee think about very carefully be how candid we should be about the weakness in our armed force ? after much careful deliberation , we do not include anything in our " ready for War ? " report that we have reason to believe our potential adversary do not already know . I say we would hear from my right hon . friend , and indeed we shall . he be absolutely right . we be incredibly careful as a Committee to keep to the right the side of the line . there be a lot of fact in our report that make for very , very unpleasant reading . I do not have time to list they all today , with the clock whirring as it be , but I commend the report . it go through some of the problem we face in great detail . as my right hon . Friend say , they will be well known to our adversary . if we do not front up to those problem , we will be fool no one but ourselves . obviously , I have a personal interest in this matter , but I believe that over the past five year we have see a real determination from the MOD to get well , and there be structural change that will embed improvement . the defence and security industrial strategy move the MOD away from competition by default and towards view our defence sector as a critical strategic asset . that have prove a timely intervention , place more emphasis on build sovereign capacity and great reassurance of our supply chain . dsis have mark an improvement in the relationship with industry . company large and small be more engaged than they have ever be in the early thought process around capability requirement and specification . there be well investment in senior responsible owner to exercise control and authority over project . when the Department and industry work together — for example , on Poland ' s defence expansion or on novel technology for Ukraine — it be a formidable combination . bake export and industrial co - operation into procurement at the early stage work for industry and for the UK . above all , achieve minimum deployable platform early and allow for spiral development , if properly invest against , will generate not only routinely upgrade state - of - the - art platform , but industrial partner that be able to retain and invest in their workforce and their research and development . it mean go beyond feast and famine , and towards long - term co - development . I believe that the Minister ' s recently announce reform be excellent . they institutionalise reform that really will improve our procurement , but for they to work as they deserve , there need to be cultural change . uniformed sro need to recognise the profoundly different skillset that apply to procurement . they need to be encourage to seek commercial and legal advice early in order to escalate problem . above all , they need to be willing to recognise that when a project will not work , they should take the learning and call it a day . if we be focused , as we must be , on cut - edge solution , we must recognise that some will not work . for any commercial entity , that be not a sign of failure ; it be a recognition that , in a portfolio , some risk will be take that do not succeed . in Defence Equipment & Support there be many good people do a difficult and demanding job , but I believe it be absolutely possible , as part of the current reform , to instil and reward great entrepreneurialism and productivity . DE & S have the pay freedom to do so . with cultural change and proper investment , the reform will move we from peacetime lethargy , influence by staccato funding , close to the urgency and realism that the threat demand . it be clear that no one on either side of the House should think that we can get to where we need to be against the current threat simply by be a bit well at procurement . as our report make clear , significant improvement be require in everything from stockpile to housing simply to retain and maintain the size of our current force structure , let alone increase it , as we should . I be glad that my right hon . friend have mention accommodation , on which I focus after succeed he as Minister for Defence Procurement . do he agree that accommodation be as much a part of operational capability as hardware in the battlefield ? I support my right hon . friend ' s point . we have " fix on failure " for too long , although it have change in recent year . More investment be be put into our housing , but it be need because we have a crisis in retention and recruitment . as the report set out in vivid and very scary detail , we be lose far more experienced personnel than we be able to recruit . housing be part of the offer to our brilliant defence personnel that we need to get right . while address all the issue I have mention , we must also increase our fundamental defence production capability . we underwrote commercial military expansion in the 1930 , and we should be prepared to do the same . it be absolutely clear that , although well buying will of course help , it should be alongside , not instead of , sustained , effective and increase investment . investment horizon on priority project must stretch well beyond annual commitment to allow proper planning . we will make saving if the service do not gamble all their chip on the delivery of a perfect platform when it be " their turn , " and they will not do that if they know funding will be there for upgrade . industry will invest alongside that , will work with small and medium - sized enterprise and will train the workforce we need if it know that we be march together for the long term rather than be march over the edge of a cliff at the end of every order . the need for increase defence investment would be true in any circumstance when face by the threat we face . it be all the more vital when the United States ' commitment to Europe be be question . since 2015 , this Government have show themselves to be ready to make difficult decision , have show leadership in the early day on Ukraine and have increase investment . in my personal opinion , the Government must now set out their timetable for reach and sustain 2 . 5 % . although decision should be take " capability up " rather than " number down " , it be also my view that we be unlikely to be able to meet and deter expand threat in the long term for less than 3 % , which remain a low level of annual insurance compare with the relatively recent past . however , the soon the Government commit and invest , the low the ultimate price likely to fall on this country . by do so , we might be able to help save all of Europe by our example . failure to invest could result in a very high price indeed . I really welcome this debate , in which five former Defence Ministers be speak . that be probably a record — certainly in recent year . I very much thank the Chair of the Defence Committee for lay out the global challenge this country face and some of the capability concern . give the expertise in the Chamber , I know that we will hear more about that . I stand here as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , which sometimes feel a bit like the second Defence Committee because of the amount of time we spend examine the vast expenditure that this country make on defence . taxpayer give this money to the Government trust that it will be spend well , but sadly all too often we see that it be not spend as well as it should be . we see money go in but we do not see the capability come out that we require . the PAC examine that defence spending and the delivery ; our job be to look at the economy , efficiency and effectiveness of how taxpayer ' money be spend by Government . as I say , the Ministry of Defence too often fall short on that . the Committee have huge concern about the MOD ' s ability to deliver project on time and to budget . this report be only one of our late on the subject . just because we have war paint on ship or something be very important , interesting and exciting technology to support our man and woman on the frontline do not mean that it should not be treat like any other major project in Government and be manage well and properly . there be no point in have something perfect but late if our frontline personnel need it . as our report highlight , recent global event , which I will not go into , as the Chair of the Defence Committee have outline they , throw into sharp focus why it be so vital that we deliver on time and that we have the capability , include industrial capability , to ramp up when something , such as munition , for example , be use apace . the PAC have examine the annual equipment plan from the MOD for more than 12 year . we have do that throughout the time I have be a member of the Committee , for the past nine year of which I have have the privilege of be its Chair . the defence equipment plan be the 10 - year programme for the capability that the MOD say it require and it lay out how that will be fund , and where the challenge and gap in funding be . all bar last year ' s plan be deem unaffordable , but the PAC take the view that even in the year when the plan from the MOD come out as affordable , it be base on assumption that be not realistic , and we do not believe it be fully affordable . in simple term , affordability be about the gap between the capability the plan lay out and the money available . as the plan cover 10 year , there have be time when Ministers , include some of the former Ministers present and perhaps even the current Minister , might have come up with reason for that . they say , " over 10 year , it be fine . we ' ll juggle it a bit . we will balance a bit . we ' ll get efficiency saving here and there . " we have see those argument and excuse far too often , and the efficiency do not arrive or issue arise and defence programme be put off and delay . by delay they we see a reprofiling of the cost , but no real reduction in they , and we see those chicken come home to roost . this year , the gap between the capability require and what be affordable be £ 16 . 9 billion — so it be nearly £ 17 billion over the 10 - year period . we can then add in what the Army would deliver . it be perhaps worth my explain that for some odd reason — the PAC have take a strong view on this and even the permanent secretary at the MOD have acknowledge that there be an anomaly — when the Commands and the MOD put in their cost for the programme , most of they put in the full cost of all the capability require , but the Army put in only the cost of what it could afford . if we add in the capability that the Army actually require , we be add a furth £ 12 billion to that nearly £ 17 billion , thus make the gap even big . there have be a clear deterioration in affordability . it be fair to say that £ 10 billion of that be because of inflationary cost — we partly know the reason for that , but I be not go to go into they now — and about £ 2 billion be to do with foreign exchange cost . again , the PAC examine those regularly with the MOD and the Treasury , but however we hedge it there will be some challenge on foreign exchange because of the nature of some of our defence procurement . do my hon . friend agree that that have be make bad by the MOD ' s tendency to purchase off - the - shelf solution from the United States in dollar , which be now account for a huge amount of the defence budget ? as she say , even with hedging , this be a deadweight around the defence budget . my right hon . friend raise an important point , and we could almost have a whole debate about that . we do not have time to go into the full detail today , but I will touch on our defence industrial strategy . that be what a lot of this come down to ; if we be buy thing off the shelf , it can sometimes be more cost - effective , but we need to be careful and cautious , because the long those project be for , the great the risk of foreign exchange challenge . there be also sometimes a risk to our own sovereign capability and the longevity of some of our defence industry . we recognise that , with our ally , we work in an international world on this . so there be no straightforward answer , but defence industrial strategy be an area that not only the MOD but the whole of Government should be look at , as it be vital . both the Chancellor and shadow Chancellor talk about grow the economy , and our defence industry be base in area where , if we could up the skill and job available , it could provide a major boost to the economy . so there be a lot of opportunity there . the MOD have not credibly demonstrate how it will manage its funding to deliver the military capability the Government want . our late report say that they need to get " firm control of defence procurement " because of this very large deficit in respect of the capability requirement need . the budget have increase , and I be sure the Minister will stand up to tell we how much extra money be go into defence , but this be about not just the money , but how it be manage . the budget have increase by £ 46 . 3 billion over the next 10 - year period compare with what be set out in last year ' s equipment plan . as I say , the PAC have warn that the deficit be even big than expect , so that extra budget will be take up by the deficit if it be not manage down . part of the reason for that deficit be inflation , but another major impact on it be the cost of the Defence Nuclear Organisation , which be responsible for the vital nuclear deterrent . those cost have increase by £ 38 . 2 billion since last year ' s plan . one of our Committee ' s other concern be that the MOD have be put off make decision about cancel or reprofile programme . Reprofiling be not always a good thing , but sometimes we have to trim accord to what be necessary . if the MOD can not afford the plan , it should take a hard decision , but it have optimistically assume that the plan would be affordable if the Government fulfil their long - term aspiration to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence each year , despite there be no guarantee that that will happen . of course , in an election year there be not even a guarantee as to which party will be in government to consider that . we know , and the Defence Committee will know even more than the PAC , how much the MOD be increasingly reliant on the UK ' s ally to protect our national interest . that mean that we also have to play our part by make sure that we be deliver that . for all the time that I have serve on the PAC — 13 year this year — the MOD have be lead by optimism bias , and it be now press on base on not optimism but the sniff of optimism , as there be so little leave in that approach that will deliver . we must call that out and call a spade a spade , by say that the MOD can deliver only what be affordable . so either the money go in or the MOD trim what it be try to do , because the approach of try to do everything all at once and not be able to afford it be just not go to work . I be listen carefully to what the hon . Lady be say . I have not cast my eye over the report she be speak about . she talk about the Government or the MOD trim project . the lesson of George Osborne slash the number of Type 45 in half have have a huge impact on naval capability , and of course we have more than 530 ajax tank to come . when we say that we must make saving , be we talk about a false economy ? in the long run , it be far well to increase the GDP spend than to slash project and totally undermine how the defence programme be originally lay out . I be tempt by the right hon . gentleman to go into all sort of long discussion about how the PAC look at these issue . resetting project and programme can certainly be problematic , and sometimes stop something part way through can be expensive . equally , however , alter the requirement part way through can add on cost . when I talk to the command or the centre , one problem I find be that people sometimes want to gold - plate what they be procure , and we sometimes need to look at do those thing in a different way . brutally , let I say that the current situation be not affordable , which mean we must make hard decision about whether something be stop or no long procure , or more money be make available . as I have say , and as the PAC repeat ad infinitum , if more money be make available , we need well project management . the MOD be also say very clearly that it will not make any decision until the next spending review . as everybody in the Chamber know , that be suppose to be in November , but a general election be loom . a spending review be usually six month after the first Budget of a new government , so we could be float on the fume of the current spending settlement until the summer of next year . in certain case , we will still be pour good money after bad ; the Ministry of Defence need to tighten up on that , because it can not live on hope alone . I touch on industry in answer to my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . industry need a consistent and certain supply of business to keep the supply chain go , both for resilience and to ensure there be proper investment in the necessary infrastructure . we have see some of our private sector industry leave equipment and building to crumble because they have not have continuity of supply . some blame lie with they , not just with the Ministry of Defence , but consistency of supply be vital and get that right provide a potential boon to the economy . the Committee look at procurement a lot . for the last decade or more , we have be say that senior responsible owner need to be in place for far long . they need to be where their expertise be need for the right period of time , and then be move on for the next phase of the project . we need to reward people who stay in those job , rather than expect civil servant or military attach é s to roll over on a three - year basis , think they just need to keep thing tick over . they need proper ownership and proper reward when they get thing right . the MOD be begin to move in the right direction on senior responsible owner ’ skill and longevity , but it still have a lot of work to do to catch up to where it need to be . I touch on funding timeframe . the Treasury need to seriously consider properly control long - term budget , as it be begin to do in certain area with the defence equipment plan . that do not mean give carte blanche to the MOD ; those budget need to be tightly control , as the Public Accounts Committee have make clear . however , control long - term budget be vital . finally , the Public Accounts Committee have access to many area of Government and all area of spending , if we choose to look at they . I pay tribute to my fellow Committee member who have never leak a single piece of information , of whatever sensitivity , in the last nine year . however , the Committee look at certain issue through opaque glass and it be now time to have full transparency . I want as much information as possible to be in the public domain , but the mechanism of open , public committee be not always appropriate for certain sensitive area , include defence . in our late report , the Committee recommend that there need to be a new mechanism and approach that allow Parliament to properly examine such issue in the right , secure context . that might be along the line of the Intelligence and Security Committee , although we would certainly not be look at information in that area and not in exactly the same way , because the Public Accounts Committee need to be more fleet of foot on certain day - to - day spending issue . it be time we have transparency so the british taxpayer know that every tax pound that be spend , whether on defence or on sensitive matter in other Departments , be be see and scrutinise by senior parliamentarian who know what they be do . it be an early thought of the Committee , but important to raise . we need full transparency so that official and Ministers who be spend taxpayer money in this area of vast expense be properly scrutinise on their work . rise — order . although there be not that many hon . member present in the Chamber , it be immediately clear that there be a considerable amount of defence expertise present . that mean we be likely to have a well - inform debate , which be not always the case . that be so , I will impose a 13 - minute limit on speech . that should enable all member to have their say , and allow time for a full and proper response from the Front Benches . I hope that will satisfy all member . it will be a formal time limit , which mean the usual injury rule will apply . if member take intervention , time will be add . may I begin by say to the Minister for Defence Procurement , for whom I have great regard and who be try to reform our broken procurement system , that everything I say in the next few minute be not personally aim at he ? to quote " the Godfather " : " it ' s not personal … it ' s strictly business . " at his speech at Lancaster House on 15 January , the new Defence Secretary now famously say that we be move " from a post - war to a pre - war world " . his word clearly resonate , both nationally and internationally . for example , when I be on a visit to Washington recently , those word be play back to we by Pentagon official . shortly after , in an unclassified letter to all conservative mp , the Defence Secretary stress the need for industrial improvement and to rearm , in term reminiscent of the 1930 . however , let we consider what that actually mean . the head of the MOD , a senior Cabinet Minister , have say , in effect , that we be now likely to go to war . although he do not specifically state who with — be it Russia , China , Iran or someone else — that one statement , which I fear may turn out to be true if we do not rapidly improve our conventional deterrence , have incredibly serious implication for our entire defence and security posture . the much - vaunted integrated review have now be completely overtake by event . in a world with increase iranian - inspire violence in the middle east , sulphurous threat over Taiwan emanating from Beijing and now the state - sponsor murder of Alexei Navalny , even the most naive liberal surely have to concede that the Defence Secretary might just be right . the integrated review , and its 2023 refresh , be completely lack in any great sense of urgency in response . similarly , the MOD defence Command Paper , which be mean to dovetail into the integrated review , also lack a sense of urgency , even to the point of retire a number of key frontline system , such as radar plane and tactical transport aircraft , in favour of new equipment , arrive much later in this decade . many analyst expect that to change post Ukraine , but no major equipment decision be alter , despite Putin ' s barbaric invasion in February 2023 — something that some member of the Defence Committee effectively predict in a debate in this House some six week before the invasion begin . the right hon . Gentleman be in the unique position of be a member of both the Public Accounts Committee and the Defence Committee . do he share my view that it be a bit like groundhog day when hear the word " defence " and " review " in whichever order ? I do not know how many such review we have have in the last few year , yet we never see the step change necessary to ensure we will deliver the capability our country need . the Chair of the PAC be entirely right , although in the MOD context , if it be groundhog day , " groundhog " sound like a vehicle that have slip to the right . more recently , after a detailed inquiry , the Defence Committee , on which I serve , publish a damn report on 4 February 2024 , entitle simply " ready for War ? " . I have serve on the Committee since 2017 and this be one of the punchy report we have ever produce . in answer to the question in the title , the all - party Committee , which include six former MOD Ministers , conclude : " despite the United Kingdom spending approximately £ 50 billion a year on defence ( plus more for Ukraine ) the UK ' s Armed Forces require sustained ongoing investment to be able to fight a sustained , high - intensity war , alongside our ally , against a peer adversary . " in plainer English , and as the subsequent detail in the report starkly point out , despite a considerable outlay of taxpayer ' s cash , we could not fight a sustained war with Putin ' s Russia for more than a couple of month before we run out of ammunition and fighting equipment , not least as we have very few tank , ship or combat aircraft in reserve . the full report can be find online . give that it take year to build a modern warship — a totally ridiculous 11 year in the case of the new Type 26 frigate — and four year to build a Typhoon fighter , if we have to fight what the strategist sometimes describe as a " come as you be war " , one with little further warning , we would have to rely on whatever equipment we have to hand or could rapidly remobilise . we simply do not have enough war - win kit to win as it be . as the Public Accounts Committee ' s report on the 10 - year equipment plan illustrate starkly , the difference between what the MOD aspire to buy and the funding it be likely to have available be £ 17 billion . however , it be bad because the three service account for the plan on a different basis . without go into all the technicality , an apple and apple comparison across the three service show that the gap be £ 29 billion . even beyond gap in capability of our kit , our great weakness be now the lack of skilled personnel to operate and maintain the equipment that we do have . without they — and far too many of they be leave , as the Chair of the Defence Committee say — even multi - billion dollar aircraft system simply remain in the hangar . one perfect example of how dysfunctional the MOD have now become in relation to people be the saga of Capita — or , forgive I , " Crapita " , as it be now affectionally know to the Defence Committee . it have totally mess up the recruitment system for the British Army . a few year ago , its share price top £ 4 ; today , it be barely 13 penny . everyone in Defence know that the outsourced contract have be a disaster , yet absolutely no one in the upper echelon of the Department have the moral courage to sack the company . the Defence Secretary recently describe the situation in the Times as " ludicrous " . he be absolutely right . indeed , no doubt he have make a note of his own comment on his own famous spreadsheet , but still nothing actually happen . capita limp on as the Army bleed out — with , in some part of the Army , three soldier now leave for every one that Capita somehow , painfully , manage to recruit . if we think we be go to deter the like of Vladimir Putin in this manner , we be live on a different planet , in a parallel universe , in a fantasy dimension . give that we now spend the thick end of £ 50 billion a year on defence , the british taxpaye public be quite entitle to ask why so little of our defence capability work properly . why be some of the Army ' s fight vehicle 60 year old ? why do we have hardly any battle tank that actually work ? why do we have hardly any submarine that be now regularly put to sea ? why do we have aircraft carrier that perennially break down whenever they try to leave port ? bluntly , it be because we now have a Ministry of Defence that have become in recent year a gigantic , sclerotic bureaucracy ; constantly hidebound by needless , self - generate red tape ; obsess with process rather than outcome ; in which some senior civil servant be now more interested in wokery than weaponry , endlessly rip off by some of their own major contractor , such as Boeing , to name but one ; and in which key element of our fighting equipment be so old — and the procurement system for replace they so broken — that we now can not fight a major war with Russia for more than a few week , as it well know . moreover , as the Red Book clearly show in table 2 . 1 and 2 . 2 , we be cut the core UK defence budget next year by £ 2 . 5 billion and play " smoke and mirror " with the donation to Ukraine and with address an overspend on the nuclear enterprise from the Treasury reserve in order to pretend otherwise . this act of what the Russians call " maskirovka " , or strategic deception , be wholly unworthy of a Conservative Government . if member happen to believe , as I do , that the role of our armed force be determinedly to save life by convince any potential aggressor that , be they to attack we , we would defeat they , then we be palpably fail . this be not an intellectual parlour game . ultimately , this be about whether our grandchild be go to grow up in someone else ' s re - education camp , but we might not know that if we walk into the current MOD . we can try to blame the military , for instance , for so frequently over - specify new military equipment , such as Ajax , that it enter service many year late , but in the end the responsibility lie with the politician who , theoretically at least , be suppose to be in charge . the Romans have a famous saying about military matter : " si vis pacem , para bellum " — he who desire peace should prepare for war . give that the Secretary of State , the man who run the Department , have tell we that we be in a pre - war world , surely we have well start prepare for it , if we be to have any chance whatsoever of prevent it , and we should now do that in earnest , before it be too late . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for give way . I know that he be come towards the end of his speech . would he care to remark on a couple of slightly more optimistic feature of deterrence , because deterrence of conventional force depend on far more than an equal balance of equipment , even though , as he say , we be nowhere near achieve that ? it also depend on our ally and other who will fight in the same cause . do he not accept that it be not just enough to take our defence spending up to 3 % or more , such as the 5 % we regularly spend through the cold war , but essential to ensure that our american ally remain totally involved in the deterrence process and that the Ukrainians succeed in fend off Russia , because if they succeed we can contain Russia in the future , as we successfully do in the past ? I agree with every word my right hon . friend , the former eminent Chairman of the Defence Committee , just say . my one caveat be that the MOD ' s excuse for these capability gap be that we can rely on ally to fight with we . but they will be rely on we , and if we be unable to support they or they be on wartime task elsewhere , thing might go horribly wrong . I say all of this not just as someone who serve proudly as a Territorial Army infantry officer in my local Royal Anglian Regiment during the cold war ; not just as someone who be still very proud to carry the late Queen ' s commission ; not just as a former veteran and then Armed Forces Minister in the Ministry of Defence , albeit almost a decade ago ; but most of all , as I say at Prime Minister ' s question last week , as the devoted son of a D - day veteran . Stoker 1st Class Reginald Francois die when I be 14 year of age . he tell I one night of the carnage — his word — that he witness that day , albeit from offshore , on a minesweeper name HMS Bressay . in the afternoon , they be opposite Omaha beach . let I quote Shakespeare ' s famous phrase : " this story shall the good man teach his son . " my father be a good man . the story that he tell I be of a country that eventually , reluctantly , have to go to war against the evil of Nazi tyranny because for year its politician have be so parsimonious — he actually say " tight " — and so naive that when Nazism emerge , we completely fail to deter it . that be the lesson of the 1930 , but it be also his lesson to I . my father make I take a solemn vow that , as his son , I would never take live in a free country for grant , because , as he say , too many good man have die to achieve it . two year after we have that conversation , he be dead . that be why I be here this afternoon . that be why I come into politic in the first place . as a wartime serviceman , my father be a great admirer of Winston Churchill , our great ever Prime Minister , who lead this country through a war of national survival and then lose a general election for his trouble . when I walk into the Chamber early this afternoon , I could still see the damage cause when the Chamber be bomb in 1941 . Churchill insist that it not be repair , lest we forget , and he be right . in summary , I may not be my father ' s contemporary , that famously courageous MP , Leo Amery , so I can not claim to " speak for England " on this matter , but I be elect to speak for the people of Rayleigh and Wickford , and so , on their behalf , I issue this stark warning today . the sky be darken . brutal dictator with powerful weapon at their disposal be on the rise . the democracy be on the backfoot rather than the front . history tell we time and again , and indeed ad nauseam , that the appeasement of dictator — be they call Adolf Hitler or Vladimir Putin — do not work . we should be increase the defence budget to at least 3 % of gdp — what my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) use to call " at least three to keep we free " — not cut it , as we now be , and pretend that we be not . the first duty of Government , above all other , be the defence of the realm , and we forget that at our peril . si vis pacem , para bellum . the debate encompass a wide range of issue . my colleague on the Defence Committee , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , outline some of they . I will focus on one aspect : industrial capacity , by which I mean not only the big , well - know manufacturing plant , or the well - know prime company that we often rightly hear from in the national medium , but their extend supply chain and material supplier , and equally their often under - remark - on workforce — not just the engineer and craftsman but the crucial production worker , who be vital for ramp up production and our ability to surge in a crisis . we have experience difficulty with that in response to the war in Ukraine . many in that supply chain also sell to the civilian market , include the public sector . many of the specialist engineering company in the midland supply Formula 1 , civil aviation and premium vehicle , as well as defence . they need order from defence and from public sector body to maintain their workload and employment , and to train the workforce of the future . that be why — this will be a theme throughout my contribution — a whole - of - Government approach be necessary . underlie that be the question of whether we be in a new environment or just an oscillation . basically , be there a war go on ? the people of Ukraine certainly know that . the baltic nation , Poland , Finland and Sweden know that . it do not mean that war be inevitable , but it certainly mean that it be now possible , and failure to respond will actually make it more likely . one have to question whether the commentariat and the british establishment understand that . the Government need to make clear their view on the state of international relation . do they regard the invasion of Ukraine by Russia as an interlude — a very bloody one — after which the situation will return to something approximate normal , albeit not the status quo ante , or have there in fact be a tectonic shift , and be we at well back in the cold war , although with a hot war go on in Ukraine and the danger of extension elsewhere along the new iron curtain that be descend over Europe ? that be clearly understand not just by the politician and the defence establishment , but by the public in Sweden and Finland , with a dramatic shift in opinion , after century of neutrality , and their historic decision to join NATO and become very active participant . even so , across NATO , there be not that sense of urgency , or a clear realisation of the crisis . only this week , the boss of the scandinavian ammunition company Nammo be in the press point out that society be still in peacetime mode . he give the example of its factory in Norway , which need additional electricity supply capacity in order to expand . a new site for TikTok have be create nearby , but the factory can not get enough electricity . he rightly point out that the defence of western Europe be slightly more important than cat video on TikTok . he contrast that with the Defence Production Act in the United States , which be the Truman - era response to the korean war , base on the Franklin D . Roosevelt War Powers Act . it give extensive power to the US Government , and they be use they . that be why they be respond to the weakness in procurement and ramp up production capacity , include through several Government - own and government - construct , company - operate plant . will the Minister indicate whether our Government be look at that as a possible mechanism ? do the Government recognise the fragility of the supply situation ? recent crisis such as covid , and the situation in the Red sea and Ukraine , have already show how vulnerable our supply chain be , and many firm and customer be find that the so - call cheap option can end up be very expensive . to be fair , that apply not just to the United Kingdom ; all around the world , company be find that extend supply line and single point of failure at home or abroad can have very damaging consequence . the discussion have shift , and now there be much talk about reshore , near - shore and friend - shoring . I be not sure how much of that have penetrate the calcify mindset of our Treasury and the senior civil service , but I hope that the Minister will be able to shed some light on that . this be not a eurocentric issue ; we must also be aware of the increase tension in the Gulf , particularly arise from the destabilising impact of Iran and its proxy across the middle east and north Africa , as well as the increasingly aggressive attitude of China , which be why deepen relation through AUKUS and with Japan be so necessary and welcome . I hope that the Minister can report on the success this week at the AUKMIN — Australia - UK ministerial consultation — and AUKUS conference take place in Australia . we fully understand why the Secretary of State be there today , rather than respond to this debate . we have to be clear that these problem do not come out of a clear blue sky . they be show to we some year ago . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford identify the evidence that we have from an american general . when the Americans conduct an exercise with the british Army about an outbreak of conflict in Europe , we basically run out of munition in about 10 day , but nothing be do about it . even once the conflict start in Ukraine in February 2022 , and it soon become clear that artillery would play a major role in it , the Ministry of Defence do not place an order for new shell until July 2023 . the Minister can not complain that I have not give he notice of this issue ; I have raise it several time in previous debate , and have never have a satisfactory answer about that delay . we can not afford that degree of indecision go forward . it be not as though we have not have shell crisis before ; we have one in 1915 , which bring down the Government . I be afraid that there do not seem to be much collective institutional memory in the civil service today . we be give £ 2 . 5 billion in the next financial year to Ukraine , and it be money well spend , but we can not spend the same pound twice , so do the right hon . Gentleman agree that if we rightly give that money to Ukraine , we can not then spend it on Army salary , british shell or submarine maintenance ? in other word , it be for the Ukrainians ; it be not part of the UK defence budget , be it ? well , it be unfortunately score as be in the UK defence budget , and in the claim that we be keep up defence expenditure ; that mask an actual cut in british domestic defence spending . it be absolutely right that we supply the Ukrainians — I think we should be supply more — as they be on the frontline and be carry the fight . we — not just we , but the rest of Europe , the United States and the free world — should be back they up with mat é riel . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that try to slip that into the defence budget , rather than it be part of our national commitment , be the wrong way of handle it . even with new production , I be still not clear — perhaps the Minister will clarify this — on what be happen with the increase capacity for propellant and explosive . across the western world , very few point — just two or three factory — be capable of make they , and they be stretch to capacity . I understand that difficulty , but I want to know what be be do to create new capacity . I know that the United States be do it , but what be we do here and in Europe ? in that context , I commend the article from Iain Martin in the Daily Telegraph , in which he say that , whatever our difference with other european country over the EU and Brexit , we should certainly be work much more closely on maintain and create new defence capacity — not just military but industrial as well . although I accept that the Government and this House must take the lead , other must follow . if we be , as I have be argue , in a new defence environment , the City of London and the finance house must accept their responsibility . they must make it clear that not only be investment in defence a good investment as it lead part of british manufacturing , but it be their patriotic duty and part of the defence of the free world . however , get that message across and change the mindset need a whole - of - Government approach , not just the involvement of the Ministry of Defence and those of we in the House who be interested in the subject . as I say to union representative in the evidence session , the union have ten of thousand of member in the defence and aerospace sector . they should not stand idly by while mob try to shut down their workplace . only this week , we have demonstration outside GE Aerospace in Cheltenham , which be , for over a century , the Smiths factory . there have also be protest outside the Leonardo site in Edinburgh , which I presume be the old Ferranti site . I hope that union be back not just their member ' employment but the national interest , and will look at whether any funding be go to body that be organise to shut those place . I fully acknowledge the issue face our uniformed force , as well as their expertise and commitment . I be pleased that other will highlight their contribution . I regret that the Government have take their commitment for grant . in any conflict , supply and resupply be crucial . conflict be win not just on the battlefield , but — sometimes even more so — in our factory and those of our ally . that be why we need a rethink , a reset and a recovery of lose ground . will the Government take up that challenge ? we face a world of complexity and threat unparalleled in our recent modern experience . scan across Europe , south - east Asia and the middle east , we see that this be a world where there be threat emerge , or already in place , to which we as a nation , with our ally , must attend and deal with . we do so in an environment where the most powerful — or almost most powerful — mechanism affect our life be work every day : the effect of technology and change in price . their effect be to bring forward new way of make war that might have be unimaginable two year ago . they have the effect of bring new actor — private actor , not merely state — into the picture ; that might have be unimaginable just a few year ago . we see evolution rapidly occur in the nature of the threat that we must deal with . the report produce by the Select Committee , which I be proud to join early this year , be in my view not just an exemplary piece of work , but testimony to the Committee ' s quality . I speak as someone who sit for five year on the Treasury Committee — no slouch when it come to quality and expertise — and then chair a Select Committee myself . I have be deeply impressed by the quality of thought , the experience and the attention that my colleague and Clerks have bring to these matter . the report be a very good example of that . crucially , the report bring out some of the foundational assumption that have not yet be adequately test in our defence thinking . it be above all about our readiness ; not just our operational and warfighting readiness , but our strategic readiness and our capacity to think ahead to where the escalating , multiply and develop threat might be in future , and how we can , in a full spirit of resilience , prepare for it . I congratulate the Committee on its work . I have be proud to be associate with it , and congratulate those who make previous contribution to this excellent debate . we know , because there be ample historical evidence , that democracy can fight war with an intensity and endurance that be not available to autocracy . however , it have historically take democratic state time to get move — time to move public opinion ; time to bring the people , the demo , with the politician and with Government , in order to bring the full resource of a nation to bear . in the modern world , we may not have time to do that ; we must start to prepare now — and not just our warfighting capability . it have rightly be highlight today that we be move from a post - war to a pre - war world . in that sense , we must give the need for resolution and resilience the profile that it require among people across the country . it be not the first time that these matter have occur , as the House will well know . in the 18th century — a time when this country be more or less continuously at war , with relatively small interval of peace — there be a period when there be tremendous concern about the effect of commercial society and peace . there be a worry that martial virtue might yield to " luxury " and " softness " , as it be put . we must be aware of that problem ; we see it everywhere . I myself be in eastern Europe before 1989 . I have experience what it be like to live under a communist country and in the shadow of Russia . it be nothing that anyone in this House should feel the tiny appetite to even glimpse , let alone endure or invite our citizen or ally to contemplate . we must be absolutely resolute in think about how we can ensure a gradual process — without the loss of our democratic value , and give our constraint — to ready our people for strategic decision in due course . everyone in this House pray that it will never happen , but we must prepare ourselves for the possibility that there could be some development for which we be , as yet , inadequately prepare . we must address that as a matter of money , organisation and , of course , talent . we must fill the strategic gap in our thinking — a gap that be only be accelerate by the rapid growth in artificial intelligence , which threaten to upend not just many of the resource and system that we use in this country , but much of the strategic thinking that we be bring to the whole question of what it be to be at war . if member doubt that , they should look at the work that be be do . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) rightly mention maskirovka : the use of AI in mimicry , spoofing and false - flag operation . that be something that we as a country be just begin to get our head around , even at an advanced defence and security level . we have an escalating series of security challenge . the solution to they be not more state , as such , but a much more intelligent deployment of the relationship between state and market ; between the public and the private ; and between the secret , the grey and the not - so - secret . we have to bring all those resource with we if we be go to be successful , and we have to be more emphatic about the desperate need for competence . that mean competence not just in our civil service and our military capability , and of course in the agency that work alongside they , but in this House . our political party have a responsibility to develop , recruit , enable , understand , enfranchise and promote talent , and I put it to the House that no political party be do that adequately at the moment . we should have chief talent officer in political party — people actively think about where we can find competence , capability , knowledge and experience , and how we can deploy those thing in this great Chamber in which we have the honour to sit . the deep issue here , if I may say so , be not just that we have a civil service that be — as my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford mention — preoccupy with process in a way that be understandable in peace but , I be afraid , inadequate to the preparation for war . it be not just that there be a preoccupation with process over outcome , when outcome be the only thing that matter when we be try to deliver a capability ; it be that we as a nation have not yet make the intellectual , moral , emotional and spiritual shift towards deeply prepare for a pre - war situation . if I may make a party political point for a second , the Government have do a splendid job in start to take control of a very difficult fiscal situation , which they inherit and be build up through crisis over the past few year , but to what end ? as be say famously by a man nearly 250 year ago in Bristol , we come to this House not as a " congress of ambassador " , but as " a deliberative assembly of one nation , with one interest " . that interest can not be sectionalise , include within Government . I say that as a former Financial Secretary ; my Chairman , my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , be also a former Financial Secretary , and we do not say that the budget for defence should go up because we want to be profligate , nor that there should be anything less than proper constraint and proper scrutiny of the long - term spending of this country , but it must go up . that must be share across both party ; it must be something that even the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer should bear in mind and account for in this Chamber as if they be prepare for war , so that we can all know that they have come to term with the compromise , difficulty and challenge that we all face today . I begin by join the Chair of the Defence Committee , the right hon . member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , in thank the man and woman of our armed force — we should never forget their dedication . it be often say that the first duty of government be to keep the nation safe and protect its citizen , but we have a conservative party that have admit that it have " hollow out " defence . we have have a return to war in Europe and grow threat around the world , as have be explain , and we now need a clear - eyed vision of what we need to do in defence . it be about deterrence — there have be a lot of talk about warfighting , but the success of defence be in deter action from happen . we need to recognise how we have get to where we be today . I hear all the call from Conservative Members for increase in defence expenditure . I do not question those individual ’ commitment or dedication , because I know that many of they be very committed individual who believe in defence , as I do . however , I find it a little ironic that between 2010 and 2016 , the defence budget in this country be cut by 18 % . even with the increase , the defence budget be still 7 % low than it be in 2010 , and the Budget on 6 March include a cut in the defence budget . I hear all the stir cry for increase the defence budget , but we do not get into this situation by accident . in 2010 , we have a Conservative - lead coalition Government who try to scare the public by say that they inherit a £ 36 billion black hole in the defence budget . that be absolute nonsense . the figure come from a 2009 NAO report on the equipment budget that say that there be a £ 6 billion black hole in that budget , and that if we have flat cash for the next 10 year , the figure would be £ 30 billion . the spin doctor add another £ 6 billion to that figure , and it become the myth that be reiterate . that myth mask what the Government be really up to , which be slash the defence budget over that period , and we be still see the consequence of those decision . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , whom I respect , talk about a 1930s moment . I agree that we be in a 1930s moment — the similarity be there . in the 1920s and 1930 , the Conservative Government cut defence expenditure , include Winston Churchill , who admit it in later life . he be Chancellor . as Chancellor of the Exchequer , he cut defence expenditure , so there be parallel there , but not the one that the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford be refer to . another key feature of that era be the Treasury ' s 10 - year rule of base defence expenditure on the assumption that there would not be a war in Europe within the next 10 year , which rather unravel at the end of the 1930 . it do . if we look back , the common theme — it be a matter of fact , whether people like it or not — be that we have defence cut under conservative Governments , and when Labour be in power we maintain or increase the defence budget . I hope this do not come across as nit - picking — it be important . the 10 - year rule , which be a rolling 10 year , be not just a Treasury policy : it be the policy of the entire Government , and it be not rescind by the incoming Labour Government in the 1920 . it be the policy of the whole government , and it be only rescind in the mid - 1930 , a few year after Adolf Hitler become Chancellor of Germany . it be important to get that right . the right hon . Gentleman have get that on the record . I be not go to get into a history lesson about the 10 - year rule — I think the history book tell the story — but we have see what happen from 2010 onwards . we have have a cut of 40 , 000 personnel in our armed force , and it be not just about number ; it be about experience . individual be make compulsorily redundant . if I have make people compulsorily redundant when I be a Defence Minister , the Sun and the right - wing press in this country would have be shout from the rooftop , but they do absolutely nothing , and we lose experience . one in five of our ship be remove , as be more than 200 aircraft , and the satisfaction rating among our armed force personnel be now below 50 % . we have have a system over the past few year that have waste money , as we have chronicle in our report , and we actually now have the £ 30 billion black hole in our equipment budget that be predict in 2009 , as the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , have refer to . this be not about whether the defence budget be 2 % , 3 % or 5 % . it be about look at how we have get into this situation , and how we change it — how we face the challenge that confront we today . whichever party be in government after the next election will have to face those challenge , but we have to get away from british exceptionalism . we have great ambition to be a global power , like some kind of imperial power . I be sorry , but we be not . we can continue that myth ad infinitum , but unless we link the resource to the ambition , it be not go to work . for the past few year , we have have the nonsense slogan of " global Britain " — some pre - imperialist view of what we be do around the world . I be sorry , but it be absolute nonsense . we have to look at what we can do to protect our own defence . the idea that we be go to be a major player in anything that happen in the south - east of the South China sea — that have two offshore patrol vessel base in Singapore be go to deter the Chinese — be nonsense . if anything happen there , frankly , any commitment that we could give be like a gnat on the backside of an elephant compare with what the Americans would be able to do . we have to be realistic about that . what do we need to do ? we need to look at what we must deliver as part of our NATO commitment . we also need to get away from the myth — and it be a myth , in our Army in particular — that we will deliver a force of divisional strength under any NATO commitment . we can not do it now , we have not be able to do it for quite a few year , and we just need to be realistic about that . we need to sit down with NATO and look at what we can contribute to european defence . clearly , the nuclear deterrent be a key part of that . however , do we , for example , need a full spectrum Army ? no , we do not . we need to plug into our NATO ally , and ask what we can deliver well as part of the overall defence against the threat come not only from Russia in Europe , but increasingly from China in the north Atlantic as we get global warming and the opening of sea lane . there be an idea that we will be send aircraft carrier around the world . no , we will not . we need to commit they to NATO , and that mean some very tough decision . it also mean that we need a mindset change . we have to be honest with the public about this , and say that we will not be able to do everything . there be then some hard decision to be take about the armed force . for example , we should say to the Army , " we ' re not go to be do that , but we be go to do this very well . we will dovetail that into NATO commitment , and actually make a real difference . " there be big decision that will have to be take by any Government , whoever get in after the next election . please let we get away from the myth — and it be a myth — that we will be go around the world and intervene in every single conflict . for example , look at the air strike on the Houthis in the last few week . we have contribute four aircraft because we want to be see to be alongside the Americans , but I would ask : what be the strategy for do that ? there be no strategy . okay , we have bomb the Houthis , but be that go to resolve the situation ? no , it be not . do it show that Britain be a global power ? no , it do not . frankly , we do not have the resource , unless someone will say that the defence budget be go to be 3 % , 4 % , 5 % , 6 % or 7 % , but no Government be go to commit to that . I say to Conservative Members and the commentariat in our right - wing press that they should just be honest with the british people about what we can do . we can and do have a valuable role to play in NATO and we have willing partner that want to work with we . I be certainly very excited about Sweden and Finland join , although we need to make sure that we actually get those commitment . as I say , some hard decision have to be take and there be some home truth for our armed force . as the Chair of the PAC say , there be capability that we will just have to get out of . we will have to say , " we ' re not go to do that , but we ' re go to do this and we ' re go to do it well , and we be go to contribute , " and that will maximise our influence . on China , people ask : do we just forget about the South China sea ? no , we do not . we use our strong diplomacy , and our great and fantastic ability with technology and other thing in those area , but it be not about deploy people or equipment out there . frankly , the soon we get the reality of such a wake - up call , the well . I will always call , and I have always call , for increase defence expenditure , but I will not do so if it be just to try to plug a vision that will never ever be achieve . we need to make sure that we spend that money well . that lead on to the point about skill raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Warley ( John Spellar ) . we need to see any defence expenditure as potential growth in our economy . however , we be not do that if we be give contract to the United States , or to Spain for fleet solid support ship , and not think about grow our defence industry here . I accept that there have to be international collaboration , but we must have give and take . the idea that the French would ever give an FSS ship contract to a spanish shipyard , frankly , be just — laughable . it be laughable , as my right hon . Friend say . we need to make sure that we actually invest , because this be about skill and about ensure that we have the workforce . we have see the effect when we just pull out of such work . we can not look at our skill base as a tap , which we turn on when we want it and turn off again when we do not . we can not do so , because we have see the cost of that — for example , on the Astute programme . to be political , it be again the Conservative Government who stop build submarine , so we have a gap in skill , and it have take all the effort recently to rebuild that skill base and ensure we get it back . we must have such a skill base continually , and that have to be do by work with our european ally . whether the zealot of Brexit and the anti - Europeans like it or not , if we be talk about thing such as stockpile , we do have to work with ally and make sure that we can deliver they through the supply chain we have . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? no . I be sorry , but I do not have the time . I now come on to what will happen after the next general election . be there go to be a massive increase in defence expenditure whoever win the election ? no , there be not . we know that , so let we just tell the public that . what we need to ensure be that we get the maximum effect from what we do spend . my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , who speak for the Labour party on defence , will — if he get the job — have a big task face he if we be successful at the next general election . my heart sink a little when he talk about review . yes , we need to have a review , but we also need action straightaway . it be now critical that we take some key decision , and there be very difficult discussion to be have , not just with the british people about where Britain be realistically in the world today , but with some of the member of the armed force and the chief , in say , " we ' re go to do this , and we ' re go to do it well , and we ' re go to make sure we be safe as a nation . " be that defeatism or say that Britain be finish ? no , it be not . I think we have a proud future , and we have some great military and diplomatic asset , include in the way we do thing . however , we should not delude ourselves that we will be go back to some pre - Suez or pre - second world war global Britain as an imperialist power . we be just not go to be able to do that , and I think we have to be honest with the british people . there also now have to be speed . as my right hon . friend the Member for Warley ( John Spellar ) say about munition shell , we can not have a situation in which it take a year for munition stock to be replace . the tempo have to be increase , so action will have to be take very quickly . I be all in favour of a review and a study of policy — in the last few year in this country we have lack any thought - out policy work or strategy , and we need that — but we also need action . it be a daunting task that will face any government after the next general election , but let we be proud of the member of our armed force , who work on our behalf to keep we secure . there be an impression that defence be somehow a conservative issue ; I be sorry , but it be not a conservative issue . a lot of the man and woman in our armed force come from the poor and most deprived community in our country , but they be proud to serve their country , and I think we should be proud of they . we should give they the clear commitment that they have our backing , but be clear with they that we must be realistic about the task we ask they to do to keep we safe . it be an honour to take part in this debate . I pay tribute to the Defence Committee and the Public Accounts Committee for what I agree be exceptionally good report . I echo my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) on that point . this be possibly the most important speech I will give as an MP , and I do so on behalf of the military in my constituency of Devizes . I have the honour to represent the garrison town of Tidworth , Bulford , Larkhill and other . I go up on Salisbury plain recently with Colonel Matt Palmer , the commander of the Army in the south - west , who show I with the sweep of his arm where 20 , 000 of our armed force live and work . as my right hon . Friend say , we be not here just as ambassador for our constituency ; I be go to speak in my role as an MP about the essential imperative of national security . I will , however , first make another local point . in the Devizes constituency be the site of the battle of Roundway Down , which be the most successful battle in the royalist cause in the english civil war , in that it give the south - west to the King for the next two year . I mention the battle of Roundway Down , because it be that defeat of the parliamentary force that spur the reform of the parliamentary army . that lead to the creation of the new model army , which of course go on to win the civil war , and transform the way in which the military in this country and across Europe be organise for decade to come . the lesson of the new model army and the reform that happen in short order in the 1640 be not about a major new doctrine of warfighting , but about the imperative of have a well equipped , well train , well lead army that be innovative , agile , professional and with high morale . we need that again . I mention that because it be on my mind , have yesterday have the pleasure of attend a session at the Royal United Services Institute organise by the New Bletchley foundation lead by Brigadier Nigel Hall . it be issue a report with input from a galaxy of distinguished former general and other expert . Sir Richard Barrons be on the panel , as be Professor Michael Clark and other . they put forward a short report that member can find online on a proposal for a reconfigured Army . the point the panel make — it have be make repeatedly in this debate — be simple : we have to be ready to fight the war we wish to deter . that mean really ready , not just ready on paper or ready plausibly in a way that might convince someone on a doorstep that we be make sufficient investment in the Army . we need to know that we be ready , and crucially our enemy need to know that . I echo the point make by the Chair of the Defence Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) and by my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) that our enemy know what our capability be . they will not be deceive by spin from a press officer in Whitehall . it be essential that we be ready to fight the war . the sad fact — there be no point sugar - coat it , give the point I have just make — be that we be not ready to fight the war we wish to deter . the report make that plain . I have great respect for Ministers on the Front Bench , and I recognise the genuine investment go into part of our armed force , which be extremely welcome in my constituency , but the fact be , as General Barrons say yesterday , " we be back in a moment of existential risk in an era of great power confrontation " . lay aside the fantasy of the post - cold war world of our be somehow beyond war and in an era of minor peacekeeping operation , we be back in a sense in the mid - 20th century , with the crucial difference of the high - tech domain with which we be now come to term . unlike the mid - 20th century , we have hollow out our Army over the past 30 year , and I echo the powerful point that my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford make draw a comparison with the 1930 — that " low dishonest decade " , as it have famously be call . we now have three decade where we have suffer disinvestment . while I acknowledge the major funding commitment be make to the armed force , I highlight that they be insufficient at the moment . I recognise that abstract percentage of GDP be in a sense secondary to the real question of how we spend money and where it go , but those figure be important , and the basic fact be that we need to be spend more than 2 % or 2 . 5 % , and at least 3 % . if we consider the bad come to the bad , and the US withdraw its NATO commitment , as we hear threaten from time to time , across the NATO alliance we would all be need to reach at least 4 % just to maintain NATO ' s current strength . a recent meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly that I attend assess that it would need to be an increase of 5 % of gdp on top of current spend , be the Americans to pull out . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for that . these figure seem extraordinarily large to we , but if we consider the bad come to the bad , and our be in a hot war in Europe , we would be back to spend significantly more . it be 50 % of gdp in world war two , so the figure we be talk about be essentially marginal in light of the potential . the point have be make — it can not be make enough — that before defence get more money , it need to spend its own money well . I echo the point make about the importance of procurement reform . the Public Accounts Committee report be damn . there be a £ 17 billion deficit between the MOD ' s budget and its official capability requirement , which be perhaps an underestimate , as my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford say , give how these number be calculate . I be concerned about that . to make a quick point in pass , I would be interested in the Minister ' s thought when he wind up about the nuclear budget . there be real concern about how Trident ' s replacement will be account for . there be a danger that if that be just part of general MOD capital expenditure , it could end up cannibalise conventional weapon . it be important , give the long - stand tradition , that we keep nuclear separate from conventional weapon budget . give what the hon . Gentleman have just say , do he agree that it would be good to have tight scrutiny of that spending , which might mean a new system set up so that we can look at sensitive matter ? I defer to those on the Front Bench on what transparency be appropriate , but I recognise the point make in the hon . Lady ' s Committee ' s report and I think in the Defence Committee report about the difficulty of get the information that the Committees need to do their work . I recognise that nuclear be identify as a separate line in the budget and be protect in theory , but I be concerned about what might be a marginal increase in this enormous budget . it be around a quarter of our total defence spending . if that increase even marginally and the shortfall have to be make up from our conventional defence budget , that entail a significant reduction in that conventional spending , which be so important at the present time . accord to the MOD ' s own figure in the late supplementary estimate , the amount we be spend on what it call the defence nuclear enterprise be now guste towards 20 % . everything my hon . Friend say about the risk of that gradually eat everything else be entirely correct . I thank my right hon . friend for that . if we manage to get the genuine increase in defence spending that be need , the question then arise of how to spend that and where the money should go . I say this not just on behalf of the 20 , 000 or so defence personnel in Wiltshire , but because it be the right thing to do : we need to put people first . I recognise that there have be a significant step change in the doctrine of defence policy in recent year towards the recognition that an army be fundamentally about its people , and I respect that . the fact be , probably because of the many decade of disinvestment , that we have problem of low morale , low pay , often poor housing and a shoestring training budget , all of which contribute to the recruitment crisis we have in the armed force that my right hon . Friend mention . the PAC report make clear that we be lose people fast than we can recruit they , and that be entirely unacceptable . we have to improve recruitment . the Public Accounts Committee hear that for every five people recruit to the armed service , eight be leave . that be a national security crisis . it be not just a problem for recruitment , but a profound security risk . I recognise the point that the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) make that we have have too many review , so I hesitate to use the word — if I could think of another word , I would use it — but we need a quick total review of the people issue in our armed force . it could be do quickly and all it probably entail be an amalgamation of all the work do by other , but I would like to see that with a great degree of urgency . it should look at recruitment , term and condition , family — crucially — and onward progression in all three service , so that we can with the urgency require turn around the recruitment crisis . have make the general point about the importance of investment in people , I come quickly to the major service of the armed force , and first be the Navy . it be important that we invest in all five domain , include in the grey zone and sub - threshold activity , which be so important . our principal specialism in the United Kingdom historically and now remain our sea power . it be a good thing we be move towards a maritime strategy . I recognise that be the Government ' s priority , and I say that as a representative of a land - lock county with all these soldier in it . nevertheless , we need significant investment in the Navy . we would all like to see these thing , but let we actually do it and have more submarine , more escort and more minesweeper . we need seabe warfare vessel . on that point , I call the House ' s attention to a report from Policy Exchange a month or so ago talk about western approach and the significant threat we face in these island and across Europe to undersea infrastructure . it be fundamentally our responsibility on behalf of Europe to protect that . I have mention the new model army and the New Bletchley report , and I would like to see a real commitment to a reformed and modernise Army . we have to recognise the point make by the former Chief of the Defence Staff Nick Carter when he say that the Army be the weak of the three service . that be a sad state of affair . I suppose one have to be the weak ; I be sorry it be the Army . there be big question over our ability to field a division in Europe , as promise to NATO . accord to a senior US officer , the UK can not even be call a tier 1 power . I understand that the Committees be tell by a former commander of joint force command that our Army will not be ready to fulfil its NATO commitment until the early 1930 . indeed , that be the assumption of the integrated review , so in a we be sense back to the 10 - year rule , which be not how thing should be . [ interruption . ] do I say 1930 ? you do . I think we be up to speed on that — the 2030 . the case for investment in the Army be obvious , and the good news be that it be easy , quick and cheap to refit and upscale the Army than it be the Navy , because kit be small and cheap . however , we do not just need the same Army but a big one . we need a medium - sized Army that be bespoke for the job that will be do — the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) make the right point about the sort of Army we need . the Army need , in a resonant phrase , to defend these island , but it also need to act in partnership with other service and with our ally in the west . we do not need another great new major continental army such as the one the Poles be build . we need a rapid reaction joint expeditionary force that be agile , mobile , and able to do the job that be require , in partnership with our ally . on the sphere of operation , ultimately our commitment need to reflect the threat we face . in a sense , those be classified , and I recognise the challenge that the Committees have have in identify what our capability be , and the task that Ministers set for they , because we can not always know exactly what those threat be , with defence planning assumption now classify . nevertheless , I echo a point make by the right hon . member for North Durham : I be delighted about AUKUS , which be a tremendous step forward in our international role and a great thing for british security . I be not averse to those global arrangement — they be absolutely right . I love the deployment of the Queen Elizabeth and the carrier strike group to Japan . fundamentally , however , we be , and should be , commit to the defence of the Euro - Atlantic area , and for that purpose we must restore the mass of our own armed force and Army . that mean grow our capability here at home . we need more regular , and to get back towards have 80 , 000 or 90 , 000 regular force . we must significantly grow the reserve force because 30 , 000 be not enough , even if that figure of 30 , 000 be real , which I do not believe it be . the campaign to grow our reserve be necessary not just for its own sake , but as a great exercise in communication to the public about the imperative for we all to step up and play our role in the defence of our country . there be a great deal of concern , which I think be misplace , about the attitude of the british people to fight . we have that in the 1930 , with lot of people say that the British would not fight , but of course they would , of course they do , and of course they will if they have to answer their country ' s call . that be young people in particular . they will do it with irony , and certainly with meme , but they will do it and sign up if they need to . this be not an abstraction . we have already see in the past year or two what war in our region mean . it mean inflation — imagine that tenfold if a war break out in which our country be directly involve — and cyber - attack on a terrible scale . we be now at a turning point , as so many member have say , and it be time for all of we as a country to step up . there be an opportunity and an imperative for we to strengthen our nation . it be about industrial resilience and our own food supply ; it be about our supply chain , and our steel and manufacturing capacity . there be a huge opportunity , as the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) say , in the importance of the industrial supply chain . this be a time for we all to do what be need . rise — Order . I be get concern because although I do not have a problem with intervention , some of the speech have be not 13 minute but 16 minute , and that mean we then have pressure for the Front - Bench speech to be short than we hope they to be . if colleague take intervention , I ask they to please still try to keep within the limit . another debate be due to start at 3 o ' clock , and I must get as near to that as I possibly can . I echo the positive word that have be speak already this afternoon about the report from the Public Accounts and Defence Committees , and it be timely that we get all this out into the open . in the Budget early this month , the Chancellor of the Exchequer say that defence spending " will rise to 2 . 5 % as soon as economic condition allow . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 846 . ] what indication have the Minister have from the Prime Minister and Chancellor about when economic condition might allow ? what be the condition that might allow , and when might they be meet ? this week the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , give an interview to the i newspaper , in which she describe " big nastie " face public spending . she talk about " slow politic " , where decision be make with a long - term strategic perspective at the forefront . that be especially pertinent when it come to defence capability . as we be enter a period of global uncertainty , it be concern to read in the PAC report that there be glare discrepancy around how spending be identify for single service . for example , the report highlight the way that plan spending be report . whereas the Royal Navy include all cost in its plan , create an on - paper deficit of more than £ 15 billion , the Army include only what estimate it can afford , result in a run deficit of about £ 1 . 2 billion . have the Army follow the same procedure as the Royal Navy , its deficit would soar to over £ 13 billion . such inconsistency in budget reporting be , I be sure , not a deliberate lack of transparency , but it can bring about distrust when it come to plan defence spending . the Defence Committee ' s " ready for War ? " report stress the need to replenish our much deplete munition stockpile . it highlight that there have be a " hollow out " over the past 14 year — we have hear that talk about , include from the Dispatch Boxes — but that have be bring into sharp relief by an emboldened , aggressive , nationalist russian state . if we can not co - ordinate defence spending in a clear manner , we risk weaken the perception of our defence capability . the issue of the budget deficit go far , with the Committee highlight a £ 16 . 9 billion deficit over 10 year , due in part to rise inflation . we know that defence inflation be great than other measure of inflation , partly because a lot of our defence equipment be import from overseas , particularly the United States . there be a 62 % increase in spending on the Defence Nuclear Organisation , and the report state that defence spending would need to increase to around 2 . 5 % of gdp to plug that gap . minister be entrench the uncertainty around budget planning , mean that important project risk be deprioritise . at present , the defence budget be think to be about 2 . 1 % , and some measure try to include our defence commitment to Ukraine , so that it might rise to 2 . 25 % . the MOD say that the difference between 2 . 25 % and 2 . 5 % of GDP be about £ 6 billion or £ 7 billion . there be important reason why that increase might be necessary . although we spend 2 . 1 % on defence as a whole , around 6 % of that go to fund our nuclear capability . prior to 2010 , the UK ' s strategic nuclear deterrent be keep out of Ministry of Defence spending measure and hold centrally , whereas now it be all include in the defence budget , mean that our conventional spending have see a great deal of squeeze over the last decade - plus . by fail to invest in our armed force over a sustained period , we have hear cry of operational readiness be affect , and people cry about overstretch . I recall that word from my own service about 20 year ago , when people be declare that the armed force be run hot and that they be overstretch . that be why it be essential for government to know how much they can commit their armed force . that come back to what we use to call the defence planning assumption about how many operational overseas deployment might take place simultaneously . up until 2015 , those defence planning assumption be publish , but since 2015 they have not be publish and have be very much hold behind a cloak . I see no real reason from a security perspective or from the point of view of what our adversary might think , for keep those withhold . as be point out to the Defence Committee , our adversary probably know our capability well , and they will be analyse our intention . it be arguably well to be transparent about those defence planning assumption if that mean a reduction in the call on the armed force by other Departments of Government . in recent year , we have see that a lot , with department have seek to use the armed force for military aid to the civil authority , whether for ambulance strike or to cover for the fire service . the armed force have be pull in for those role and take away from training , which be essential to their mission . transparency be very much require . when that be combine with the persistent issue of repeat cut and reduction in personnel , our armed force could be in an even more challenging place than be currently suggest . we really need to sort this out . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) refer to the recent speech by the Secretary of State for Defence about move from a post - war period to a pre - war era . I be alarmed to hear that speech . I be an advocate for the Roosevelt phrase , " speak softly and carry a big stick " . in talk about move from post - war to pre - war , I feel that he be do quite the reverse : invest no new money in defence while speak with a rather loud mouth . it strike I that the Defence Secretary be not do enough to advocate for spend in private , because he be do it in public through leak letter to the Chancellor , as report in the Daily Telegraph . his predecessor , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , do the honourable and decent thing by step away from his Cabinet role when he could no long tolerate Cabinet collective responsibility in relation to defence spending . do the hon . Member agree that the strategy the Defence Secretary be employ have nothing to do with defence but be possibly to do with a future bid to become leader of the conservative party ? I grateful to the right hon . member . while I will not speculate on the Defence Secretary ' s intention , I certainly think that have have the effect of put he out of step with the Chancellor and the Prime Minister such that he be no long engage in collective responsibility . it seem to I that by talk up increase in the defence budget in cash term rather than real term , the Government be hide behind recent high inflation . I will give the House a specific example . follow the publication of the PAC report on 8 March , the Prime Minister ' s spokesperson , who be ask to respond to that report , reply : " we be ensure that we have the large defence budget in history " . that be so much spin as to be like a vortex — it be way off to suggest that . as we hear from the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , during the cold war , defence spending be north of 6 % of GDP . I be not advocate for defence spending to return to anything like those level , because I recognise that we be deal then with an eastern Europe in the grip of Russia and very much surround by and part of the Warsaw pact , with all its contribution assist the Warsaw pact inventory , whereas now our spending be very much contribute to NATO ' s defence of Europe and the deterrence of Moscow . I would understand the phrase " as soon as economic condition allow " if we be talk about an absolute cost — for example , the cost of a frigate or a platform , with a price tag — but we be not ; we be talk about a relative cost . the Government need to set out what those economic condition be . finally , I turn to land . as we have hear rehearse in the House many time , the Army be be reduce from 82 , 500 to 73 , 000 soldier . early , Mr Deputy Speaker talk about the considerable expertise in this place , but the great defence experience be probably in the other place . those who rise to the top of their profession in the armed force now speak with the great wisdom on defence . I would therefore like to quote from some of they , start with three former Chiefs of the General Staff . in January , Lord Richard Dannatt say : " the bottom line be number do matter … it be a fact that at 73 , 000 the British Army have never be small " . in March 2021 , Lord David Richards say that " mass still matter " . in May 2022 , General Sir Nick Carter say that " in the order of 80 , 000 " soldier be require to ensure that the UK could field a full division as part of a combine NATO force . although the current Chief of the General Staff be somewhat restrict in what he can say while in post , in June 2022 he say that the UK be face a " 1937 moment " , and that " it would be perverse if the cgs be advocate reduce the size of the Army as a land war rage in Europe " . I firmly advocate for the Army to be restore to that 83 , 000 figure . when will those economic condition be meet so that we might see 2 . 5 % spend on defence ? I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) for lead the debate with his report . on the first Thursday back in January 2022 , six week before Russia far invade Ukraine , many hon . member currently in the Chamber be here for a debate about the need to increase defence spending . there be an argument about whether we be in a cold war scenario , which come back to the same thing : it be all very well talk about increase spending , but where do the threat lie ? the mea culpa from my point of view be that , right up to 22 February 2022 , I be say that I do not believe Putin be go to invade Ukraine . I think he be test the border and see where the strength be . that day , I learn the important lesson that politician often use the word " think " when they should be use " hope " . much of the debate be base around what we want to see happen and what we hope will happen . we may say , " I think perhaps we don ' t need to expand the military as much as that . perhaps the money be well off be spend elsewhere . be we really go to go nuclear ? be he really go to do that ? " we talk about development in the High North and maritime . perhaps we need more Navy , because that will become a much more critical area in our security , our trade and our defence , but we hear the same thing : it be highly unlikely that there will be a surface warfare battle . well , nobody think there would be a tank battle in Europe . since the second world war , nobody think there would be an armoured vehicle and troop battle with trench warfare in Europe again , but that have happen . I have be ask recently , " be we go to have world war three ? " it be an interesting question . how do we define world war three in the 21st century ? will it be the nuclear armageddon that people think ? I do not believe that — I will come back to that . will it be several instance of war and armed conflict in several area that affect our country directly ? yes , and I believe that be where the world be move to , especially when we look at the supply chain around the world . that affect not just this country , and it will lead to other investment have to be make . there be a famine take place in Sudan because of what be happen in the Red sea , where there be a reduction in supply get through . when these event take place , they have consequence in many area of the world . we can talk about whether there be a world war and whether we will be involve , but we be — we be in the Red sea and we be give support to Ukraine and other area , which be build up . we should not look at Ukraine as an individual thing that Putin be talk about and that ridiculous interview he do with Tucker Carlson in which he say , " well , I haven ' t get any intention to invade anywhere else . " he literally write it down in July 2021 . it take about half an hour to read , and he lay it out line by line — " not only do we need to rebuild the Russian Empire , but we need to reunite the historic Russian - speak people " . we hear all of this in another book 100 year early , and we all know where that lead , so we all know the consequence of we not prepare for it . something about NATO have be forget and overlook . everybody talk about article 5 — that an attack on one be an attack on another , and we come to the rescue — but everybody forget article 3 , which say that member must be able to defend their border first and foremost . there be only 14 article in the actually very well - write Washington treaty , and article 3 make it clear that member have to be able to defend their border and that article 5 be a reinforcement that can take up to three week to arrive . do we believe that if Putin invade the baltic state , that be where the effect on NATO will be ? that would be tactically daft of Putin . it be more likely , if he decide to invade NATO territory , that he will want to tie all the NATO ally up to start with . there be good news and bad news . there be good news in what China have say to Putin because of their trade with India , South America and southern Africa . the Chinese especially have make it crystal clear that if Putin be even to demonstrate his ability to use a nuclear weapon — say , in the middle of the Black sea — they would say , " that ' s it , we ' re go ; we be not deal with you . " that have probably take the nuclear weapon issue off the table , especially with strategic nuclear weapon . by the way , I do not want the House to get excited and think I be say that we do not need to renew Trident , because there be still plenty of place around the world that be push that territory . as we always come back to , Trident be a deterrent weapon ; it be not a weapon to be use . if it be to be launch , quite frankly we would not be argue about it anyway . this do mean that we be in a far weak position if nuclear be off the table , because we know , and Putin know — he be do it right now — that he can outproduce we in shell , tank and people . Russia be pay € 2 , 000 a month to people come in from the far - fling area of the country . People from some of these place do not earn that in a year . they have no shortage of personnel or cash . therefore , we have to start be honest with our question . do we need to build more capital equipment ? do we need more personnel ? yes , we do need more capital equipment , and we be go down that route , but we also need the revenue budget to run that . to follow the fiscal rule and say " look how much money we be put into defence " be great , but it have to be capital , because they have not give the revenue . it be a case of : " let ' s line up all our shiny ship , but we can ' t fuel they , maintain they or crew they . " it be the same in the Army and the Air Force . there must be a fundamental change at the Treasury in how the money be spend . as the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) say , let we have some honesty in this Chamber . we can sit here and say , " we need to go to 2 . 5 % or 3 % , or maybe 4 % or 5 % . " what Government and which politician will stand up in this House and say , " that 3 % reduction in GDP since the end of the cold war have go into the health service and the Department for Work and Pensions , so we will cut the health service and DWP by 3 % to invest in defence " ? who will stand up here and say that ? who will put that in their manifesto ? let we not pretend that that will happen , but the money do need to be spend more efficiently . my hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement have do an excellent job with the integrate procurement model , which talk about thing that he have work on for a long time , I believe — for example , spiral development . we be very fond of talk about where we be in the 1920 and 1930 , but I want to take we back even far , to the 1910 , when the dreadnought model be bring out . HMS Dreadnought be the most incredible ship ever build in term of firepower , but it hit the reset button by make every other ship irrelevant . it could sink all of they , so there be an arm race . within eight year , HMS Dreadnought be useless . HMS Iron Duke , which be still a dreadnought class , be a totally different ship , but it have be part of the design process as it go on . Bear in mind that we be still only produce four Dreadnought battleship a year when we be chuck all our effort in lead up to 1914 and beyond . I recently speak at a dinner , and a young person in their early 20 ask I , " what do you think about this comment from General Sanders about conscription ? because there ' s no way I would be conscript to go and fight for this country . why should I bother ? I be not go out to get kill . it ' s not worth it . you spend all this money and waste money there . what be you offer I ? it ' s not worth it . " I say , " well the problem be that you be look at this in the society you live in today . if you be go to get conscript , it be because our city will lay in rubble . you only have to look at Kyiv . forget want to sit at home and watch Netflix or play Xbox or do whatever you want , there be no electricity . there ' s no water . there ' s no gas or heating . there be starvation . " that be happen in Europe today . how do one stop that happen ? the word be deterrent . I have never meet senior military personnel who be not at heart pacifist . they understand what warfare mean . they understand the death and destruction that it bring and the decade it take to recover . they do not want to go to war . I have never meet anybody in the military who want to go to war . this all take investment . the honest fact that we be not go to cut health service or the DWP — some of our big spending budget — and spend the money on defence mean that we have to work with what we have . yes , we can grow the economy and take more tax revenue . we can do all that , but that have not really happen in the 21st century . the 21st century have roughly be 50 / 50 between the Government and the opposition . even when the economy have grow , it have be around the margin . there have to be an honest conversation . the procurement strategy my hon . friend the Minister have produce be the right way forward . we be aware of the cost . I will say one more thing , almost directly contradict myself . the war in Ukraine have shatter its economy . forget the spending to fight the war ; the loss in gdp of be able run an economy and export when at war be significantly big than an increase of 2 % or 3 % . be under no illusion : if Putin want to invade NATO territory , it will not be tank roll over the line up in the Baltics or maybe in east Poland , and we will have to go out there ; it will be a full - scale NATO attack , and we will have to work out what we do . the good way we can stop that be to make sure we have the deterrent . our nuclear deterrent have always be valuable because they have no idea when or where we would strike back from . that have make it a useless weapon to use , but we have to have that weapon . if we say that be cancel out , because of the attitude of China and russian ally towards Russia be it to use one , then we have to accept that our conventional weapon be not go to counterbalance Russia and what be happen . nobody in this Chamber , in the military , at the MOD or in Europe , and probably anywhere in the western world , want to go to war and see death and destruction on the scale we be see in too many area of the world . we see famine and humanitarian crisis take place . yes , we be go to have to spend more money , but we need to spend it more efficiently , and we need to make sure that when the increase come they will be use effectively . we need to remember that this be an investment so that we do not have to use the deterrent . if we do not have it , we will have to end up use something we do not actually have . on that surreal note , let I quote Rudyard Kipling : " we don ' t want to fight , but by jingo if we do , we ' ve get the ship , we ' ve get the man , we ' ve get the money too ! " there be plenty of jingo , but the ship , the man and the money be more difficult to find . I genuinely hope that some of the fantasy talk in this debate be widely see by the general public . it be a Gilbert and Sullivan performance as member first concede that our weakness be such that we have to conceal the extent of they in the report — that be what the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) say in an intervention . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not . I be mindful of Madam Deputy Speaker ' s injunction that she be fast run out of time , and I do not intend to take my whole 13 minute . the right hon . member should not worry — I will make sure that people see his performance . he say that we need to conceal the extent of our weakness , then he adumbrate our weakness . if that be not our total weakness — if there be weakness that he conceal from that list — I ask myself , why on earth be these people pirouette in this Parliament about which enemy they be go fight , and in which theatre of war ? on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will keep this brief . for the record , the gentleman have traduce I . he have say directly the opposite of what I actually say , as Hansard will show . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that point of order , which he have use to make his point . let we return to George Galloway . pomposity , but not a point of order . the right hon . Gentleman say that we be careful to conceal some of our weakness , and then he adumbrate those weakness . if there be more that he conceal , we be in very big trouble . my point be this : we haven ' t the man , we haven ' t the ship and we haven ' t the money , so why be we pick enemy ? I have lose count , in the course of the debate , of the number that we be either already fight or may have to get ready to fight . that be the absurd " Alice in Wonderland " nature of this debate . we can not retain even the low number of people we recruit . why ? we ought to know why : the lion do not much like the look of the donkey who lead they into war after war , which they later disown and admit should never have be fight . you know to what I refer , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have a debate at the Oxford Union ; the then Defence Secretary run away and do not turn up . I have to deal with his subordinate , but I make the point there . I be a boy soldier : Royal Artillery Battery 2 , Army Cadet Force . I train with the Royal Marines for week in Poole , in Dorset . I be in no sense a pacifist . I want to defend our country . I want our soldier to be properly pay , properly house , properly clothe , properly train and properly armed . I have pick up Tommy Atkins , stricken with addiction , from Piccadilly Gardens in Manchester , just out of Strangeways , addict to Spice and abandon by the politician who gayly send he off to one needless , pointless , fruitless war after another . Don ' t come here and say you ' re stand up for Tommy Atkins . the donkey who send he to war that even the donkey now disavow be the reason that people do not join our armed force . they do not trust those people over there not to send they to another Iraq or Afghanistan , and they be right not to trust they . the truth be that our country be in very real danger of fall into the same trap as Mussolini : go around the world , threaten people with Germany ' s army . our politician go around the world threaten people with America ' s army , but there be a big change come , and they do not like it on either side of the aisle . President Trump be come back in November , and he do not much fancy their NATO . he do not intend to send american soldier to die for Kupiansk or for the Zelensky regime in Kyiv . he have no intention whatever of continue its war in Ukraine . I hear a senior Member of the House say , " if America withdraw from NATO , we will have to increase our contribution to 5 % , 6 % or maybe 7 % of gdp . " do these people seriously imagine that they will continue in NATO without the United States of America ? what kind of NATO would it be — it really would be Gilbert and Sullivan — unless we devote not £ 50 billion of our public treasure but hundred of billion on defence ? have any of these people see the state of the public realm in Britain ? have they see the state of the national health service ? have they see the state of our street , public building and public transport ? have they see the wage packet earn in this country ? have they see pensioner poverty and fuel poverty in action ? have they meet people who have to choose between eating and heating ? these fool want to spend not £ 50 billion but hundred of billion on weapon of war , which we will fight with an Army that could fit into Villa Park — 70 , 000 soldier can fit into a single football stadium . for some time , I be the Member of Parliament for a naval shipbuilding yard , Yarrow ' s on the Clyde — producer of excellence . I wrestle — not physically — with our late and lamented friend Alan Clark when he be the Procurement Minister , and I win . I get all five of the Type 23 procure at that time . I want we to have a good Navy , and a good Army , but not so we can sail it to bombard the native in the Red sea or send a Gilbert and Sullivan squadron to the South China sea , like a peashooter fire at an elephant — or a whale in the case in the chinese navy . I do not want we to send our 70 , 000 soldier and our aircraft carrier that break down and have to be glue together , or our destroyer that crash into each other in the Solent . I do not want we to pretend that we be a Rudyard Kipling - era imperial power . that be the key problem . some of these people still think that we be in the 19th century and can send gunboat up the Yangtze and not have they sink , and that the native in Yemen be the native we use to push around for a century or more . the empire strike back , and the empire be big than we now . we own India ; now the Indians own we . shall I take that metaphor far ? there be an idea that those in this little country of our — this dear green place , with all its problem and enfeeblement cause by our economic decline and the rapid and massive economic advance of other — be still in a position to stand in this Parliament make dispensation to this battleground or that , or that we can still slice our diminish national wealth in a way that allow we to pretend to be an imperial power . I have time only for one last point . I be startle by the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , when she tell we that £ 2 billion of our defence budget be go on foreign exchange cost , mean that not only be we spend 50 billion of british taxpayer ' pound , but that we be spend it in foreign country . we be allow foreign company and yard to build our defence infrastructure in a way , as the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) point out , that France would never dream of do . whatever we be go to spend , spend it in Britain , spend it in british yard , spend it in british factory . you ' ll save £ 2 billion in foreign exchange cost at the very least . I genuinely will not take 13 minute for my contribution , Madam Deputy Speaker . our armed force give it their all every single day for our protection . their level of commitment and courage be , sadly , not match by this Government . bad , as our Defence Committee report and the report from the Public Accounts Committee chair by my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) show , the Government have preside over reduction in personnel , depletion of kit and delay in new capability . when it come to the big threat of all , war , there be not a single service that be fully ready . this do not happen overnight . this be a culmination of , to use the word of the former Defence Secretary , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , the " hollow out " of our force over the last 14 year . the new Defence Secretary rightly say that we be in a pre - war world . but to acknowledge that and then do nothing about it be negligent . the world be in turmoil : war in Ukraine , conflict in the middle east , fear of conflict in the Indo - Pacific , an aggressive Russia and an unpredictable China , as well as our armed force respond to humanitarian mission and maca — military aid to the civil authority — request , as they do throughout the pandemic . this all make a pre - war foot all the more urgent . this be not an exhaustive list , but when it come to our Royal Navy there be delay to the Type 26 frigate , issue with the availability of ssn , delay to Dreadnought and an over - reliance on RFA Fort Victoria . our Royal Air Force have a shortfall in fix - wing transport aircraft number , insufficient number of maritime patrol aircraft and Wedgetail airborne early warning system , a lack of air - to - air refuelling , and a lack of ground - base air defence system or an anti - ballistic missile capability . our Army lack infantry fighting vehicle , multiple launch rocket system , Challenger tank and armoured fighting vehicle . we have rightly commit ammunition to Ukraine , but the £ 1 . 95 billion announce to replenish stockpile be not ringfence . we have hear that the Ministry of Defence be potentially use it to help offset funding shortfall , instead of use it to restore our warfighting ability . our lack of industrial capacity be also cause problem with replenishment in particular , as many company , both at prime and sub - prime level , be face challenge in scale up . a failure to address supply chain issue represent a significant risk to production . as the PAC report from my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch on the MOD ' s equipment plan find , there be no credible government plan to deliver the desire military capability . as for our personnel , the Haythornthwaite review in 2022 find a net outflow of 4 , 660 per year from our armed force . there be significant pinch point in cyber , digital and AI skill . those who serve in our force be exceptional people , but they be constantly be ask to do more with less . the result have be significantly low morale , with recruitment and retention issue across our service and across the reserve . our Defence Committee report note : " either the Ministry of Defence must be fully fund to engage in operation whilst also develop warfighting readiness ; or the Government must reduce the operational burden on the Armed Forces . " these be difficult decision to make , but it be obvious that the Government be not go to make they as they be limp towards electoral oblivion . frustratingly , the Government hinder our inquiry considerably by not share with we the information they hold on readiness — information that use to be available . worse still , they be unable to explain to we why this information have become classified . bear in mind that our ally and country at great risk than we share theirs , it be fair to conclude that the reason the information be not be share be because readiness level be far bad than even we conclude in our report . our conclusion , bluntly speak , be that we be not ready for war . the recent Budget see no increase for defence , and that be after the cut refer to by my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . just this week , ex - defence and security chief say we must prepare genuinely for war . but we do not have the personnel or the kit to be ready for war . far bad than that , we do not have the right government in place to be ready for it either . before I call the SNP Front - Bench spokesperson , let I just say that the Front - Bench contribution in this debate be long than normal , but we will be able to finish the debate by 3 o ' clock as I have indicate . the SNP will have 10 minute , the opposition 15 minute and the Government 15 minute . well , this be a debate that certainly go in direction I never think it would go . it be always a privilege to follow the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , who may be in a different party but be a very good friend on the Defence Committee . I commend the report from the Committee , of which I be once again a member . there be a few thing we do not agree on , but on the vast majority of issue we do agree . that bring I back to the old scottish nation ' s motto , which be " in Defens " . I be very much akin to that . I also share some of the issue raise by the hon . member for Rochdale ( George Galloway ) on how we do not push ourselves into conflict that be unnecessary . I may come back to that in a few moment . I want to come back to the point make by the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) on background and family . I have say umpteen time in the Chamber that my brother serve in Iraq and have two term in Afghanistan as a reservist . I will come back to the specific point on people in the armed force later . the right hon . Gentleman talk about his dad . my dad be 99 . I be lucky my dad be still here . he survive the bad aerial bombardment these island have ever see . it be only after about 75 year that the Government recognise that it be the bad aerial bombardment the UK have see during the second world war . last Wednesday , I be able to attend , as I try to every year , the 83rd commemoration of the Clydebank Blitz , which take place on 13 and 14 March 1941 . I also stand at one of the mass grave in Clydebank on Saturday to lay a wreath on behalf of my constituent . I do so with privilege and in honour of our family of survivor . I want to pick up on three point relate to readiness in term of people , partnership and position , and how they link critically to the word resilience , which I think I hear some member mention . the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and for Warley ( John Spellar ) be probably sick to death of I talk over several year about resilience , but it be inextricably link to what readiness should be all about . let I talk about people first and how resilient be the armed force . it be a pity that the hon . member for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) can not be here today — I do tell she that I would mention she today — because she chair a sub - committee on woman in the armed force , which expose some of the most profoundly difficult question and scrutiny in Parliament about recruitment and retention that the armed force have ever have to face . I hate the term " ordinary rank " . what do " ordinary " mean — people on the frontline who have to go over the ditch ? there be nothing ordinary about that . as I say early , my brother do it as a reservist , but the report expose dreadful question about woman and member of black and ethnic minority community . why be we not retain or even recruit they ? why , moreover , be young man not want to join up ? this return I to the issue of term and condition , which I have often talk about . I remember argue with a former Chair of the Defence Committee — he be not here , but I see that the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) have turn up — who be also a former Minister . he have say that member of the armed force be not employee or worker . that may be the case in law , but they still deliver a service . if we want to retain people , it be critically important that we copy what so many of our NATO ally do in recognise the value and worth of member of the force — whether in the Royal Navy , the Army or even the Royal Air Force — and recognise their right , one of which be the right to representation . my party and I have always say that we believe the armed force require a representative body like the Police Federation . the kingdom of Denmark , for instance , which pay the blood price in Iraq and Afghanistan , have a very robust armed force representative body . the problem there be not about recruitment , but about how in God ' s name you persuade people to leave the armed force in Denmark , because it be such a good — wait for it — employer . they be still willing to go over the ditch and take up the cudgel on behalf of their country . that bring we to the question of how we should deal with people here in the UK who may be over - reliant on charitable organisation , which , of course , be very well - mean and commit . I agree with the point that the hon . Gentleman be make , but I think that there must be a real , radical revolution in the way in which the armed force not only recruit but employ people . the number of 18 - year - old be fall . we be go to need more flexible employment model enable people to leave , come back in , have career break and so forth . unless we do that , we will not be able to persuade they to join our armed force . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman , and I be glad that his party have join mine — I think ; I be not sure whether this be still a labour manifesto commitment — in recommend the introduction of an armed force representative body . however , a critical issue be how the skill that already exist can be utilise . I can not believe that I be go to use the word " emulate " when speak of the United States , but that flexibility be emulate by the United States and also by many of our other NATO ally . when it come to readiness and have people on the frontline in the physical armed force , I be not go to play the number game , because this be a political and philosophical issue . it be about how we retain and recruit . I think that fundamental right for member of the armed force should be enshrine in law . they should not need to go to those very well - mean charitable organisation to receive assistance with housing , with their mental health , and even with their physical health . member of the danish armed force who have suffer an injury do not go to a special unit ; they go to a danish national hospital like every other danish citizen , because there they will benefit from the delivery of a robust public service . that , in turn , bring I to the way in which the armed force and , critically , the Army in particular have be challenge during the pandemic . some former member of the Defence Committee who be not present today keep go on about the need for the Army to step up to the plate in deal with resilience . the right hon . member for North Durham have hear I talk about resilience in Committee . it be not , in my view , the role of the Army to pick up civilian action . during the pandemic , the Army in England and Wales have to do that in respect of the Nightingale hospital , not just in term of logistic and design but in term of the actual physical infrastructure . why be that ? it be because most part of the NHS procurement process to build the Nightingale hospital have be privatise year ago . we have take a very physical state ownership of that civil structure of resilience and readiness out of the hand of the Government and the NHS and give it to private contractor , who have make billion on the back of it . let I give a scottish example , the Louisa Jordan Hospital . the Army step up to the plate in help with the logistic , but they be not require to build the internal structure of the Louisa Jordan . Most of it be in the scottish conference centre . that internal structure be build through NHS Scotland procurement , because it be fit for purpose and ready to play its part . when we be talk about people , we should bear in mind that readiness be not just about member of the armed force ; it be also about the large civilian infrastructure . the right hon . member for Warley be not present now , but he and I — along with , I think , the right hon . member for New Forest East — travel to Washington some year ago with the Defence Committee . part of our purpose be to understand where our infrastructure be . how , for example , do we transfer , through partnership between state — critically , within the continent of Europe — a division , or tank , across bridge and road which , since the end of the cold war , be no long equal in term of weight or infrastructure ? how difficult be it to move a tank from a port to , say , technically , the eastern front if that be require ? partnership of that kind have be allow to disappear in the post - cold war era . however , there be other important partnership , such as the United Nations with its peacekeeping role . it be disappointing that not only the United Kingdom but other country have have to pull out of Mali , at the instigation of the Malian Government , in the last couple of year . that peacekeeping role be a crucial part of the infrastructure of maintain international order ground in the rule - base system . I be also disappoint by the Government ' s decision to postpone , or put into abeyance , their investment and funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency in Palestine on the basis of a very small amount of information , or accusation , from the Government of the state of Israel in respect of the conflict in Gaza . I hope that the Government recognise the value and worth of that partnership in try to quell some of the many big problem that be face in that part of the world . I think I have have my 10 minute , but let I end by say a little about the European Union in relation to partnership and position . I be glad to hear that the official Opposition may now be consider an improved relationship with the EU . we in the Scottish National party believe it be important to have a mutual defence agreement with the EU . as for the question of position , I be a Euro - Atlanticist , and I think it important for we to reposition ourselves , away from the issue of the Indo - Pacific . I agree with the hon . member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) about the nuclear proposition . I think that the hon . member for Rochdale and I be the only Members present who oppose nuclear weapon , but I think there be general agreement on the need to take the deterrent into another budget head so that we have a full understanding of what that two - point - whatever percentage of GDP be . I hope that the Government will be able to respond to that in the debate today . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I start by knock a glass of water over when I come into the Chamber , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I have finish by do so . I thank all member for their contribution today , but I also thank the armed force , as we all should , for everything that they do to keep we safe . our UK armed force be essential not just to the defence of our nation but to the member of our NATO alliance , and also to our UK role in uphold international law . we respect , as the world do , the professionalism with which they do their job . I welcome the further AUKUS agreement that that be be sign this week between Australia , the United Kingdom and the United States . this be our most important strategic defence alliance outside NATO . it be so much more than a big submarine building programme . it demand UK national endeavour and UK national leadership , and it have the complete support of the Labour party . President Putin claim 88 % of all the vote in last week ' s russian poll . it be a total sham of an election , but a serious moment for UK defence . over the next decade , we will face Putin and an alliance of aggression from autocrat who have contempt for international law , and who squander freely the life of their own people . the Chair of the Defence Committee , the right hon . member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , open the debate by say that we should start where all defence debate should start — with the threat that we face . the threat that we face will only increase , which be why we need a new era for defence , why these report be so important , and why this debate be so important . Madam Deputy Speaker , before you take the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker say of this debate that it promise to be one of the well informed on all side , and he be right . the right hon . member for Horsham bring his experience not just as a former Minister , but as the Chair of the Defence Committee . I pay tribute to he , because we now agree that it be right to move away from competition by default and to see the defence sector as a " critical strategic asset " , as he call it , which be a reflection of the work that he have do . my right hon . friend the Member for Warley ( John Spellar ) ask the right question : what be we do to create new industrial capacity in the UK and in collaboration with close ally ? my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) say that she have see the argument and excuse , yet no efficiency arrive . that be capture not just in her report , which be the subject of this debate , but in other report that her Public Accounts Committee have undertake into defence procurement since 2019 , and in nine National Audit Office report look at the same problem . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) make a very moving speech about his father ' s D - day experience . I particularly enjoy the emotive part of his speech , where he get stick into the Government and the MOD . the hon . member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) be quite right to say that we be now in a moment of existential risk , because we be not ready to fight the war that we may face . it be a theme that pick up by the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , who say that we should be look at not just our operational readiness , which be the subject of the Defence Committee ' s report , but our strategic readiness . part of that be about take responsibility as a nation to develop great resilience and , interestingly , great talent , include in our political party and in this House . my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) make a very strong argument for defence plan that be base on reality and on honesty about the UK ' s role in the world , and especially the priority that we must give to our role in NATO . he , too , say that we must see defence investment direct first to benefit the UK ' s economy . the right hon . member for Elmet and Rothwell ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) have be a Defence Minister too , and he lead the NATO parliamentary delegation from this country . he be right to remind we that for NATO member nation , article 3 , on the obligation to defend their own country , be as important and fundamental as article 5 , on the obligation to defend each other . my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) speak in some detail about the equipment shortfall that the Defence Committee ' s report lay out , and rightly spell out the concern that the MOD be cover up the scale of the problem by not provide information to the public or Parliament . that be echo by the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) , who say that operational planning assumption , which be publish up until 2015 , be no long publish . the hon . member for Rochdale ( George Galloway ) be right to talk about the concealment of truth about the state of our armed force , but in fairness to the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford , that be exactly what the Defence Committee — he play a leading part in produce its report — be argue the Government be not do . defend our people and our ally be not " Alice in Wonderland " or Gilbert and Sullivan ; it be what people have a right to expect of their Government and Parliament . finally , we hear from the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) , who speak for the SNP and have great experience on defence . I follow his three p ' s , and I be particularly strike by his discussion of people . there be a requirement to do well in recruit and retain member of the armed force . he argue that it be not just about number and that our force must well reflect the diversity of the people they serve to protect . I be very grateful to the right hon . member for make those point , but I would push he on the issue of an armed force representative body . be it something that he and his party remain committed to ? no , it be not . we have a much well solution , which be to legislate for an independent armed force commissioner , like there be in Germany . they will be a voice for armed force personnel and the family who support they , and will report to Parliament , not Ministers . in that way , we can reinforce the accountability of our military to this House and the public , as well as make it more responsive to those who serve . I will come to some point on that , if I may . I pay tribute to all contributor to this debate , particularly those who be member of the two Committees on whose report it be base . as they know , there be deep and long - run problem across defence , but I want to marshal my remark into three main area of finding in both report : first , the hollowing out and underfunding of our armed force ; secondly , defence mismanagement and waste ; and thirdly , the increase lack of openness that we have see recently from the Ministry of Defence . on hollow out and underfunding , my hon . friend the Member for South Shields remind we that it be the last Defence Secretary , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , who tell this House last January that the armed force have be " hollow out and underfunde " over the last 14 year . these report reinforce that sober assessment of our UK military power and readiness . the Defence Committee find that there be " capability shortfall and stockpile shortage " across the force , that resilience have be undermine by reduction , and that there be a " crisis in the recruitment and retention of both Regulars and Reserves " . our armed force be " lose personnel fast than they can recruit they . " the hollow out and underfunding be get bad , not well . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? the Minister can have his say later . the Defence Committee report say that capability gap be grow , reliance on ally be increase , and we now have the large ever deficit in the MOD ' s equipment plan , at £ 16 . 9 billion . the PAC conclude that there be an " unmistakable deterioration " in the MOD ' s financial position . like the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford , I have bring along the Red Book . I have study table 2 . 1 and 2 . 2 . the Treasury and the House of Commons Library confirm a reduction in defence budget , which will be cut by £ 2 . 5 billion in cash term for the next financial year . these be the budget baseline figure on which defence can plan , procure , deploy and develop capability — not the one - off add - ons for specific purpose , such as nuclear or Ukraine , which be the figure that Ministers too often use to inflate the figure on total spending and disguise the real budget . this be where the country be leave after 14 year of conservative failure on defence , and the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford say that this be wholly unworthy of a Conservative Government . I say it be wholly unworthy of a british Government . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . the Minister have 15 minute in which to make his point . [ interruption . ] okay , I will give way . I be very grateful to the right hon . Gentleman . I have a specific question : do he support our target of 2 . 5 % ? as have be point out in this debate , 2 . 5 % be an aspiration for when economic circumstance allow — there be no timetable , no plan and no credibility . the last time this country spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence be in 2010 , under a Labour Government . I turn to mismanagement and waste . my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch say that mismanagement and waste run widely across defence . the PAC report find that only two of the 46 MOD equipment programme be rate as " highly likely " to be deliver on time , on budget and on quality . many defence procurement programme be be delay and be over budget . minister be fail british taxpayer and british troop but , most concern of all , they have no plan to fix this . my hon . Friend say that one of our major concern be that the MOD be put off decision — serious threat , serious problem and a serious lack of action from the Government to fix they . the third area I want to mention be transparency . civilian authority over our UK military involve accountability to elect civilian Ministers and elect member of this House . reduce MOD transparency be a theme that run through both report . the Defence Committee say it be " unacceptable " and the PAC say the MOD have refuse even to publish a full equipment plan this year — that be the Minister ' s responsibility — despite " undertake the same depth of financial analysis as in previous year . " that should worry all member , and it have be a grow concern of mine for some month . whether it be Royal Navy ship ' day at sea or maca agreement strike with other Departments , datum that have previously be publish and release to I be now be withhold . instead of respond to my question , Ministers be now say , " we will write to you instead . " I be currently await 26 letter , some of they date back as far as December . there be , of course , legitimate security reason why some information can not be release , but there be also obvious political reason why a Government near an election would not want some of this information to be make public . the Defence Committee express an important and clear warning in its report . threat be increase , just as concern be increase about the state of our armed force not just from the member of these Committees and from member on both side of the House but from Ministers , too . the Minister for Security , the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the right hon . member for Berwick - upon - Tweed ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) , and even the Defence Secretary be publicly challenge their own Government ' s defence policy in the press . the Defence Secretary be make argument in the Daily Mail that he fail to win with the Chancellor . I feel for the Minister for Defence Procurement , who be almost the last man stand by the Government ' s defence policy . labour will always do what be require to defend the country . if we win the confidence of the british people at the next election , our pledge be that Britain will be well defend under Labour . first , we will reinforce the protection of the UK homeland . secondly , we will ensure that our NATO obligation be meet in full . thirdly , we will make our ally our strategic strength . fourthly , we will renew the nation ' s moral contract with those who serve . and fifthly , we will drive deep reform of defence , and we will direct defence investment first to british job and british business . this be how Labour will make our country secure at home and strong abroad . we will consult across the House in do so because we want our plan to be not just labour ' s plan but Britian ' s plan to be well defend in future . I be grateful to all hon . and right hon . member for their contribution , and I thank all those on the Defence Committee and the Public Accounts Committee for their thorough report on armed force readiness , defence equipment and inventory management . I have a lot of time for the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , but I think he say that our armed force be a gnat on the backside of an elephant . no , I do not . if the Minister have actually listen , what I say be that our contribution in the event of a crisis in the South China sea would be a gnat on the backside of an elephant . that be very different from what the Minister say . I be grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s clarification . either way , I think we can all agree that it be important that we understand the extent to which our armed force be ready and be out there serve the country as we speak . our continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent be enter its sixth decade of service , and our armed force have help we to become Ukraine ' s most front - footed ally . we have train more than 60 , 000 ukrainian military personnel since 2014 , and we be deliver more than £ 7 billion of military aid to Ukraine within our overall aid package worth almost £ 12 billion . that support be unwavering , with the recent announcement of our late £ 2 . 5 billion package of military support for Ukraine be a £ 200 million uplift on the previous two year . beyond our support for Ukraine , our armed force be participate in every single NATO mission . I be grateful to the Minister for allow I to intervene . I do not apply to speak in this debate because I could not be sure that I would be here at the end . will he impress upon the House how our aid to Ukraine be vital because , if Ukraine successfully thwart Russia , all those dread scenario about an attack on NATO will not happen ? similarly , although President Trump be a worry , it be at least a relief that he have begin to say that , provide Europe do its bit , he will continue with America ' s support for NATO , should he be elect . my right hon . friend make an excellent point . the hon . member for Rochdale ( George Galloway ) accuse we of imperialism in how we deploy our armed force , but the whole purpose of our support be precisely to help Ukraine resist the imperialism of the Kremlin that he have shamefully support while condemn what he call the " Zelensky regime " . we hear he say it , and it be absolutely shameful . will the Minister give way ? the hon . Gentleman do not give way to anyone so , if he will forgive I , I will continue . my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) make an excellent point that we have hear a change of tone from Donald Trump in recent day . the Minister say it be important to understand how ready our force be , so can he tell we why key information on readiness be no long publish and why none of it be share with our Committee ? I be happy to engage with the Committee , as I do during the week on artificial intelligence . there will always be a balance to be strike between what we can share and where we have to recognise the sensitivity of defence . from the High North to the Mediterranean , we be deploy 20 , 000 service personnel from our Navy , Army and Air Force on the NATO exercise Steadfast Defender , which be one of the alliance ' s large ever train exercise . it be a valuable opportunity to strengthen interoperability between we and our ally . I be happy to report that , as the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) and for Warley ( John Spellar ) say , overnight we have have confirmation that a new defence and security co - operation agreement have be sign with Australia , which will make it easy for our armed force to operate together in each other ' s country . it will also help facilitate UK submarine crew to visit Australia as part of AUKUS . a large number of point have be make in this debate , and I will try to take as many as I can . the Chair of the Defence Committee , the right hon . member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , and several other , particularly the right hon . member for Warley , talk about the importance of industrial resilience , and I totally agree . the right hon . member for Warley make an important point about finance . we must not forget the private sector ' s role in invest in defence . we have see commentary on environmental , social and governance , on which he want to see cross - Government work . I be pleased to confirm that , with my Treasury colleague , we hold a meeting at Rothschild ' s in the City to see what more we can do , and I be confident that we will be say more on this important point about how we make the case for invest in defence as a way of invest in peace . on ESG , there have be many reference to the second world way today . be it worth remind the House and the country that , if we have not have a defence industry building Spitfires and Hurricanes in 1940 , this debate would not be take place ? in fact , this place would no long exist . my right hon . friend make an excellent point . it show why I want to see we support our sovereign capability , because where the Spitfire be there in the 1930 , we hope that the global combat air programme will be there in the 2030 . will the Minister allow a brief intervention ? as my right hon . friend have already intervene , I hope he will allow I to make some progress and refer to comment from colleague . obviously , there have be particular debate about spending . the shadow Secretary of State be unable to answer whether Labour would match the figure of 2 . 5 % , but a number of my colleague want we to go far and fast . this point be put well by the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) . the Chair of the Defence Committee and other have suggest that we should look back to the sort of GDP figure in the cold war , although they do not necessarily say that we should go to exactly those amount . however , as be say by the hon . Gentleman , who I believe be in military intelligence , in those day almost all of eastern Europe be an armed camp full of soviet division , whereas now those country be in NATO , so the situation have change profoundly . as be rightly say by my right hon . friend the Member for Elmet and Rothwell ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) — one of my predecessor as Minister for Defence Procurement — if we increase defence by a significant amount , the money have to come from somewhere . an increase from the current level of about 2 . 3 % to 3 % equate to £ 20 billion , which be not a small amount of taxpayer ' money . even an increase to 2 . 5 % equate to an extra £ 6 billion . so it be Government policy to support that but to do so when we believe the economy can support it on a sustained basis . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) make a passionate speech about how there have , in effect , be a cut to defence spending in the Budget , and several other Members say the same . I do not agree , although I accept that there be a debate about it . it be about the difference between the main estimate and the supplementary estimate , and some people have say it be about the inclusion of nuclear . to I , the nuclear deterrent be fundamental to defence , so of course it should be in the defence budget . we be not go to take out GCAP or frigate , and we be certainly not go to take out the nuclear deterrent , which be at the heart of the UK ' s defence . I like a lot of what the Minister be say . it be right to say that we have , in Poland , Finland and Sweden , ally in NATO that produce great capability in term of deal with the threat from Russia , but since 1989 China , now one of the two big economy in the world , have go on to be spend £ 232 billion alone on defence — and that be just the official number . we also now have a nuclear armed North Korea , with Iran make its way in the same direction . the world picture be darken . that may not necessarily " directly impact " we , to use the word of other hon . member , although I think it do , but it have indirect impact on some of our ally and on where they need to place their resource . it be a real concern and we should not forget that . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for that . it show why I have repeatedly say that we need to reform defence procurement because of the need to stay competitive with our adversary . I agree with the Chair of the PAC , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) , that we can not just look at what we want to spend and at the future aspiration ; we have to look at how we spend the money that we have well . that be why on 28 February I announce our new integrate procurement model , to completely overhaul our approach to acquisition . I say in my speech — and I stand by this — that the current delegate procurement model , under the Levene reform , have create an inadvertent tendency towards over - programming : as soon as there be financial pressure on the equipment plan , such as we have have through inflation , the single service compete to get their capability on contract . by contrast , the very definition of our integrated approach be pan - defence prioritisation , as we be see in practice in our pende munition plan , which will address many of the concern of right hon . and hon . member about get our industry up to spec in term of missile and other key munition . let I be clear that such prioritisation would be challenge even if we go to 2 . 5 % , such be the nature of defence . a particular priority of our new acquisition model , as be refer to by the Chair of the Defence Committee , be spiral development : accept 60 % or 80 % of requirement rather than 100 % exquisite . the key to that be ramp up our engagement with industry , so we have hold far more engagement event with industry at a secret level . just this week , for example , we have hold engagement between the strategic command and industry about cyber and electronic warfare — at a secret level , because we want to empower industrial innovation . I have also say that export be a key part of get our industrial base as resilient as possible . so I be delighted to confirm the overnight news that BAE Systems will partner in Australia to build its nuclear - power submarine . this be a major moment for AUKUS , and the collective submarine - building will support 7 , 000 additional british job across the programme ' s lifespan . my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) and the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , who this week chair the Sub - Committee on AI , both rightly stress the importance of technology . to see that , one need only look at the situation in Ukraine and at the extraordinary propensity of electronic warfare , which underline how the battle space have change . so a key part of our system will be about learn the lesson from the frontline as rapidly as possible , as we spiral our own development in response . we be learn those lesson . for example , as part of its drive to incorporate autonomous platform fly alongside crew fighter , the RAF be now progress to procure drone to overwhelm an adversary ' s electronic warfare defence . that underline an important point : that advantage in future warfare and uncrewed combat , will not necessarily be gain by individual platform and technology ; it will be their smart integration , across crew and uncrewed system , that will enable we to develop a force fit for the future . that be why I believe we need an integrated approach to procurement . to conclude , the brief snapshot of military exercise that I have outline today do not do justice to the breadth and reach of our armed force . they be more than ready . they be out there , deploy all over the world , keep we safe and defend our interest . meanwhile , the reform we have make to procurement will help we adapt to emerge threat and evolve technological possibility . that be a key lesson from Ukraine and from our Defence Command Paper . this government will continue to back our armed force with record level of defence spending , an ambitious 10 - year equipment plan and by forge a new partnership with industry to co - develop cutting - edge capability . it be a plan that will ensure that our defence industrial base be more resilient and our armed force be well equipped . it be a comprehensive strategy for our national security , and I commend it to the House . Madam Deputy Speaker , as the shadow Secretary of State say , your predecessor in the Chair at the start of the debate compliment the hon . member stand , say that he anticipate the debate would be rich in fact and high in quality . almost universally , he be absolutely right . it be an excellent debate . there be an almost universal view , on both side of the House , that our brilliant armed force be simply run too hard against all that be demand of they to meet essential commitment . a war be take place on our continent . as the Defence Secretary have say , we be in a pre - war phase . our Select Committees have an essential role to play in highlight difficult issue , as we have be do this afternoon . I endorse what the Chairman of the PAC say in relation to find more way in which Select Committees can scrutinise the most sensitive of defence programme . that be important for Parliament and helpful for the Government . we have to rise to the significant challenge set out in the two report , on the readiness of the armed force by the Defence Committee and the equipment plan by the PAC . I welcome what the Minister say about AUKUS . I do not expect he to answer all the question that be raise in the report , but he must work on it because I know the Department will work on it . we have our job to do . it be our duty to raise these difficult concern , and I know both Committees will continue to do so . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the First Report of the Defence Committee , Ready for War ? , HC 26 , the Eighth Report of the Committee of Public Accounts , improve Defence Inventory Management , HC 66 , and the Nineteenth Report of the Committee of Public Accounts , MoD Equipment Plan 2023 - 33 , HC 451 . food Security [ relevant document : Second Report of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , Insect decline and UK food security , HC 326 ; Second Report of the Environmental Audit Committee , environmental change and food security , HC 312 , and the Government response , HC 646 ; Seventh Report of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , food security , HC 622 , and the Government response , Session 2023 - 24 , HC 37 ; oral evidence take before the International Development Committee on 30 January and 12 March 2024 , on the UK Government ' s work on achieve SDG2 : Zero Hunger , HC 112 ; and e - petition 611113 , Ban development on agricultural land to increase food self - sufficiency . ] I will call Philip Dunne to move the motion and will put an advisory 15 - minute limit on the clock , which I be sure will be helpful . I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of food security , include the effect on it of environmental change and of insect decline . I start by thank the Liaison Committee and the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate on food security , as cover in recent report by the Environmental Audit Committee , the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , and the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , chair respectively by myself and my right hon . friend the Members for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) and for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) . I look forward to their contribution . food security affect we all . we all want enough food to feed ourselves and our family . I declare a particular interest in this area as a food producer myself , have hold responsibility for my family farm for over 30 year . our report be , we hope , in the broad sense complementary , in that each Committee recognise threat to the country ' s food security and make recommendation to Government on how to mitigate those threat . it may be hard to imagine the UK not have access to enough food to feed our population , but the truth be that british people have already feel the effect of climate change on our plate . cold snap and flood in Spain and Morocco be partly to blame for empty salad shelf in our supermarket last year . we know that extreme weather event both at home and abroad be likely to become more frequent . cost of living pressure mean that there be household in this country for which insecure access to food be already a daily reality . I commend colleague on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee for their work on household food security . in the Environmental Audit Committee ' s inquiry , we look at how to keep Britons feed in the face of environmental change . what we find be that food production and environmental change be — not to put too fine a point on it — mutually destructive . climate change and biodiversity loss threaten to undermine not just food production itself , but the whole food system . colleague on the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee have draw attention to a particular aspect of this relationship in their recent report on insect decline and UK food security . our global food system be itself one of the big driver of environmental change , contribute to those very factor that undermine food security . in our inquiry , we hear that british farming be responsible for only 0 . 5 % of the UK ' s gross domestic product , but 12 % of our greenhouse gas emission . globally , the food system be responsible for 30 % of carbon emission , but 50 % of biodiversity loss . we frame our finding around three pillar . first , we need to adapt our food and farming system to become more resilient to the effect of climate change and biodiversity loss . secondly , we must mitigate the impact of climate change and biodiversity loss on our food system . thirdly , we must mitigate the damage to the environment that some aspect of our food system may cause . accord to the late annual statistic of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the UK produce 58 % of its own food in 2022 and import the remain 42 % . my Committee take the view that prioritise , sustain and improve our dependence on home - grow produce would be key to keep Britain nourish while protect the planet . that will be particularly important for food that be vital for our health but where we currently rely on import . for example , we currently import 84 % of our fruit . we can not rely on domestic produce alone and even if we do it , would not guarantee food security . we hear that an exclusive focus on produce food here would make we more vulnerable , not less , to extreme weather event such as heatwave , which be become more common not just in other country , but here in the UK . food produce here be dependent on the wide global food system . british food still rely on import fertiliser , pesticide and animal feed . we know all too well that the global food system do not exist in a vacuum . health crisis , such as the covid pandemic or avian flu ; geopolitical crisis , such as Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , the world ' s breadbasket ; and global supply pinch point , such as the blockage in the Suez canal all affect supply chain , price and protectionism , and compound the effect of environmental change . we have see all those thing in the course of this Parliament . when food insecurity be exacerbate by environmental change it can lead to conflict , with devastating consequence . incidentally , that be why our Committee have just this week launch a new inquiry into the effect of climate change and wide security issue , and I encourage anybody who be interested , include those interested in the impact on food security , to submit evidence by the end of April . today , we have publish the Government ' s response to our report on environmental change and food security , and I wish to thank the Minister and his official who have engage with our report . there be much in the response that we welcome , and I would like to focus my remark this afternoon on some of the response to the issue that the Committee highlight in our report . under the Agriculture Act 2020 , the Government be require to produce a food security assessment every three year . although that be welcome , in view of the grow risk of volatility of food supply , we urge the Government in our report to move to an annual publication of its food security report , with which colleague on the EFRA Committee agree . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s recent announcement that the Government will introduce an annual food security index and encourage they to find parliamentary time to put this on to a statutory footing at the early opportunity . we find that one of the easy win in shore up UK food self - sufficiency and mitigate the environmental impact of our food system be to prevent the food that we have produce from go to waste , so I also welcome the £ 15 million that the Prime Minister recently announce to stop farm food go to waste . I would appreciate it if the Minister confirm whether he agree that the Government ' s strategy for prevent food and drink waste , as outline in their waste prevention programme for England , would be greatly enhance if it include some target and timescale for reduce food waste , as be recommend by my Committee . in response to our report , the Secretary of State commit to take a decision in the next four to six month on compulsory food waste reporting by business . I encourage he to do so before Dissolution . I also encourage the Minister to look at accelerate the regulation of insect as a high - protein source — something that have now be approve by the EU . insect can be rear on organic waste stream , include food waste , to create a domestic alternative to soy import for animal feed . it be potentially a tremendous way to have an impact in this area by reduce the million of tonne of soy import for animal feed from country at risk of deforestation , for example . one of the key ingredient for food security be healthy soil , which face degradation from increase drought , flooding and more intense rainfall bring about by climate change . I welcome the new Government commitment to publish a progress report on the development of a soil health indicator by June . ensure that farmer have access to clear information to help to measure the health of their soil , which be a fascinatingly complex subject , be incredibly important , so I be pleased that the Government accept our recommendation to publish guidance for farmer on soil monitoring . I believe that today the EFRA Committee be publish the Government response to its report on soil health , which my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby might refer to in his remark . the other key ingredient be water , so I be particularly pleased that the Minister for water be respond to the debate . food producer need enough of it , and they need it to be clean . my Committee recommend that the Government look holistically at manage water demand so that farmer have enough water in the right place at the right time to be able to feed the nation . the Government ' s commitment to consider more robust water efficiency standard be welcome as a demand control measure , as be their commitment to a third round of the water management grant later this year . we point out that the scheme will benefit only a small proportion of farmer in England . will the Minister state what proportion of farmer he expect to benefit from the water management grant , specifically for establish on - farm reservoir and for precision irrigation technology to help british farming to become more water - efficient and well prepare for hotter , dry summer ? turn briefly to consumption , what we choose to eat can have a big impact on the planet , which clearly affect our future food security . the choice that we make now will affect how much choice we have in the future . in response to our report , the Government point to Public Health England ' s guidance , the Eatwell Guide , state : " give that most people in the UK do not currently follow a diet in line with government dietary recommendation , improvement in population dietary intake in line with the Eatwell Guide would go a significant way to meet sustainability target . " all very laudable stuff . what will the Government do to encourage more people to follow this beneficial guidance ? surely if it be well - evidence advice , the Government should be make more of it . one landmark piece of work that we be still wait for be the Government ' s land use framework . time and again , we hear in our inquiry that optimise the way english land be use for all the many demand require of it be the central issue to maintain food security in a change environment . when he give evidence last July , the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries promise we that the land use framework , already delay , would be publish by the end of 2023 . sadly , the Government be now tell my Committee that it will be publish in 2024 . will the Minister update the House on when in 2024 we can expect the land use framework to be publish ? will he undertake , as my Committee recommend , to publish the Government ' s methodology alongside the land use framework when it eventually appear , to give confidence that the framework will contribute both to maintain food security and to the Government ' s net zero and biodiversity target ? the other hugely relevant innovation bring in by the Government be the environmental land management scheme , or ELMS . the Government describe those scheme as be found on the principle of public money for public good , but minister have decline our reasonable invitation to designate food security as a public good — as the Minister will be aware , the NFU have be call for that for some time . will the Minister explain why ? I do not come here today to be all doom and gloom . the environmental challenge face our food system be worry , but they be also an opportunity for the good of technological innovation . our Committee have be keen to examine over this Parliament how technology can help we to address to environmental and climate change that we face . modern technology — be it the use of artificial intelligence and drone to pinpoint the use of fertiliser , the use or methane - suppress food additive , or alternative protein such as insect , now mostly grow in lab — open up new way of produce food while minimise the environmental impact . I be sure that we will hear a lot about that from my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells . in response to our recommendation on expand the incentive for farmer to take technological innovation , the Government increase the farming equipment and technology grant to a maximum of £ 50 , 000 per farm , and increase its overall budget to £ 70 million , which I welcome . the fact that three Select Committees be here to represent recent report on different aspect of food security show how important the subject be . we be not alone : the International Development Committee be in the middle on an inquiry on hunger and nutrition . I thank the Liaison Committee for grant time for the debate , and I thank the Government for their response to the Environmental Audit Committee report on environmental change and food security . I commend the report to the House . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . it be a great pleasure to follow my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , who chair the Environmental Audit Committee , on which I serve for some time . I be pleased that he refer to my Committee ' s report on soil health and speak about baseline on where we be with our soil . a lot of soil testing work have be do in Northern Ireland . as we have hear , although many farmer , particularly arable farmer , be make great stride in test their soil , none of that datum be upload to any Government website , and there be very little datum on the amount of carbon in our soil and on what we can do to improve the situation . this be not the first time that this House have debate food security . perhaps the most contentious issue dominate politic in the 19th century be the balance to be strike between protect the interest of british farmer and landowner , and the need to provide cheap food to the worker in factory and mill in the industrial revolution . Lord Liverpool introduce the corn law in 1815 , prevent the import of wheat under 80 shilling a quarter , or £ 20 a tonne . in today ' s money , that be double the price that wheat hit after the invasion of Ukraine , although the production stimulate by those protection mean that the actual price of wheat , and hence bread , never reach those dizzy height . my own family farm — to which I draw the House ' s attention in my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — start business four year after the repeal of the corn law by Robert Peel ' s Administration in 1846 . the worker ' cause , lead by Cobden and Bright , have prevail over the landowner ' vested interest . the era of free trade do not submerge the country under cheap import from the empire and new world , however . british farmer enjoy a golden era in the 1870 , help to some extent by the mass exodus of worker from the prairie to make their fortune in the 1849 California gold rush , and by the little matter of the american civil war between 1861 and 1865 . I make these point because of the parallel we see today , as we move out of a protectionist European Union into a new era of free trade . we should not forget that it be only the submarine blockade of the first and second world war that bring into sharp focus the need for domestic food production . two year ago , follow Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , we once again learn the same lesson . we face a whole new challenge today : not only recognise the need for domestically produce food , but strike the right balance between food production and the environmental goal we need to achieve . in many case , those goal can be deliver together , such as through the sustainable farming incentive , but in other , they be mutually exclusive . surely , for example , it make no sense to cover our most productive agricultural land with solar energy array . we can , of course , also produce biofuel on our land : wheat be use to make the ethanol in E10 petrol , and vegetable oil be use for diesel engine . however , if that mean indirect land use change in other part of the world where forest be be clear to create agricultural land , be we really deliver on our overall greenhouse gas obligation ? perhaps the most contentious issue be that of the upland — the moor and dale in place such as North Yorkshire and the Lake district . Henry Dimbleby MBE , who be then lead of the national food strategy for the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , give evidence to my Committee . his report be well worth a read , and I agree with much of its content . it correctly state that the 20 % of farmland that be in the upland contribute only 1 % or 2 % of the calorie produce in this country , and suggest that that land would be well utilise by plant tree to lock up carbon . we have already see that happen in the west of Scotland , with serious consequence for local community and employment , and the Welsh Government have approach it in a very crude way : 10 % of land be to be plant with tree , regardless of the size and viability of the remain farming business . farmer have make their opposition to that policy very clear in Cardiff . I worry when I hear that Labour in Wales be a blueprint for what will happen in England if Labour be to get into power after the election . it be disappointing that there be no Labour Back Benchers in the Chamber today to give I their view of the future . where be they ? we need to strike the right balance between the need to deliver our carbon obligation and the need to support rural community , while also protect the landscape that merit national park designation . my Committee ' s report on food security be launch in July 2022 , as a direct response to market volatility follow the invasion of Ukraine . it be publish in July 2023 , and the Government respond in November last year . we also look at food poverty , extend free school meal provision , and the junk food cycle that contribute to rise obesity level . we make 18 recommendation , which can be read on page 45 to 49 of the report by those who wish to do so . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow refer to , we be delighted that the Government have already adopt a number of those recommendation . I be particularly pleased that the Farm to Fork summit will , as we suggest , now be an annual event , alongside the publication of an annual UK food security report . in February , the Government announce that they would publish an annual food security index , in line with our recommendation in paragraph 29 of the report . I look forward to other aspect of that report be take up , particularly the response to John Shropshire ' s independent review of labour shortage . I have two specific point that I would like to raise . first , do sugar beet and oilseed rape have a future in the UK ? this be particularly relevant give the report on pollinator . the science be clear that neonicotinoid have a profound effect on bee behaviour and hive viability when those insect be expose to they . sugar beet be susceptible to a number of virus disease , include virus yellow . the vector for those virus be the peach potato aphid , Myzus persicae . if an aphid feed on a beet plant , it transmit the virus in much the same way a mosquito transmit malaria . one bite be enough , and the early in the season the infection take place , the more devastating the effect on the yield . in cold winter , there be few over - winter aphid and the risk be low , but if — as in the current season — the scientist at Rothamsted determine that the risk be high , the use of a neonic seed dressing be sanction . if that option be not available , sugar beet production in the UK would quickly become unviable . we would have to import beet sugar from country that have not ban those seed dressing , or cane sugar from tropical area . the point be that bee and other pollinator feed on nectar and pollen . sugar beet be a biennial , and be harvest before it flower — I know that DEFRA ' s chief scientific adviser be look at this issue . be there a risk to bee from soil residue that may be take up by flower plant , either as weed in the sugar beet or in subsequent year ? the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee report call for more research on pesticide accumulation in terrestrial environment . oilseed rape — those yellow field that we see in the spring — have decline by about 60 % in the UK . that be because of the cabbage stem flea beetle , which can decimate the crop as it emerge , and the larvae that hatch can also be a problem in the spring . my farm still grow rape , but like many of my neighbour , this could be our last year . seed dressing only need to work against this pest in the first three or four week of drill in August . the crop do not flower until April or May the follow year . what evidence be there that there be a risk to bee more than six month after the chemical seed dressing have be use , and just as importantly , what will be the effect on pollinator if we lose this important source of pollen and nectar early in the season ? I know some beekeeper worry , as I do , about the law of intend consequence come into play . indeed , in the absence of the neonic seed dressing , my own rape crop be spray five time with synthetic pyrethroid in the month or six week after drill . this be not a chemical that be bee - friendly , although farmer obviously take the precaution of spray when the bee be not fly . for many , the only real alternative crop to sugar beet or rape would be field bean or combine pea . the economic of grow these profitably be not good . perhaps the Minister would consider include these crop as stewardship option and eligible for support to reduce our reliance on import soil , which we know have an effect on the planet globally . secondly , what will be the effect of the wet autumn and winter combine with depressed cereal price on our future food security in the United Kingdom ? around 30 % of our wheat crop either do not get drill last autumn or have rot in the field . with payment for stewardship option look increasingly attractive and predictable , do the Minister share my worry that increase area of land may be enter into multi - annual option such as overwinter bird food , or pollen and nectar , and that we may be short of wheat in future year , or be there a risk that some scheme may even be over - subscribe ? of course , we have other scheme . there be certainly an offset scheme in my area , where quite a large amount of land have be take out of production because of a housing developer need to offset a particular biodiversity . in conclusion , our farmer produce some of the good - quality food in the world . we need to improve the amount of food we produce here , not least because of the environmental impact of international transport , particularly air freight of out - of - season product . we can also deliver the environmental gain that the environmental land management scheme incentivise , but that loss must not be at the expense of domestic production or result in carbon emission elsewhere . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . it be a pleasure to follow my fellow Select Committee Chairs , my right hon . friend the Members for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) and for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) , who speak expertly and forensically about some of the result of their inquiry . one of the pleasure of chair the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee be that we be spoil for choice with the range of fascinating subject into which to inquire , and on which the world ' s expert be only too happy to give we tutorial in public for other member and the wide public to see , so it be very difficult to choose particular subject from among those we have in mind . we be enthusiastic about most of the subject we choose , as we be find new technology that can make huge positive difference to the world . so it be unusual for the title of an inquiry we have conduct to have a slightly minor key element to it . we talk about " insect decline " , and that be because the member of my Committee be worried about the regression or backward step that we have unfortunately see as a country in biodiversity , particularly with respect to insect , over many decade . our report remind we that insect , and indeed all other invertebrate , be significant not only for their intrinsic importance as part of life on earth and in contribute to the richness of our natural world , but in make an essential contribution to the supply of food , as both my right hon . friend mention . pollination be the most obvious example , but they also have crucial role to play in manage crop pest — I think that be a euphemism for consume crop pest — maintain the health of the soil and recycle nutrient from waste . the first thing to say be that although datum be surprisingly patchy , such datum as we have and its interpretation by expert show that UK insect have indeed be in decline . whether that be measure by abundance of insect , which be the number of insect find in a particular place ; the diversity of insect , which be how many different specie be present in a particular place ; or the distribution of insect , which be the number of place in which insect can be find , all three measure indicate a decline in insect in the UK . even though the UK be one of the well - monitor country in the world when it come to insect , with survey such as the Rothamsted insect survey , which begin in 1964 and the UK butterfly monitoring scheme , which start in 1976 , the wealth of knowledge that we have tend to be concentrate into relatively few insect group , principally moth , butterfly , aphid and bee . the bee be a well - study specie , but of the 2 , 000 specie of bee in Europe , more than half have little or no datum associate with they to establish their conservation status , whether that be vulnerable , threatened or of least concern . our report recommend that the funding authority , such as UK Research and Innovation should give great attention to long - term monitoring by improve budget . the UK pollinator monitoring survey have a budget of only £ 216 , 000 a year for such a vital piece of longitudinal information . the celebrated rothamsted insect survey have a budget that equate to £ 440 , 000 a year . these foundational study be much less well - funded than many other study that we see . we also recommend that monitoring take place over the long term , beyond the five - year duration of the typical research grant , and the reason for that be obvious . if we want to see trend that take account of the year - to - year variation in the climate that we inevitably experience , we need that long - term commitment . as well as maintain the coverage of the exist survey , we should look to institute their equivalent cover a wide range of specie , include those not currently cover . know the trend on abundance be one thing — it be important to proceed on the basis of evidence — but we want to halt decline . we have establish that there be decline , and we should halt and reverse the decline that have take place , so policy , as well as datum , be important . the national pollinator strategy that many member in this debate will be familiar with be an excellent model for that , and my Committee strongly commend it , but as I say a few moment ago , pollination and pollinator be not the only contribution that insect and wide invertebrate make to our ecology . we recommend that the approach of the national pollinator strategy should be apply to a national invertebrate strategy , contain accountability target for non - pollinate , but agriculturally beneficial invertebrate . even within specie such as the bee , there have be concentration on honeybee , for reason that be perhaps understandable . member should not get I wrong — honey beekeepe be important . I be always grateful to my constituent , Mr Lorne Mitchell , who bring I a jar of his delicious honey from Goudhurst every time he come to my surgery — long may that continue — but honeybee be not the only thing we should worry about . there be more than 270 wild specie of bee in the UK , and they need conserve , as well as promote the pollination advantage of honeybee . we call on DEFRA — I hope the Minister will respond positively to this — to expand the remit of the National Bee Unit to include a focus on wild bee health as well as honey bee . in this work , it be not just professional entomologist and researcher in our university and institution such as Rothamsted who be important , because amateur entomologist have always play an important role in collect datum for research . every member will know about the data collection that we have , in some case go back many decade and even century , from amateur enthusiast who have meticulously compile datum in particular area . in some respect that be become more popular . in the Big Butterfly Count , over 100 , 000 citizen scientist , as I think we can call they , take part annually . some amateur entomologist be real expert . in Tunbridge Wells Dr Ian Beavis be an institution , with an encyclopaedic and profound knowledge of the insect of the High Wealds that surpass that of any professor . our Committee believe that funding authority should be able to allow funding to go to expert of that type , who may not be employ in university or research institution , and that they should be able to participate in conference , publication , and symposia through an outreach of the grant programme to provide opportunity for they . both my right hon . friend refer to many of the agricultural policy that their Committees have look into and promote to the Government . my Committee share the approval that both their committee give to the statutory target to halt and reverse specie extinction and decline , but we believe they be too narrowly focused . for example , we believe that as well as have a red list of particular specie that be at risk of extinction , as we have at the moment , there should also be a baseline list consist of a wide range of insect and other invertebrate , so that we can monitor progress over time against those baseline , sometimes even before specie become a cause for concern . my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby speak about the role of pesticide . that be an important matter and , as he say , we have call for more research to be do . we share the concern of many member of the House , include those on the Environmental Audit Committee , that the Government be yet to publish a revise national action plan for sustainable pesticide use . that have now be delay by more than six year since an update be due in February 2018 . we believe that an update plan should include a target for reduce pesticide use in urban and suburban area , as well as in agricultural setting , follow the good practice that we hear in evidence to our inquiry from organisation such as the Royal Horticultural Society about phase down the use of pesticide in garden , as it be do in its important and celebrate garden at Wisley . finally , much have be say about stewardship scheme such as the environmental land management scheme that be replace the EU ' s common agricultural policy . there be a big opportunity for the scheme to be beneficial for biodiversity , and specifically as a vehicle for insect decline to be target , halt and reverse . we would like integrate p management , which be a much more holistic and natural way of suppress pest , to be advance , test and deploy as pilot through the early implementation of ELMS . if that be show to be effective , it should be incorporate as specific action within ELMS . in promote biodiversity , not only be we exercise stewardship over our precious natural environment — something every Member of the House be concern to do — but we can make an important contribution to our economy and national security by ensure that our supply of food be more resilient . I look forward to the Minister ' s response to the point raise , and to the contribution of other hon . member . I thank my right hon . friend the Select Committee Chairs for their excellent report on food security and for secure the debate . it be such an important topic , and one that I have be passionate about for a long time , so it be right that it be at the forefront of the political agenda . our food system now produce an unbelievable array of food , and we produce almost twice as many calorie per person on this planet as we do back in the 1940 , but the food system that we have create have completely dominate planetary ecosystem . if we look at the food system ' s impact , we see that it be by far the big cause of biodiversity loss , deforestation , water stress , freshwater pollution and destruction of aquatic life — and , together with the energy system , one of the two big cause of climate change . food security depend on global peace and stability , and a healthy planet and population . we have be face a threat to all three of those . we see disruption to the supply chain cause by the pandemic and risk trigger by the climate emergency and conflict such as Putin ' s war in Ukraine . we know that food shortage lead to political unrest , that famine trigger mass migration , and that climate change and biodiversity loss have lead to the depletion of our ecosystem . we need to look again at how we rebuild a strong food system to ensure that everyone have access to nutritious and affordable food ; how we can safeguard our countryside and restore the environment ; how we can offer job to our community ; and how we can reduce the health problem cause by bad diet . the need to be self - sustain in fruit and vegetable be become even great . while that be a challenge , domestic food production have significant benefit for both our health and environment by reduce air mile , and for the economy by enable farmer and small food business to thrive . currently as a country we produce 63 % of all the food we need and 73 % of the food that we can grow or rear in the UK for all or part of the year . those figure have change little in the last 20 year , and they mask some of the self - sufficiency challenge in particular food group , with only 13 % of fresh fruit and 50 % of vegetable consume in the UK be home - grow . domestically , the Government have commit to maintain — not enhance — the level of food that we produce . we should set our sight higher and look at grow , quite literally , our local food production . invest in the late technology and grow system can extend the availability of british produce for more month of the year . for example , arguably the most iconic product — the british strawberry — have see yield double in the last 20 year and the season extend to nearly nine month . we should put more emphasis on localism to provide a food system that be resilient and deliver a vibrant , cyclical local economy . back our farmer be so important , which be why I be grateful that the Prime Minister announce measure and funding at the National Farmers Union conference to invest in home - grow opportunity for food innovation and to boost productivity and resilience in the sector . as consumer , we also have a role to play when consider our buying habit . I recently cook a community meal where all the vegetable be donate by local producer . one local grower , Derek Hulme , who be a three - time Guinness world record breaking producer of giant vegetable , provide courgette the size of marrow . while they look impressive and certainly taste good , I reflect that they would have fail the size test in the local supermarket , where standardisation of product be value . be it not time for we to accept that perfect fruit and vegetable be an artificial construct that we have accept without question for far too long ? that certainly be not beneficial to our health or food security . we waste huge quantity of natural produce that be perfectly good but not up to the exact standard require by lead supermarket . in recent year , we have see the introduction of a category of " wonky " fruit and veg , which allow less manicure product to find their way to market . but be it not time to welcome the idea that " wonky " do not have to be a separate range ? just as human come in all shape and size , carrot and potato grow in interesting shape . we must look at our local food supply chain and think more about what we can do to reduce waste . the current impact of labour shortage have be describe as the " principal factor limit UK food production " . this be not just about seasonality but about worker throughout the whole supply chain . it be truly tragic to see food leave rot in field for the lack of people to help harvest it . I look forward to hear from the Minister what the Government be do to prioritise the country ' s long - term food security and ensure that the food supply chain have access to sufficient labour , include from overseas , and can realise its growth potential . failure to do so place at risk the achievement of our self - sufficiency target and broad food security . as highlight in the report we be discuss , food production and environmental improvement can and must go hand in hand . we be already see the benefit of environmental scheme , such as action through the sustainable farming incentive to support the creation of flower - rich buffer that help pollinator , which in turn produce well yield . I remember learn about the role of pollinator in science lesson at school . public interest often focus on the charismatic insect such as bee and butterfly . I thank the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee for its recent report on insect decline and food security , which refer to the less - know , hard - to - identify and for many people unappeale insect specie that play vital ecological role , particularly in create a productive landscape for food production . they require equal attention . Dung beetle , for instance , play a vital role in maintain pasture that livestock feed on by fertilise and aerate soil and help to reduce greenhouse emission . those ecosystem service have be estimate to save the UK cattle industry up to £ 367 million a year . disruption to their population have negative impact on both soil health and long - term food production in these area . it be positive to hear of farmer invest in the foundation of food production — healthy soil , water and biodiverse ecosystem . in the UK , 70 % of land be farm , so agricultural practice have a major influence on insect population . the lack of datum and understanding of thing such as the impact of pesticide on insect specie be poor . we know that something have to be measure in order for there to be effective solution to address it , so I support call for a more comprehensive approach in the review of the national pollinator strategy , due this year , that include provision for invertebrate that carry out other important ecological role , particularly relate to food security . the environmental improvement plan set out a target to bring at least 40 % of England ' s agricultural soil into sustainable management through farming scheme by 2028 , increase to 60 % by 2030 . we need to continue to be ambitious and ensure that food productivity and long - term food security be at the heart of the Government ' s priority . like my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) , I thoroughly enjoy our kentish honey , so I welcome his encouragement of pollinator . may I start by put on record my thank to the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , the Environmental Audit Committee and the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee for their important work ? I be grateful for the opportunity to discuss the vital issue of food security . food security be important , as be other type of security , such as energy security or our national defence . represent the area that be both guardian and gateway to our great nation for the european continent , I know that it be vital that there be robust measure and control in place to protect our national interest . as outline by the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , the Government ' s failure to bring forward an effective land use framework in time or an ambitious internal food strategy will leave our country continue to be dependent on food import . the Environmental Audit Committee have report that over 40 % of the UK ' s food be import , and more than a quarter of that come from the EU and wide Europe . a lot of that come in through the port of Dover . meat be the second high import in our country , with a value of around £ 7 billion and an export value of around £ 2 billion the other way . it be of the utmost importance , when it come to food security , that appropriate and effective check be implement and fund . the Environmental Audit Committee have note : " since … food security depend on some degree of import , it be vital that environmental harm be not export abroad . " a failure in import biosecurity on food export , such as in the case of african swine flu , would decimate our domestic production capability for year , and clearly it would affect our export market as a result . in spite of biosecurity warning and concern from I , the EFRA Committee , Dover Port Health Authority and business operate across the channel route , the Government remain steadfast in their decision to do the wrong thing when it come to protect biosecurity at the Dover border . the Government have be formally and persistency warn over the past two year that , as we have hear , Russia ' s war on Ukraine and global food price spike and constraint have impact the quality and availability of food . that have also result in increase biosecurity risk , as we have be inform . food producer and custom business have echo some of the concern make by the Committees . one custom business write to I in scathing term : " throughout this saga defra and the Cabinet Office have be disingenuous at well , arrogant certainly but in the care of UK human and animal health , appear to be derelict in their duty . the blatant attempt to cover up scandalous spending and shall we say misdirection regard safety , remove the internationally recognise safeguard of within the port of entry ' s accept legal area for BCP check . " it go on to say that there will be an increase in " biosecurity breach and , for the less compliant a great opportunity to undermine all those seek to do the right and safe thing . " to what be this business refer ? it be refer to the Government ' s new security control regime , which put the Dover port check 22 mile away in Ashford . that be the same distance as from Dover to France — a long way . the EFRA Committee have write to the Government to ask for assurance about biosecurity management along that route . many member of the House will have hear I speak about that route as be prone to traffic congestion from time to time . it be a " single point of failure " road where , from time to time , no traffic move in either direction . yet 22 mile away be where the Government have put these new control , even though there be a ready - to - use , state - of - the - art border control facility raring to go on the Dover frontline . in the next few day , if not today , the Government will table a statutory instrument to underpin their new biosecurity structure . I want to draw it to the House ' s attention because it reflect on the important work of the Committees . there will not be an automatic consideration by a Committee of this fundamental change to how our border be manage , because this measure , which will weaken future border control and our country ' s biosecurity , be to be lay under the negative procedure . we will therefore not have an opportunity to debate it . this new statutory instrument cover animal health , plant health and genetically modify organism — important for we all to keep an eye on . it also cover poison , plant protection product — pesticide and the like — and other pollutant . it will remove the requirement for these check to be do at a location immediately proximate to the border . that will be the case for the first time because currently , under retain EU law that our government confirm after we leave the EU , there be a requirement for proximity — the near place possible to make these important check . I be sure we would all agree that it be very sensible to do border check at the border — why would we not ? the new statutory instrument will elevate visual and local character at a border point of entry over and above standard of protect good and food . it will elevate both visual and environmental issue over and above biosecurity and national interest food security management . it contain no requirement for there to be effective biosecurity control between the port of entry and the place of check . just to remind member , that be 22 mile of open , or sometimes congest or closed , kentish road . there be no role for the current port health authority to inform the decision that will be make . it will be the decision of the new port authority , which in this case will be not one but two local authority away . that matter because at the Dover frontline we have a really remarkable , effective and committed port health team . it have bring to the Government ' s attention in formal report over the last two year — not once and not twice , but several time — that biosecurity risk have increase and continue to be of great significance at the border . I pay tribute to its work and believe it should be well support . it say , and this be a matter I have raise in debate in this House over the last two year , that " to not mobilise the facility " — the exist facility at Dover — " would be an act of negligence that would significantly increase the risk of devastating consequence of another animal , health or food safety catastrophe . " my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells mention the importance of control pesticide , and he be absolutely right . but we can not just control pesticide here , because of the very significant role of product come into our country through import . let I refer to just one example . one item that be stop by the port health team at the Dover port be pesticide on eastern european flax seed , of the sort we might sprinkle on cereal . they be find to exceed the maximum level for UK health safety . in other word , they be dangerous to human life . that be illegal for the UK market and , give our own focus in the UK on want to improve the position on pesticide , it be unquestionable that we do not want product to come into this country that be both a danger to human health and could potentially damage our farming and food producer . biosecurity be a real concern . for example , on african swine fever the Government have say : " the disease pose a significant risk to our pig herd and our long - term ability to export pork and pork product around the globe . " so on food security we need robust measure on african swine fever in particular , because it be a know concern in term of animal disease and its effect be devastating where they occur . in spite of that , the Government decide to slash african swine fever funding at the port of Dover and significantly reduce its capability to do check . that do not protect our farmer or our food security . that decision put our country and its farming at risk . I urgently ask the Government to reconsider that decision . food security be not just about what we grow ; it be about protect the very food on our table , and our farmer and food producer too . we can not secure our food and food production without have strong border and effective control . I be grateful for all the work of the Committees , in particular the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , which be do such important work on this issue . I thank all member for their contribution today . it be a privilege and honour to speak in this very important debate . food security be part of national security . it be a vital issue . the fact that three major Select Committees table this debate to the Liaison Committee show its importance for our country . I be very proud to represent a constituency with a large farming footprint , both as the Member of Parliament and as a proud member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . I pay tribute first to our fantastic farmer and grower up and down the land who produce the high - quality food to the high production standard and look after the precious environment , and to the body , such as the National Farmers Union , that champion the sector . produce food and look after the environment can and should go hand in hand , and our UK farmer be the good in the world in that regard . our Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee look at this issue directly in produce our report " food security " , and it have examine other aspect in study include our ongoing study entitle " Fairness in the food supply chain " and previous inquiry such as " move animal across border " , " labour in the food supply chain " , " covid - 19 and food supply " , and " soil health " , which be mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) , who chair the Committee . the challenge to our farmer and grower be huge . the importance of how we produce our food have be bring into sharp relief first during the pandemic , and now with the war in Ukraine . in Britain we have see our excellent farmer and grower battle through this geopolitical context , deal with factor such as extreme weather event , whether they involve a lack of water or flooding , and show real tenacity in deliver for our country . we all remember the startling headline and the shortage on our shelf at the beginning of the pandemic . the concept of key worker be very much in our mind at that time . first and foremost we think of NHS worker , but we also think of the importance of all those involve in the food supply chain — farmer , grower , vet , driver and abattoir worker . they be classify as key worker , and it be important to remember that . the tragic illegal invasion of Ukraine by Russia have again bring this issue into sharp focus . again our producer face mount challenge : increase fuel and energy cost , increase animal feed cost and increase fertiliser cost , as well as a lack of supply of fertiliser . bolster our food security be an urgent task , give inflation cost and the challenge around the world such as the war in Ukraine . we must think hard about become more self - sufficient . we produce about 60 % of what we consume , and I firmly believe that we need to produce more . Fertiliser become an important issue as a result of the russian invasion of Ukraine . the Select Committee take a close interest in that , suggest that the UK need to be more resilient . the fertiliser company CF Fertilisers UK have mothball its Ince plant and end ammonia production in its Billingham plant . a by - product of fertiliser production and ammonia production be carbon dioxide , which , as we know , be vital for our food and beverage industry , but which be also vital to the process of slaughter pig and poultry . I strongly believe that the Government need to keep a watching brief on how we can secure a resilient supply of fertiliser and carbon dioxide . as my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) mention , biosecurity be pivotal to food security , and it be also pivotal to national security . as a veterinary surgeon , I have see how crucial it be , and not just for our nation but for our world . I start my journey into politic as a veterinary surgeon on the frontline , witness and supervise the cull during the foot and mouth crisis of 2001 , and I see sight then that I never want to see again in my lifetime . as we have hear , african swine fever be advance upwards through the continent of Europe . it be yet to reach the UK , and I pray that it never do , but if it do it will be catastrophic for our country — catastrophic for our animal health in term of the pig sector , but also for human mental health . another major inquiry undertake by our Committee , entitle " rural mental health " , examine the challenge and pressure face by people work in rural community and the food production chain , such as animal disease outbreak , extreme weather event and rural isolation . in the event of a catastrophic animal health outbreak such as swine fever , the mental health implication for people across the country would be devastating . I pay tribute to the Government and the Animal and Plant Health Agency . we be face many threat , include , as I have say , african swine fever , but there be also ongoing threat such as avian influenza , which be still bubble away . I know that Ministers and official be currently very exercise by the threat from the bluetongue virus ; we have see case in Kent , Suffolk , Norfolk and Surrey , and when the Culicoides midge season arrive we will be under real threat . there be also ongoing , chronic threat from disease such as bovine tuberculosis . I hesitate to intervene on my hon . friend , but he have just refer to TB and the mental health implication of animal health crisis for our farmer . I would like to mention to the House that , on my own farm , we have just go down with TB for the second time in six month . we have have 13 cow in calf — some have just calve , and some be about to calf — that be reactor . we do not yet know whether they be positive or be just reactor — in other word , whether they receive false positive . there be confusion between DEFRA and the vet about whether those animal could be take to the slaughterhouse or have to be shoot on farm . DEFRA be tell we that they have to go to the slaughterhouse . it turn out that have we do that , we would have be in breach of the law , because one can not take an animal to a slaughterhouse within a month of its give birth . consequently , the animal have to be shoot on farm , include calf and pregnant cow on the brink of give birth . the mental health impact on the farmer who have to look after those animal be very significant . at this time of the year , this terrible disease affect many people . I thank my right hon . friend for that powerful testimony . in the EFRA Committee ' s rural mental health inquiry , we take similarly powerful evidence on the implication of TB when there be an outbreak , but also when farmer be involve in testing . there be implication for vet and farmer while they be wait for the result to come through , and from what happen when there be positive result , so I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . the APHA be part of our frontline in protect our biosecurity . it have its headquarters in Weybridge , Surrey , and the EFRA Committee visit the institution , which need a radical refurbishment and redevelopment . the Government be commit to that , but I urge they to press ahead at full steam . it require a lot of money — £ 2 . 8 billion . some £ 1 . 2 billion have be allocate so far , but the EFRA Committee take evidence from the chief veterinary officer , who press the case for how important it be that the APHA be redevelop . I hope that the Minister take that message away . I know that DEFRA be on the same page and be make the case to the Treasury that we need to spend a fair amount of money now to prevent a future crisis . we have talk today about some of the international challenge that our farmer and grower have face , not least the ongoing situation in Ukraine and the middle east . as we have hear , Ukraine be the breadbasket of Europe . it be important for supply of grain and sunflower , but also fertiliser . what we have see throughout that crisis be a choking of supply through the Black sea , and the deliberate and cynical decision by Putin to pull Russia out of the UN ' s Black sea grain initiative , lead to its subsequent collapse . that have choke off supply to the rest of the world . what we have see as a consequence — I be sure this be intend by Putin — be food shortage and potential famine in the develop world . as a country , we need to be cognisant of that . it be so important that the Black sea route get back up to speed . the action of the Houthis in the Red sea have affect trade and the free passage of vessel , which have implication for the security of shipping and trade route . cost have increase due to diversion around the Cape of Good Hope , add an extra 14 day to journey and sometimes upwards of an extra £ 1 million for a vessel ' s voyage . that will have unintended consequence for the price and availability of food and other supply . secure the passage of good throughout the world be part of global security , and we need to think about the Black sea , the Red sea , the Panama canal and the Suez canal to make sure that such route be viable . amid all these challenge , I be proud that our Government be support the sector . we have a Prime Minister , a Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and a Government who be fully aware of the issue and challenge face our farmer and grower , and I know the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , personally feel it too . I be pleased to attend the Prime Minister ' s farm to fork summit . food production and food security be bring into the heart of no . 10 be an important statement to the country . it be important that we be maintain the farming budget for England at £ 2 . 4 billion a year through this Parliament and , come into this election year , we need clarity that that level of funding will continue . farmer and grower need to be able to plan , so we need to have security . our horticulture and agriculture have be bolster by additional visa , allow people to come in to harvest crop . that have be expand to the poultry sector , but we need to keep a watching brief . my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) talk about animal be put down on farm . in the pig sector , where we have have labour shortage in the abattoir and processing sector over the past couple of year , upwards of 60 , 000 healthy pig be cull on farm . that be awful food wastage , but it be also harrowing and incredibly distress for the people who rear those pig . we need to keep a watching brief so that those situation never happen again . our Committee and the EAC have call for food security to be review annually . I be pleased that the Government have announce an annual food security index that will underpin the food security report , which be an important statement . the last food security report be in December 2021 , prior to the Ukraine war . we need annual check - up , and I be pleased that the Government have respond to the Select Committees ' report . the Government be also very aware that good farming and food production and a healthy environment go hand in hand , and that the ELM scheme be pivotal in support both those goal . I be pleased that the Secretary of State have announce an expansion of ELMS in recent month . my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) mention the situation in Wales . if that be go to be labour ' s blueprint for England , there be a real concern that 10 % of food - produce land will be divert to plant tree and that another 10 % will be divert to wildlife habitat . that be a noble intention , but the idea of force farmer to take 20 % of their food - produce land out of production be deeply alarming . we have talk about TB policy , and the statistic for cattle herd in Wales and England show that the TB situation be bad in Wales . we need to be cognisant and follow the science . we need evidence - base policymake to control the dreadful threat of bovine TB . I congratulate the Government on their important Genetic Technology ( Precision Breeding ) Act 2023 . the Act , which some of the report touch on , allow the technology to produce climate - resistant and disease - resistant crop , as well as disease - resistant animal and bird , which will reduce the need for drug and antimicrobial and will indirectly help public health . it will help animal health , bird health and public health , and it will support the environment . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee visit the world - lead Rothamsted Research to look at its work . I support the Government ' s animal health and welfare pathway , their legislation to ban the live export of animal for fatten and slaughter , and their £ 4 million fund for small abattoir . those measure will help animal to be produce , rear , slaughter and ultimately consume locally , which be a win for local community and for animal welfare , because animal will not have to be transport long distance . we have the high animal welfare standard in the world , and we can be a beacon to the rest of the world in our policymaking . I be proud that our Conservative Government have do that . the Government pause their trade negotiation with Canada , which be an important symbolic statement . they say , " no , we have red line on hormone - treat beef , ractopamine - treat pork and chlorine - wash product . these be red - line product that be illegal in this country , and we will not import they . " I congratulate the Government on stand firm , because that say to the world , " this be where we stand and these be our value . if you want to trade with we , meet our standard . " we can not shy away from the need to do more to bolster our food security , domestic production and standard . the environmental land management scheme be good measure . we must ensure that all type of farmer be fairly reward , include commoner , tenant and upland farmer . our Committee have look at the issue and we have be call for that . we also need to make sure that we be train up the next generation of people to go into farming by support our land - base educational sector . my colleague have talk about food waste and we need to tackle that . we also need to think about fairness in the food supply chain , which our Select Committee be very much look at . in conclusion , I pay tribute to all our farmer , grower and producer , and everyone else involve in produce food in our country . do that and look after the environment go hand in hand . we be a beacon to the world in our production standard . this area be vital for our community and it be so important that our Government continue to support it , and I commend our report to the House . I wish to start by thank all three Committees for their excellent report and for secure this important debate . let I also highlight some shareholding in my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . food and drink be the UK ' s large manufacturing sector , contribute some £ 127 billion to our economy . the quality of what we produce be recognise throughout the world and play a significant role in our global brand . as a former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , I know that farming be an integral part of our national identity , help to bind our Union of nation together . the value of our upland farmer be particularly keenly feel across the nation and region , and I pay tribute to they and all farmer , and indeed everyone involve in the food sector . clearly , farming be not just a job ; it be a cultural identity at the heart of our rural community . as we have hear , the role that farmer perform go far beyond the food they produce ; crucially , they be custodian of our natural environment and our iconic landscape . event of recent year have emphasise the huge importance of food security to every single one of we . a massive government effort be focus on prepare for our EU exit , then on maintain food supply during the pandemic and , most recently , on deal with the impact of the Ukraine war . in the face of all those challenge , the UK food supply chain have show itself to have great resilience . however , as the Select Committee report show , further vital matter still need to be address , include by tackle the food price inflation of recent year . I really welcome the progress we be see on that , with yesterday ' s fall in the overall rate of inflation . we also need measure to ensure that farmer get a fair price for what they produce , and it be good to have the Prime Minister ' s assurance that the Groceries Code Adjudicator will continue as an independent body and not be merge into the Competition and Markets Authority . thirdly , we have to reduce carbon emission from agriculture if we be to meet our net zero commitment and ensure that we transition to farming method that give more space for nature . that include tackle the serious problem we have with insect , which be highlight by my right hon . friend the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . much depend on ELMS , which be replace the common agricultural policy . we need to achieve the crucial balance of ensure that they keep our farm viable and profitable , while secure public good on nature and climate . when I be Environment Secretary , I be dismay to receive a certain amount of collective responsibility push - back because I want to assert that ELMS should help farmer earn a living . of course they should do that , because a successful and profitable farming sector be crucial for food security , the importance of which every speaker have emphasise this afternoon . in the role I then play , I feel it be very important to add commitment on food security to what be then the Agriculture Bill , now the Agriculture Act 2020 , include the three - yearly report . I welcome the progress towards an annual food security index report publication , as promise by the Prime Minister . real progress be be make on improve ELMS and the sustainable farming incentive in response to feedback and concern express by the farming community . I be confident that those programme will be a huge improvement on the EU one they replace , and that they will deliver substantial benefit in reduce carbon emission and protect nature . in particular , I commend the effort that be be make to protect peatland habitat and care for hedgerow . in my view , it would have be extremely difficult to deliver a successful transition to more sustainable farming without maintain overall level of funding for farm support . I fight successfully for the conservative manifesto commitment to do that ; I hope we see similar commitment in the forthcoming manifesto . even with that funding , the transition continue to be complex and difficult . I appeal to Ministers to continue to engage closely with farmer and to make further alteration to ELMS , as and when it be need in response to change circumstance and as a great knowledge base be build up in relation to the scheme . I emphasise that we should not follow the example set in Wales , where their proposal would do significant damage to our farming sector and thus to our food security . we have one of the big science and research budget in the world , include £ 168 million for agricultural innovation . all of these report show that we must increase the uptake of new technology in the farming sector if we be to have a chance of meet the crucial environmental and biodiversity goal we have be speak about . like my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) , I think lift the EU ban on gene editing technology be a tremendous step forward . it could play an important part in boost our effort to ensure we can feed an ever - grow global population in a way that be consistent with our commitment on climate and nature . finally , if we be to ensure we have resilient supply of food and thrive agriculture in this country , these domestic goal must be at the heart of our trade policy . like other who have serve as DEFRA Secretary , I have a number of debate with ministerial colleague on these matter . a key problem with the global trade system be that sanitary and phytosanitary rule be focus on concern about human health , important as they be , and they be less clear on environmental and animal welfare standard . I have always argue for permanent quota to restrict import in sensitive sector , where those import be produce to low environmental and animal welfare standard than our . there be little point impose high standard at home if we simply import more food as a result , with the outcome that we offshore carbon emission , biodiversity loss and animal cruelty . for those reason , I have concern about aspect of the Australia trade agreement , particularly in relation to the beef sector , but I warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement in advance of his farm to fork summit that permanent quota would be use where appropriate . as far as I know , neither of his two immediate predecessor as Prime Minister be ever prepared to say that , and it demonstrate the Prime Minister ' s strong commitment to british farming . our farmer here in the UK operate to some of the high environmental and animal welfare standard in the world . we should be proud of they and we should back they . if we be to meet our goal on climate and nature , we must work closely with they to deliver a successful transition to net zero , while ensure that everyone continue to have access to the safe , high - quality , affordable food that they need . I shall now call the speaker from the three Front - Bench team , start with the SNP spokesperson . food security be a term that we have all become more familiar with over recent year . it should mean that a nation can sustainably provide for all its citizen through well - resource and highly value agricultural community . it should mean a farming system that balance fair pay for worker with affordable price in the shop . and it should mean a food supply chain that be reliable and serve the need of our struggle planet , as global temperature rise and population swell . I have hold this brief for only a short time , but I be already well aware of the endless vary definition of food security , as be note by the Environmental Audit Committee in its report . I have also note the EFRA Committee ' s scrutiny of the choose definition of food security by the Minister of State for Food , Farming and Fisheries , and I join fellow member of that Committee in express concern that that Minister be not take household ' ability to access food into account when consider this vital topic . for we in the SNP , there be some definition and some area that take priority . I shall focus on those , because food security , or more appropriately food insecurity , sit at the heart of two define crisis face the people of Scotland today : the climate crisis , with its impact of extreme weather on our planet ' s ability to provide for grow population ; and the cost of living crisis , which have be turbocharge by this Tory Government ' s reckless relationship with the economy . many member will be familiar with the Trussell Trust charity . within its network be just under 1 , 400 food bank , with estimate of a further 1 , 000 or so food bank operate independently across the UK . there be three such food bank in my constituency , which be do fantastic work in extremely difficult circumstance , and I thank they all for that . the Trussell Trust tell a stark and revealing story . in 2010 , when this Government first assume office , the Trussell Trust deliver few than 300 , 000 emergency food parcel . last year , follow 13 year of Tory rule , that number have rise to 3 million parcel , 260 , 000 of which be distribute across Scotland . datum from the Department for Work and Pensions have find that a staggering 4 . 7 million people in the UK be in food - insecure household . that be 7 % of our total population . that same datum tell we that , between 2010 and last year , 19 % of child live in household with either low or very low food security . of those child in poverty , 38 % be in household with low or very low food security . that be shameful datum and it be a vivid reminder that child poverty have be rise in every single part of the UK every year . that be happen long before the pandemic , and , respectfully , long before any invasion of Ukraine , which highlight the vulnerability of global supply chain . long before any of that , there be people in abject poverty in the United Kingdom . what kind of a legacy be that ? it be the Tories ' legacy . we have often hear member on the Government Benches — some of they have cross the Floor now — talk about the choice that people make that lead they into abject poverty , insinuate that it be their own fault that they find themselves in such circumstance . however , the reality be that the choice that really matter be political choice . they be choice take in place such as this . they be choice repeatedly make by this Conservative Government for 14 year now that have allow 4 . 2 million child to grow up in poverty . the Tory approach to problem - solve also summarise the UK ' s position on the climate crisis . both at home and overseas , climate change be already cause chaos for our food supply . our farmer in Scotland need our support to provide vital resource for our community . we in the SNP have make repeat call for such support , as have farmer ’ union and family farmer , but , repeatedly and rather unsurprisingly , those call and concern have fall on the deaf ear of this Government . as well as trade disruption , this Government ' s Brexit obsession have create significant workforce recruitment issue for Scotland ' s food and drink sector . many export to the EU have fall , include a 38 % fall in fruit and vegetable export , and a 7 % fall in dairy and egg export between 2019 and 2022 . extreme temperature across Europe have lead to an unprecedent level of wildfire and drought , and in turn food production have suffer , with shortage and therefore price increase for the like of olive oil , rice and potato , and an increase in animal welfare concern . all those point be reference in all the report that we be debate . our food system be close to breaking point . domestic supplier be do their very good in challenging circumstance , but they be be put at a constant competitive disadvantage thank to the choice of this Government . food price in shop be rocket , force more and more family to make impossible decision about whether they should heat their home or feed their child . the SNP Government in Holyrood have choose an alternative path to that of the Tory Government here in Westminster . in 2023 , we create a new dedicated food security unit , task with monitor the scottish food supply chain for possible disruption . a similar unit be one of the key recommendation of the Environmental Audit Committee , so I encourage the government once again to follow Scotland ' s lead in that regard . our vision for agriculture have food right at its heart , make clear our support for farmer and crofter in provide Scotland with healthy food , while ensure that Scotland meet its world - lead climate and nature restoration target and outcome . unlike the Tories , the Scottish Government have take bold step to address child poverty . the introduction of the scottish child payment , unique across the UK , have be describe by anti - poverty charity as an absolute game changer in the fight against child poverty . the payment have already benefit thousand of family on low income all across Scotland . the Scottish Government also provide support worth around £ 5 , 000 by the time a child turn six through the good start grant , good start food , and the scottish child payment . thank to Westminster , rather than sustainable food production , UK food self - sufficiency be below 60 % . instead of value scottish farmer and crofter , we have a Westminster Government whose new visa rule be threaten farmer ’ financial sustainability , and who have repeatedly put we at a competitive disadvantage with reckless , poorly negotiate trade deal and incentive for low - value import . we have 4 . 2 million child grow up in poverty , and a 900 % increase in the use of emergency food support in the 14 year that this Tory Government have wreak their havoc from the Dispatch Box . the report be timely , and I thank the Committees for their work in bring the scale of the issue to light . they illuminate the scale of hardship face by many of our constituent and lie bare the tragic impact of unjustifiable political decision and a lack of political leadership . the SNP believe that the scottish people deserve well . we deserve to have full control of our food production , our import and export , our destiny and future , and the support that we provide to those who need it . the only way that we can rid ourselves of Tory chaos for good , and avoid the clutch of Labour ' s bear - again Thatcherites , be for an independent Scotland to return to its rightful place within the European Union . at the next general election , only the SNP will offer that choice to the scottish electorate . I congratulate all those who secure the debate , the three Select Committee Chairs on their very thoughtful introduction — exactly as one would expect — and the member of those Committees , who put in so much hard work . I assure all those people that I will look very closely at their recommendation . I also thank other for their contribution . I find myself very much in agreement with the comment on biosecurity make by the hon . member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) and for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) . I struggle slightly with some of the other contribution on hedgerow protection . we find ourselves in the unfortunate position of hedgerow be currently unprotected because the Government have fail to introduce legislation quickly enough . on food security in general , I be delighted by the conversion of Government Members to the cause that Labour and I be advance four year ago during the passage of the Agriculture Act 2020 . government member consistently vote down our amendment propose an annual food security review . we have now come to that point , which I welcome , but I remind those member that it be not what they support four or five year ago . rise — I will not take intervention , because conservative Members have speak at length this afternoon and we do not have much time . I do not mean in any way to disregard the significance of the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . as far as Labour be concerned , food security be absolutely a matter of national security . as the report point out , the sector have see significant shock over the last few year , as various climate event across the globe have impact on so many crop and harvest , and make life so hard for many farmer , particularly the recent flood . however , some challenge be not consequence of thing beyond our control ; quite frankly , some have be make bad by political decision make here . other — the skyrocket cost of fertiliser , animal feed and energy — be consequence of the situation in Ukraine . alongside that , there have be a difficult transition from the previous agricultural support system to ELMS , and persistent labour shortage . I will ask the Minister about the Government ' s response to John Shropshire ' s good report on the agricultural workforce , which highlight many of the problem that the EFRA Committee report pick up . I think his analysis and many of his recommendation be sensible . he be very critical of the overly bureaucratic and slow administration of visa , and of the lack of a long - term strategic workforce plan , and he call for urgent action from the Government . perhaps the Minister will tell we when we might expect the Government to respond . I could speak at length about ELMS — almost as long as other have — but I will not . it seem to I that ELMS have leave too many people , particularly in the upland , in a parlous state . although I support the overall goal of that move to public money for public good , I absolutely endorse the Environmental Audit Committee ' s argument that food security be a public good — there be a bit of a discussion with economist about what those term mean . I have be argue for some time that food security should be a public good . we have not mention the problem that tenant farmer face at the moment . will the Minister say a little about when we can expect more response to Baroness Rock ' s report , because they be long overdue ? put all that together and it be pretty clear that we be see a decline in food production , which be disappointing and worrying . staple such as egg and some vegetable be in decline — there be less and less . at the NFU conference the other week , an interesting Farmers Guardian article rather summarise the situation pretty starkly : " UK food production in free fall " . frankly , that be not the position that we want to be in . if that be to change , we must ensure that farm business get a decent return , because they be business , and for too many , the risk - reward ratio be out of kilter at the moment . as we know , that have also hit consumer . the rise in price have slow , which be welcome — they be very high a few year ago — but price be still go up . there be a whole range of reason why that be happen . we also know that too many of our fellow citizen be struggle . the Trussell Trust statistic on the escalate reliance on food bank be deeply shocking . the EFRA Committee report echo that feeling of , " do they feel food secure ? clearly , they do not . " I welcome and agree with the Committee ' s criticism of the fact that the Minister with responsibility for food have claim that the issue of household affordability and access to food do not constitute food security . there be many matter that I would be happy to cover , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I be rush through my remark because I be conscious of time . let I turn briefly to the food chain supply issue , and particularly waste , which be relevant to these discussion . it be pretty clear that pressure in the food chain , such as last - minute change to specification , be lead to economic stress for producer and to disappointing level of waste . one grower tell I that , at well , he sell only about 50 % of the lettuce that he grow . it be particularly depressing that that food be be waste at a time when so many of our fellow citizen be struggle . the NFU report that as much as £ 60 million of food on farm be waste in the first half of 2022 alone . to turn briefly to pesticide , a very interesting set of observation be make by the Chair of the EFRA Committee , the right hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) , and the Chair of the Science and Technology Committee , the right hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) . I would just point to the evidence that be give in the Science and Technology Committee ' s report — the view of the expert on neonicotinoid . once again , for the third year run , they point out that they be not able to support an authorisation for Cruiser SB because " the potential adverse effect to honeybee and other pollinator " outweigh the likely benefit . I be not go to rehearse the entire debate — we have also have debate on Westminster Hall on this issue — but it be clearly a major issue , and the public be clearly concerned . quite frankly , it be time that we stop ignore expert advice . however , I fully understand the problem that farmer face and the serious point that be raise by the Chair of the EFRA Committee . sadly , it look like the weather be not with we again this year , and we be go to see problem from virus yellow . I have be out in the field , look at sugar beet plant with the British Beet Research Organisation , and there be some economic choice here . we might have to move to other variety , but there be a yield penalty . to I , that be the decision and the challenge we face : not just produce food , but produce it in an environmentally sustainable and nature - positive way . as I say , I be not go to go through all the recommendation , but I will just make a few comment . I take very seriously the point make by the right hon . member for Tunbridge Wells about insect decline , and will look very closely at that issue . I have to say , I think the prospect of an invertebrate strategy will be a joy for parliamentary sketch writer , but possibly we can get they beyond that . I also echo the point about the wait for the national action plan on pesticide — it really be unacceptable . I hope the Minister can say something about it , but after a six - year wait , I do not think we be go to be hold our breath . it will not come as a surprise to anyone to hear that Labour agree with the Environmental Audit Committee report about use the Government ' s purchase power to ensure that more food in our hospital and prison be locally produce . that be labour policy , and I think it be also government policy ; the question be whether the Government can actually make it happen . should we get the opportunity , we will endeavour to do so . the land use framework be another thing that we be wait for with bated breath . I have challenge a colleague of the Minister on new way of define the word " soon " , " next " , " spring " or whatever . we really would like to see that framework , but again , if this government can not do it , I hope whoever form the next Government will pick it up . it be a really important point as we deal with the complicated trade - off of try to ensure food security while recover nature and not cause further environmental damage . finally , I will just pick up on the point that Henry Dimbleby make , refer to in the EFRA Committee report . I do not want to reopen the whole debate , but I do not think it be surprising that he say that in his view , the Government do not have anything resemble a proper food strategy , and that one be long overdue . I reiterate my thank for all the hard work that have be do to produce such comprehensive report . I will be refer to they frequently for guidance — I already do so , because they identify some of the most urgent challenge we now face . to I , they be an example of Parliament work at its good , because they can inform not just government think but certainly opposition think too . for we , the goal of deliver food security and stability while optimise social , economic and environmental objective be a priority . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution to today ' s debate , and also thank the chair of the three Select Committees for the valuable work they have do in pull together the report . have be a member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee before take up my ministerial role , I know just how hard all Select Committees work , so I thank they for those report . UK food security , base on supply from diverse source , be a top priority for this Government . we know just how important drive domestic food production be . as have be mention , we produce just over 60 % of the food that we need , and 73 % of the food that we can grow or rear in the UK for all or part of the year . those figure have change little over the past 20 year , but it be worth note that the Government ' s desire be to ensure that our domestic food production be enhance . a strong domestic food production system be the foundation of our food security , which be why we as a Government have commit £ 2 . 4 billion to support food producer . the Farm to Fork summit last year bring together over 70 business with the aim of grow a thriving british food and drink sector . it be hail a great success by many of the stakeholder who attend — the Chairs of the three Select Committees note just how valuable it be — which be why the Prime Minister have announce that we will be hold a further summit this spring . we as a Government take a holistic view of food security , consider it across the five theme set out in the UK food security report . that report be an analysis of the statistic relate to food security that DEFRA be require to produce under the Agriculture Act 2020 to present to Parliament every three year . the report include chapter with statistic on trend in global food production , total population demand , price inflation and sustainability . the global chapter of the UK food security report sit alongside chapter on other key aspect of food security , both domestic and international , to ensure that we be take a holistic approach that consider link across the food system . the first UK food security report be publish in December 2021 , and the next food security report will be publish in December this year . all member , include my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , have recognise just how important those report be , as be the addition of the food security index , which be announce by the Prime Minister at the National Farmers Union conference . in addition to our exist robust process for monitor the UK ' s food security , the food security index will complement the three - yearly food security report . we be currently develop the content of the index , but we expect it to present the key datum and analysis need to monitor how we be maintain and enhance our current level of food security . we will publish the first draft of the food security index during the second UK Farm to fork summit in the spring . the requirement for an annual food security index will be put on a statutory footing when parliamentary time allow . a key challenge , which all country be face , be how we meet our climate and environmental objective while maintain a high level of food security . domestically , the Government have commit to maintain the current level of food that we produce , but we want to enhance it to unleash our domestic potential . this include sustainably boost production in sector in which there be post - brexit opportunity , such as the horticulture and seafood sector . we know that food production and environmental improvement can and must go hand in hand . our environmental land management scheme , which support climate and environmental outcome as well as food production , be absolutely part of that . we have already ensure that our exist environmental scheme support food production . for instance , action in the sustainable farming incentive support the creation of flower - rich buffer , which help pollinator , and that in turn help with crop reduction . the Agriculture Act impose a duty on the Secretary of State to have regard to the need to encourage the production of food by producer in England , and its production in an environmentally sustainable way , when frame any financial assistance scheme . that be why our reform aim to support a highly productive food produce sector , and one that be more environmentally sustainable . many member ask about the land use framework . it will be publish this year , but I want to reiterate that the reason why it have not be publish to date be that the Secretary of State and his ministerial team have be very keen to make sure that it relate to enhance our food production and make sure that food security be at its very core . when we be balance the use of land as a finite resource that be be pull in all different direction — for energy security , biodiversity offsetting , net zero target , housing , infrastructure — we need to make sure that food security be consider at the heart of it . many member , include the Chairs of the Select Committees , refer to pesticide , which play an important role in UK food security . the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee ' s report , " insect decline and UK food security " , state that there be a consensus among key industry stakeholder , academic , charity and farming representative that " pesticide , even if only use as a last resort , be need for UK food production . " however , it note that they must be use sustainably , and the Government ' s first priority on pesticide be to ensure that they will not harm people or impose unacceptable risk to the environment . a pesticide may only be place on the market in Great Britain if a product have be authorise by the regulator , the Health and Safety Executive , follow a thorough scientific risk assessment that conclude that all safety standard have be meet . reference have be make to the national action plan on the sustainable use of pesticide . it will set out DEFRA ' s ambition to minimise the risk and impact of pesticide on human health and the environment , include how we intend to increase the uptake of integrated p management across all sector . we hope to publish that national action plan imminently . however , we have not wait for its publication , and we have be move forward with work to support sustainable p management , and DEFRA have fund a package of research project that bring together scientific evidence underpin integrate p management . we look at way of far encourage its uptake . I be encourage by the imminence of the publication of the action plan . can the Minister confirm that " imminently " will mean that it will meet the recommendation of my Committee ' s report , to which he refer , which echo the report of the Environmental Audit Committee , chair by my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , that it should be by May at the late ? I thank the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee for his intervention . I reassure he that official be work at pace , base on the recommendation of all the Select Committee Chairs , to ensure that we can get the announcement make as soon as possible . I want to reassure he on that . pollinator be raise , and we know that bee and other pollinator play an essential role in our £ 100 billion food industry . the economic benefit of insect pollination to UK agriculture be estimate at more than £ 500 million a year . I reassure all member of the House that we have already take action . we have announce 20 new nature - base solution across the country , fund by a £ 25 million specie survival fund , and that be in addition to the 12 nature recovery project and 54 further project that we have fund through the landscape recovery scheme . under the pollinator strategy , we have already establish a world - lead pollinator monitor scheme for farmland that deliver food and fuel for pollinator . many point have be make throughout this debate , and I simply do not have time to respond to all of they , but I be happy to meet member who have raise query throughout the debate . in closing , in the last few second that I have , I reiterate that the UK have strong food security , and we be keen to enhance that . we be not take that for grant . we be work across the supply chain to maintain and enhance food security across multiple policy area , but it be worry that Labour want to roll out the blueprint it have establish in Wales across the UK , should it get to power . I worry for farmer , and I worry how seriously Labour be take food security , give that not one Labour Back Bencher contribute to such an important debate on food security . I thank all member who have contribute to today ' s debate , include the Chairs of the Select Committees , my right hon . friend the Members for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) , for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) and for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , who have make their valuable contribution . I be grateful to the Minister and all who have speak for their warm word about the work of my right hon . friend the Members for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) and for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) from the other Select Committees , and the work that all member of Select Committees put into these report . I share the Minister ' s concern that not a single Back Bencher from any Opposition party contribute to this debate . all the contribution come from those on the Government Benches , but I welcome the remark make by the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Coatbridge , Chryston and Bellshill ( Steven Bonnar ) and the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , who both seem to take food security seriously . we will have to see how that be convert into any action . on the subject on action , I be relieve that the Minister seek to introduce some new definition to parliamentary terminology . I have not hear a Minister use the expression " imminently " before . the expression " soon " , " in the spring " and " when parliamentary time allow " be well recognise expression for general delay and obfuscation , but I hope that " imminently " bring a new urgency . he also refer to his official work " at pace " , so we look forward to that . I conclude by congratulate and thank conservative Back Benchers for their contribution , in particular my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , who , as a former Secretary of State , bring particular expertise to her contribution . she point out that we should not be look to Wales as a blueprint for future food security , give the devastating impact that the proposal of the Welsh Government be have on farm income and food production . my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) speak about the importance of the effective border control for phytosanitary requirement , as we rely on both import and export for food business and food security in this country . my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) bring his considerable expertise in animal health to the deliberation . I rather apologise for have personalise my intervention , but he be able to speak with considerable authority on the challenge of animal health . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) be refer to the challenge of waste in the food supply chain . she make important comment on that , which I hope we will see turn into action with the waste food report , whether that be " imminent " , " soon " or " in the spring " . again , I thank all member for participate in this debate . I shall put the question imminently , or indeed shortly , if not now . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of food security , include the effect on it of environmental change and of insect decline . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present this petition on the recommendation of the infected blood inquiry , owe to this Government ' s failure to provide justice or compensation to those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . victim of this scandal and their family have be subject to unimaginable trauma during their search for justice , and for many of they time be run out . there can be no more delay . step must be take to establish a final body to pay compensation urgently . the petition state : " the petition of resident of the constituency of Nottingham South , declare that people who have receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain etc . " [ p002933 ] trailer and Towing Safety Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) it have be a decade since a child be kill in my constituency by a runaway trailer . Freddie be just three year old . a 2 - tonne trailer come loose from a nearby car as he walk down the street near his home . the consequence of the unsecured tow hitch be fatal . shortly after I become an MP , I meet Freddie ' s parent , in 2016 . since then I have campaign to improve tow safety standard . I be grateful tonight to have the chance to focus the mind of the current Minister on this important topic , and I thank he for talk with I . sadly , not enough have be do over the past three year to ensure that our road be safe for trailer . back in 2016 , when I first meet the family , they have research previous case and learn that there be other family like theirs . this be not a one - off , and it could have be prevent if well safety check have be in place . one example that come to light be the death of a four - year - old boy kill by a trailer that have break free from a car in the Amber Valley constituency in 2007 . the then Minister , the former Member for Poplar and Limehouse , comment at that time : " introduce mot - style test for such trailer be a possibility that we have consider before , and it be a matter that we keep under review . there have be several such accident in recent month , and I will certainly consider the matter with official in the Department to see whether we need to move on that " . — [ Official Report , 22 January 2008 ; Vol . 470 , c . 1354 . ] the Road Traffic Act 1988 state that it be an offence to drive an unroadworthy vehicle , and we know that there be many trailer on our road that be dangerous and in need of repair . we need to do so much more to stop further tragedy from happen . since 2015 , I have meet many road safety Ministers , and I put on the record my thank to the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Andrew Jones ) , the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) and the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) for their time and support in look at this issue and work with I and the family . I also thank the current Minister ' s predecessor , Baroness Vere of Norbiton and the right hon . member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , who have report to the all - party parliamentary group on trailer and tow safety , which I chair . in those year there have be many success in the campaign . I hold two trailer safety summit — in March 2017 and April 2018 — in Bedminster , where the accident happen , involve Freddie ' s family and key stakeholder . in July 2017 the National Trailer and Towing Association introduce the free safety check initiative — the first of its kind in the UK — which mean that , through its network of accredited member , any light trailer could be give a free 10 to 15 - minute visual inspection of key point , and a write report complete . the campaign have also work with the Department for Transport and the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency on a campaign on driver behaviour and the creation of the hashtag # towsafe4freddie . that bring together vital information about tow safely and have hugely increase awareness of the issue among driver . follow my amendment to the Haulage Permits and Trailer Registration Bill in 2018 , the Government have to undertake a statutory report into trailer safety , which be publish in July 2019 . that be a huge milestone in the campaign . the finding of the Government ' s report reinforce the urgency of the issue . as part of the action of the report , the DVSA conduct roadside check of light trailer between 2019 and 2021 . I be able to join such a roadside check near Bristol . from the report , we know the horrifying fact that half of all light trailer be non - compliant with safety standard . I be deeply shocked and concerned to learn that 40 % of those vehicle be so dangerous that they need immediate repair . when people think of tow , they often think of caravans , but we know from the datum that caravan and responsible commercial company be not the issue ; it be personal light trailer that contribute to these shocking statistic . the Government know that a disgraceful number of vehicle on our road be deeply unsafe — their own statutory report tell they that — so why have they fail to act on that information or to progress the work from the report that they say they would do ? follow the statutory report in 2019 , the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North , then Minister of State at the Department for Transport , say that a " focus must be maintain on drive up the safety of these trailer . " — [ Official Report , 18 July 2019 ; Vol . 663 , c . 62WS . ] that be absolutely imperative . my ask of the Minister be that trailer safety be put at the forefront of the agenda once more . that be because trailer safety be a key part of safety on our road . the potentially deadly consequence of unsecure trailer demonstrate the need for mandatory safety check on trailer and formal testing for those use they . the statutory report make the case for that clearly : it recommend consider " revision and improvement " to the test that driver use to undertake in order to hold a licence to tow light vehicle — the so - call b + e test . with one in two light vehicle on our road unroadworthy , that knowledge and training be paramount . as the former Minister state in 2019 , in his response to the report " there be further work in this area which the Government will take forward . " — [ Official Report , 18 July 2019 ; Vol . 663 , c . 62WS . ] that be set out in a work programme from the statutory report . those be action that I and the APPG , work closely with industry , official in the Department and Ministers , be happy to see progress . I thank all those official for the work they do . yet follow the 2019 election , we have have a complete u - turn . I be appal and horrify when in 2021 the Government introduce a statutory instrument that scrap the towing test altogether , mean that any driver with a standard b driving licence could tow without further instruction on how to do so safely . this be a reckless decision with potentially dangerous consequence . accord to Department for Transport datum , 30 % of people who have be train and test fail , yet we be now unleash thousand of untrained , unsafe and unqualified driver of trailer on to our road . I congratulate my hon . friend on her dogged pursuit of this issue . I wonder whether , know the appalling state of many of our road in this country — order . I be afraid we have to go through the technical nicety of the Whip move the Adjournment again . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) that take I by surprise . I be wonder whether the state of our road , which many people be aware of , add to the danger pose by the issue with trailer and driver awareness that she have set out . my hon . friend make an excellent point . yes , if the trailer be not tow safely , any damage in the road — road bump , pothole and so on — will add to the stress on trailer . that could have more lethal consequence . the Government ' s own impact assessment , which be not release until after the statutory instrument have pass , state that this legislation could " have implication for competence of driver to tow trailer safely " and " may potentially increase the road safety risk " . that be deeply worry not only for those who have lose love one through unsafe towing , but for those in the wide industry , many of whom contact I to share their anxiety . the public have no idea that so many defective vehicle be on our road , and now the Government have scrap the mandatory training that would have help driver to understand the importance of safety check on their vehicle . we have evidence that trailer safety be a serious problem , yet the legislation be deem " fit for purpose " . the only consolation be that it would be review after three year , which will be at the end of this year . two - and - a - half year into this outrageous piece of legislation , I hope that the Minister have a good understanding now of its impact on road safety , and I would welcome an update from he . between 2019 and 2021 , 50 % of light trailer be defective . can the Minister confirm whether that statistic have change ? what recent datum do he hold on defective vehicle ? he need to explain what datum will be use to assess the impact of the instrument as part of the review and how this data be be collect . the impact assessment state that the overall accident rate would have to rise by an average of 14 % per year to negate all the benefit of the legislation . I wonder whether the Minister think that a 14 % increase in accident be acceptable . how many people could lose their life or be seriously injure because of this legislation ? surely we should be try to make our road safe , with driver support and inform to take all the safety measure they need . there be some who point to the voluntary accreditation scheme for driver wish to tow . that information be available to the proactive , responsible driver who seek it , but the clue be in the name : it be voluntary . the number of driver undergo training have fall through the floor . department for Transport datum show that from over 29 , 000 people in one year take the mandatory b + e test , we now have few than 500 take up the voluntary scheme in the 18 month since it be introduce — a drop of 98 % . that be an astonishing percentage . the very real consequence of that be more unsafe trailer on our road . what measure be the Minister take to increase the number of people access the voluntary training ? what be the Minister do to ensure that those who use our road be train to tow and understand the danger of unsafe towing ? we need a coherent plan for our road that recognise the importance of trailer safety . I welcome the Minister ' s thought on how we can re - embed the finding and action of the 2019 statutory report on trailer safety into the current road strategy . I have very much enjoy work collaboratively with Ministers to improve trailer safety . over the past five year , the all - party parliamentary group on trailer and tow safety have work steadfastly with the Department for Transport to gather datum and information . I hope we can take this moment to refresh that relationship and work together to ensure the safety of all who use our road . gather more and well information on the safety of trailer and the skill of those tow they be crucial . it be through the datum that we uncover the scale of the problem in the first place , and it will be through gather new datum that we can pave the way for improvement in the future . do the Minister agree that this be of the utmost importance ? if so , when and how be he plan to collect that new datum ? as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on trailer and tow safety , I thank all of my colleague who have support and publicise the issue in this place over the past six year . I thank those stakeholder in the towing industry who have do all they can to improve trailer safety — in particular , the contribution of the National Caravan Council and the work of Alicia Dunne at the council have be hugely valuable . those work in the industry know how important it be to improve trailer safety . their work in raise awareness and improve driver behaviour and knowledge have be crucial . finally , I pay tribute to the incredible bravery of Freddie ' s family . I thank they for all they have do to shine a light on this issue and to educate I . if the Minister take away one thing from today ' s debate , I hope that he will remember the life behind the statistic . family across the country have be impact by poor and ill - thought - out legislation — I know that the Minister do not bring the legislation to the House . improve trailer safety save life , and I hope he agree that we must do all we can to enable driver to tow safely . it be an honour and a privilege to respond to the hon . Lady ' s thoughtful , heartfelt and impressive speech on an issue that she clearly care passionately about . she have do herself great credit not just tonight but throughout the long campaign she have wage . I pay massive tribute to she . there be much criticism in this place of all - party group , but she have provide an example of one that have champion a cause and bring about significant change . it also ensure that its importance to both the family concern and the wide industry be hear , champion and hopefully act upon . I want to put that first point on the record . it be patently clear from the hon . Lady ' s speech that she care passionately about this issue . like many constituency mp , she be motivated , sadly , by the learn experience of a constituent . I , too , pay due tribute to the Hussey family , who clearly have be through a terrible ordeal and have resolve that good should come out of the tragedy that sadly they have undergo . I pass on my condolence . the hon . Lady ' s last comment be entirely right . it be important that in this House , in whatever position , we remember the live experience of the people who suffer injury and difficulty , in relation to road safety and all other accident , up and down the country . whatever the circumstance , whether it be their fault or otherwise , we must be sensitive to that . none of we have be unaffected by tragedy in our life . we should remember and be empathetic to that at all stage . I want to put some point on the record , but I want to cut to the chase on one particular point . I will go through the journey of how we get to where we be in a bit of detail . there will be a three - year review , follow the passage of the legislation on 8 November 2021 . it be important to understand that , normally , a government do not review legislation before five year . she know because she speak in the debate — I read her comment in the debate on the regulation , to which my hon . friend the Member for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) respond , fairly late at night on 8 November — that the legislation arise out of covid . it be a decision make in the circumstance to address the HGV driver shortage . it be accept that there be a need for a review — that be write in . the reason that this debate be particularly apposite be simply that the process have begin . this debate and the hon . Lady ' s comment bring force to the particular point . I want to assure she that she , her APPG , the individual family and the very worthy organisation that have assist she will have an opportunity to make representation . they can be make in two way . they can be write representation to the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency . with all matter government , the Government be responsible for everything . however , in this particular case , she know that it be an arm ' s length body , the DVSA , which run the process . I have two official in the Box today who be in charge of that process and I speak to they beforehand . we most definitely can assure she and interested party that evidence can be submit in writing or in person . we be very happy for the DVSA to sit down with her APPG in the summer month , when we return to the House , and listen and take on representation by any individual in any way . if that need to be do by way of a personal visit , we will do our good to accommodate that in the usual way without necessarily go all over the country , as she will understand . my point be that we acknowledge and accept that a review need to be do . I want to stress that all option be available to that review . often , minister respond to that by say , " well , I can ' t comment on the process of the review . " to a certain extent , I be a bit limited in how I can approach it . self - evidently , a Minister , whether before or after the general election , will have to make a decision on the recommendation of the DVSA , but a review will unquestionably take place . I have make it very clear to the DVSA that that will need to be publish within three year of the date of the passage of the legislation , which as I understand it be 8 November . that be the timeframe . this be the evidence - gather period . with respect , I hope that be the key point that arise . turn to a few particular point arise from the debate , it be not always that case that appg have such a close relationship with an arm ' s length body which be not part of the Government but also slightly part of Government . what be very clear be that the DVSA and the hon . Lady ' s APPG have a very close relationship . I read its submission on 27 February , by way of a write update , to the APPG . it be pretty detailed . I know that they meet last year . I would like to think that that will continue apace . the hon . Lady go through the history in quite a lot of detail . it be obviously the case that in 2018 we make it an offence to tow an unroadworthy trailer and strengthen the penalty . there be roadside vehicle check to monitor compliance . I attempt to find out exactly how many people be do the check on an ongoing basis . I can not give a definitive day - by - day figure , but it be clearly a significant number of people . I will ensure that , as part of the review , that be set out in detail , because it be right and proper that the public know that a taxpayer - fund , arm ' s length body be spend an appropriate amount of time do those check . I have read the submission make in detail to the APPG in February . I stand by every part of that , and I do not think that there be any point I would wish to amplify . on the most recent statistic , the timing be not brilliant because the 2023 - 24 trailer safety survey , with the enforcement stat , effectively conclude on 31 March . we will know the annual figure at the end of this month , but it will be available and appropriate for the review . on the reason behind the removal of the B test , it be unquestionably the case that that be one of the 33 measure put in place to address the heavy good vehicle driver shortage . the Department for Transport and the arm ' s length body be consider a number of different action as a result of what be , quite clearly , a fairly speedy piece of legislation to address a moment of great critical importance . the hon . Lady be clearly aware of the change and what it allow , and of the industry - lead accredited training scheme , so I will not repeat what she have already say in her speech . as she rightly point out , the take - up of the training have not be as we would have like it to be , and that obviously need to be address . the DVSA be committed to support the scheme by seek further opportunity to promote the accredited training route — increase awareness of the benefit of do so , send clear message about the importance of safety , and generally do everything possible in a host of way , range from social medium to instruction to organisation — in order to enhance and increase both training uptake and safe tow practice . the hon . Lady be also aware of the two survey that have be conduct , the first in February 2023 and the second in June of that year . the DVSA engage in extensive work with the Trailer Training Advisory Group to devise the question and topic for the second survey , and to consider the result . it receive 1 , 000 response — a significant number — and promote its finding during the National Trailer and Towing Association ' s Trailer Safety Week in June 2023 . the hon . Lady rightly speak of the effort that will be necessary in the future . follow the accumulation of evidence , the DVSA have identify target group for the purpose of its communication , with leisure user the main target audience for the current year . as we approach the towing season , it will engage the caravan and leisure industry ; indeed , that process have already begin , because Easter be not far away . I be grateful to the Minister for his diligence and his respect for this issue , and for examine the history behind it . I look forward to work with he far and take up his offer to follow it through with his official . I be glad that that be in train , and that a bit more light be be shine on the issue . I think that this will give some reassurance to people follow the debate , and I look forward to be part of it . I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . I want to emphasise that this be a constructive process . it be in all our interest to ensure that it have the assurance and understanding of the House , and that the appropriate balance be strike between legislation and any freedom that may or may not be enjoy . let I say a little about the extent of the instruction and advice . the DVSA will explore way of target people at various point in the tow journey — I do not think that that be quite how it should have be phrase — include the point of sale of a trailer or caravan , whether it be new or second - hand ; obviously acquisition be a key factor . there will be intervention at various stage of journey and at destination . the purpose be to ensure that safety consideration be at the forefront of driver ' mind at crucial point in their journey . we have the opportunity this year to address these issue and to reach a view on what be the appropriate way forward , but I believe that the appropriate way forward be for the independent arm ' s length body to go away and do its work , take on as much evidence as it see fit but start with an open mind , look at all aspect of the process . that will include safety , and all the benefit and burden stem from the legislation that I mention early . I commit myself to build on the progress that have be make , but also to continue to examine the policy closely , gather the datum and ensure that message be communicate effectively to reach the right audience . I thank the hon . Lady again for initiate the debate . I endorse her comment on previous occupant of my post who have work constructively with she and with the all - party parliamentary group , and I commend this debate to the House . question put and agree to . House adjourn .