business before Questions Bishop ' s Stortford Cemetery Bill [ Lords ] Bill read the third time and pass , with amendment . oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Minister of State be ask — Humanitarian Situation in Gaza what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . if he will resume funding of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East . we be do all we can to increase aid into Gaza . with our ally , we will take decision on the future of UNRWA funding after scrutinise Catherine Colonna ' s interim report on UNRWA neutrality . we have hear this morning some shocking report about palestinian medical staff in Gaza be blindfold , detain , force to strip and repeatedly beat by israeli troop , after a raid on Nasser Hospital last month . there be footage from Khan Yunis show man strip and kneeling , and patient with their hand bind be wheel in bed . do the UK Government believe that the israeli Government be responsible for the conduct of their force , and that this clearly appear to be torture and be in breach of international law , include the universal declaration of human right and article 18 of the Geneva convention ? what be the UK Government go to do about this ? the hon . Lady be right to say that Israel must comply with the Geneva convention . we have see these report . a full explanation and investigation be require , and that be what the british Government be press for . I point out to she that , when it come to target operation , lawyer be embed in the israeli and Israel Defence Forces command , just as happen in Britain , which should ensure the acceptance and honouring of international humanitarian law . but I agree that a full explanation be require . for month we have see the horrifying image of child in Gaza mutilate or kill by bombing , and now we see they starve . aid by air and sea be welcome , but it be insufficient and it be a diversion from Israel ' s responsibility . yesterday , 12 israeli human right organisation call out their own Government for fail to comply with the International Court of Justice rule to facilitate access for humanitarian aid . do the Minister agree that the israeli Government should be tell by the UK and our ally to unlock aid and end the killing , or face real consequence ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have both press Prime Minister Netanyahu , and indeed President Herzog , to ensure that more aid can get into Gaza . as the hon . Gentleman will also know , it be the policy of the British Government to do everything we can to achieve a pause so that we can get the hostage out and get more aid in , and move towards a sustainable ceasefire . we be do everything we can to try to achieve that . what we be see in Gaza be a starvation - level event . the United States have take the desperate measure of air drop and flotilla , which do not direct aid like land - base aid . the only organisation big enough to fully distribute aid in order to avoid starvation be UNRWA . Canada review the interim report of the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services and have resume funding . Sweden have receive bilateral assurance on the same action that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be supposedly look for from UNRWA and have resume funding . it be scandalous that the UK Government ' s position be still for a suspension of fund , despite the interim report and without evidence of wrongdoing be provide by Israeli in the first place . the british public do not want to be responsible for starvation in Gaza . when will the Minister resume the funding ? as I have tell the House before , no british funding be due until April and enough fund have now come forward to ensure that adequate supply be available . we be await the report of the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services and the interim report from Catherine Colonna , the former french Foreign Minister . the view we take be that when we have see those , we very much hope we will have the reassurance to recommence funding . that be also the position of the US , Germany , Australia , Italy , Finland , the Netherlands and Switzerland . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will be comfort by the fact that we be very much try to resolve this matter as speedily as we can . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the Foreign Affairs Committee recently return from al - Arish , which be the staging point for aid into Gaza . it be very difficult to see thousand of truck on that border . the Government have be clear that Israel have a legal obligation to ensure that aid reach civilian . the last legal assessment take place at the end of last year . can my right hon . Friend tell the House , in legal term , whether Israel be demonstrate a commitment to international humanitarian law ? if he will not tell we in the House , will he please write to I ? I thank my hon . friend for her visit with the Select Committee and for her comment . we be quite clear that Israel have the capacity and ability to abide by international humanitarian law . we review it on a regular basis , but as of today that remain the position . the UN mission team that recently visit Israel conclude that " there be reasonable ground to believe that conflict - relate sexual violence occur in multiple location during the 7 October attack " . in the light of that appalling and shocking conclusion , will the Government redouble their effort to get the hostage home , because they might be suffer a similar fate to those victim on 7 October ? I agree with my right hon . friend . she will know that the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and Lord Ahmad have all meet the family of the hostage . I have the privilege of meet some of the family last week , the second occasion I have do so within the precinct of this House . she be right . we be do everything we can to increase the flow of aid and get the hostage home . we will continue to do so . one of the most troubling aspect of the 7 October massacre be the fact that many ordinary Gazans — report indicate hundred , or even thousand — follow the Hamas terrorist into Israel and participate in the atrocity . report suggest that civilian kidnap Israelis and sell they to Gaza - base terrorist group , and commit far unspeakable act of violence , include sexual violence . be my right hon . friend aware of those report , and do he share my concern about Hamas ' s ongoing indoctrination of ordinary Gazan citizen ? my hon . friend make a good point . I be aware of those report . the fact remain that the appalling event of 7 October be , as I have say in the House before , the bad atrocity and the bad killing of jewish people since the holocaust and the second world war . we continue to want total accountability for the terrible event that take place on that day . accept what the Minister say about there be no money due to go to UNRWA until April , can I say to he , however , that for we to continue not to fund UNRWA send a truly dreadful signal to other country on the world stage ? Canada and Sweden have resume their funding . surely we should be attend to this now as a matter of some urgency ? I list the country that take the same view as we . the right hon . Gentleman be right that there be a division , but Britain be not due to provide any funding until we reach the next financial year in April . we will , of course , seek to do everything we can to resolve the matter by the time that funding be due . can the deputy Foreign Secretary confirm that Israel be co - operate with an increase number of lorry enter Gaza carry essential humanitarian aid ? I have be look up the figure : 16 , 405 aid lorry , 203 , 300 tonne of food and 26 , 160 tonne of water . be it not correct that the Israelis have say there be no limit on the amount of aid that can come in , but that there be a delay once it have pass israeli check and before it get into Gaza proper ? my right hon . and learn Friend be right to say that there have be an increase in the number of truck get in . in February there be , on average , only 97 . in March that figure be 162 . so there have be an improvement , but the House will recognise that there be nothing like enough get through . the easy way to do so be by truck and road . it be because that be so difficult that we have have to find other mechanism , such as the maritime and air route . I call the shadow Minister . may I return the Minister to the serious allegation make today , follow a BBC investigation , that medic in Gaza be detain , strip and beat while try to perform their life - save humanitarian duty ? all of we in the House have repeatedly call on all party to abide by international law , but the Government have so far decline to say that the provisional measure of the International Court of Justice should be implement in full . will he now tell we that they should be , and that the UK will support the International Criminal Court investigation , lead by Andrew Cayley , to ensure not only that all allegation against all party be investigate , but that there be accountability for those who break the law ? the hon . Lady be quite right : there need to be a full and thorough investigation and accountability in respect of what be report today by the BBC , and I can assure she that the Foreign Office be press for full transparency and accountability on that matter . but surely the Minister can see the problem . unless the ICJ ' s provisional ruling be implement and the ICC be allow to go about its work , those word be simply meaningless ; and unless the international community make it crystal clear that rule will be uphold by all party and those who do not uphold they will be hold accountable , more people will die . peace be build on the bedrock of international law . may I ask the Minister again to make it clear to the House that the Government will support the ICC ' s investigation of Hamas as well as its investigation of Israel and will press for the full implementation of the ICJ ' s provisional ruling , and that international law will be uphold not when it be convenient but always , as the precondition for peace ? let I be very clear about this : we do not believe , and do not believe , that the ICJ referral be helpful to attempt to secure dialogue . we respect the role and independence of the ICJ and will consider any advisory opinion , but we do not think it helpful , without the consent of both party , for the Court to deliver an advisory opinion on what be essentially a bilateral dispute . however , we keep all these matter under review and , as I have say , our current position be that we believe Israel have both the capacity and the intent to abide by international humanitarian law . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Minister will have see the shocking image of parachute drop aid into Gaza at the same moment as a barrage of israeli missile strike . there be , of course , every chance that the aid and the missile originate from the same source , and I wonder at the level of cognitive dissonance require to supply aid to innocent civilian while at the same time provide the mean by which Israel can continue to kill they indiscriminately . when will this Government recognise the moral absurdity of sell weapon to Israel while attempt to salve their conscience by airdrop aid to those civilian who be fortunate enough to have survive the bombardment ? as I think I have mention to the hon . Gentleman before , in this country we have the tough arm control mechanism anywhere , but we accept that Israel have a right of self - defence , and this have to be see through that prism as well as the prism through which he see it . but I can tell he that we continually keep these matter under review — that be not only international humanitarian law , but the arm export regime — and we will continue to do so . Israel and Palestine : two - state solution what step his Department be take to support a two - state solution between Israel and Palestine . we must generate momentum towards a permanent peace , with an immediate humanitarian pause lead to a sustainable ceasefire . I thank the Minister for his comment . everyone in the House want to see a negotiate diplomatic agreement to resolve the israeli - palestinian conflict , base on two state , but do he agree that the first step towards achieve that be an immediate humanitarian ceasefire and the release of all hostage ? the problem with call for an immediate ceasefire be that neither side want to have one , and therefore , in my view , it would be an unhelpful intervention . that be why the British Government , and other government too , have call for a pause to get the hostage out and get aid in , which can then be build on and lead to a sustainable ceasefire , and that be what we be seek to do . the ideal of a two - state solution be one that unite this House . however , there be practical barrier , not least the fact that Hamas be surge in the poll — what poll there be — across the Palestinian Authority , and the Palestinian Authority continue to have hateful preaching in the school curriculum that be breed the sort of hate that lead to evil organisation such as Hamas have a grip on Gaza , and it continue to pay salary to convict terrorist ' family . if we be to get a two - state solution , that need to stop , do it not ? in respect of the textbook allegation that my hon . Friend make , I have receive those allegation . last week I have a meeting with the head of UNRWA , Mr Lazzarini , in which I present he with the evidence and ask for a full account . in respect of the two - state solution , let I be clear that within both the israeli Government and civil society throughout Israel , there be pragmatic voice that believe in self - determination for Palestine as the only way forward . it be very important that we try to build on that vision , which be why the Foreign Secretary be so committed to try to bring people together so that when the political track can open , it have real substance to it . do the Minister agree that a two - state solution have become more difficult because of the construction of over 700 , 000 illegal home in the west bank , which continue with the backing of the IDF and the israeli Government ? even now , we see image of people be turf out of their home and other take over , and illegal settlement home be be sell to people in the USA . there be thing that we want the israeli Government to do in that respect . we want they to release frozen fund , halt settlement expansion and hold to account those responsible for settler violence , which be why Britain have sanction four extremist israeli settler . let I be clear : as I understand it , the israeli Government be not against palestinian statehood but be against unilateral recognition without bilateral negotiation . that be the burden of a vote in the Knesset on 18 February this year . the wide discussion of a two - state solution outside this place be be misrepresent . restaurant be be boycott for sell Coca - Cola , because people think the company support Israel . the Coca - Cola factory in the west bank be actually own by a palestinian franchisee , so we need to educate people . to get back to the discussion of a two - state solution , we clearly need a ceasefire and the hostage to be release by Hamas . will my right hon . friend detail what discussion he be have in that regard ? those discussion be go on all the time with our friend and ally , with the regional power , at the United Nations and , indeed , directly with Israel . as I say , the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary talk regularly to Prime Minister Netanyahu , and we will continue to do so . my hon . friend eloquently set out the reason for the Government ' s policy of try to create a pause to get the hostage out and aid in , and we will continue to pursue that objective . I call shadow Minister . the situation in Gaza be truly appalling , but the situation in the west bank be also a cause for huge concern . since the horrific 7 October attack , over 400 Palestinians have be kill and thousand have be detain . far to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Bolton South East ( Yasmin Qureshi ) , last week Israel advance plan for 3 , 400 new home in the occupied Palestinian Territories . as a two - state solution be the only path to a last peace , do the Minister agree that a firm position on these issue must be take now by the United Kingdom and the international community ? I hope that I have set out my broad agreement with what the hon . Gentleman say . Britain want to see step take against illegal settlement and settler who have commit crime — we want to see they arrest , try and punish for those crime . we want to see the Palestinian Authority reinvigorate , with new leadership and a strong approach to take up the role that it will need to fulfil when the sky clear and there be a moment for the political track to begin . Gaza : sustainable Ceasefire what assessment he have make of the step need to secure a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza . what assessment he have make of the step need to secure a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza . what discussion he have have with his US counterpart on a potential UN Security Council resolution on a ceasefire in Gaza . we need a humanitarian pause to get aid in and hostage out , lead to a sustainable , permanent ceasefire . we be press for this with Israel , regional leader and our wide international partner , include the United States . give the importance of their role , the Palestinian Authority will require thoroughgoe reform , win ' t they ? my right hon . friend be right , and that be why both the Foreign Secretary and the noble Lord Ahmad have be in discussion with the Palestinian Authority and the wide regional community — to try to ensure that when the moment come , as I set out in my response to the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) , the Palestinian Authority be able to seize it . do my right hon . friend agree that an unsustainable ceasefire that rapidly collapse would only make it more difficult to build the confidence require for peace , and that if there be a humanitarian pause now , we could get more aid in and hostage out , and it could help to bring about the condition require for a sustainable ceasefire ? my hon . friend have put his finger on a critical point . we do not believe that call for a general and immediate ceasefire and hope that it would somehow become permanent will work . a ceasefire will not last if the hostage be still be hold . we can not just will it if neither side want it , and the condition need to be in place for it not to collapse within day . some of these answer — " we have the tough arm licence regime " , " we have urge Israel to follow international law " — be the same meaningless , supine nonsense week after week , month after month from this Government . I have say many time that it sicken I that although this government — and indeed the Labour Front Benchers — call out Putin ' s war crime in Ukraine at light speed , they prevaricate on do the same when it come to the israeli bombardment and siege of Gaza . it sicken I that this Government have abstain on UN Security Council ceasefire resolution . will the Minister guarantee that the UK will work with partner to draft a resolution that reflect the will of this House , and finally vote for a ceasefire to end the suffering of so many in Gaza ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , which I think be the question , the answer be yes , but in respect of everything else he say , the answer be no . woman in Gaza be give birth without even have a chair to sit down on . they be have caesarean without medication . the Minister will know that many aid agency have repeatedly call out the horrific suffering of the palestinian people and Israel ' s unacceptable restriction on aid flow . we have be talk about the urgency of an immediate humanitarian ceasefire ; how urgently be the Government actually push for this with both side and with partner in the middle east — not just for the urgency of the ceasefire , but for a plan for what come next ? I can reassure the hon . Lady that on both of those two point — press for a pause and press all the regional power on what come next — the Government be actively and continually engage . on her first point about the terrible plight of woman in Gaza , that be why the british Government give nearly £ 5 million just a week or so ago specifically to try to alleviate the desperate circumstance in Gaza that so many woman find themselves in . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson , Alyn Smith . the good way to deal with a sustainable ceasefire be obviously to deal with the ongoing humanitarian crisis , and that be well do by UNRWA , not through individual bilateral action . the Minister mention state that have suspend their funding , and the situation be evolve really fast . the EU have just announce € 50 million for UNRWA , and two further tranche of € 16 million , subject to the satisfactory completion of an audit . I take the point that no funding be due from the UK to UNRWA until April , but what further reassurance do the UK need to ensure the funding will be in place , because UNRWA be the good organisation to disburse it and the UK risk be very much on the wrong side of these development ? I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s last point . it be true that Canada , Sweden , Spain and the EU , with condition , expect to be able to resume funding , but as I mention early , America , Germany , Australia , Italy , Finland , the Netherlands and Switzerland take the same view as we . to the substantive point he make , we be in discussion with the leader of UNRWA , Mr Lazzarini , and we be await the report from the former french Foreign Minister and the report from the UN . we hope that as a result of those report , sufficient change will be secure , so that we can continue to fund UNRWA , but the hon . Gentleman should be in no doubt that we have fully fund UNRWA into the next financial year . Illegal Migration what diplomatic step his Department be take to help tackle illegal migration . we be engage with international partner on a " whole of route " approach to address irregular migration . this include : a multi - year operational plan with France to stop small boat ; develop partnership to tackle organise immigration crime ; improve return process ; and work with partner country through a number of international fora to address the root cause . small boat crossing continue to be a massive concern for my constituent , many of whom point out to I that there be some logic to the argument that if those who illegally enter our country from France , a safe european country , be return on the same day , the problem would probably be deal with overnight . have my right hon . Friend discuss this with her french counterpart , and be her counterpart open to this undeniable logic ? if so , why do France not accept they back on the same day ? my hon . friend raise a point that be raise in many of our postbag . the reality be that individual in need of international protection should claim asylum in the first safe country they reach ; that will always be the fast route to safety . we , of course , continue to work collaboratively with our european partner , include France , to address our share migration challenge . I can update the House that our partnership with France have help to bring down small boat arrival , and together we stop more than 26 , 000 crossing last year . I thank the Minister for her response . we in Northern Ireland have a border with the Republic of Ireland . what discussion have she have with her counterpart in the devolved nation , and particularly in the Northern Ireland Assembly and the Police Service of Northern Ireland , about tackle illegal migration ? I be ever mindful that we have a land border that need to be patrol and police . as I say , we continue to engage across a number of international fora to strengthen our collaboration , and to make sure that we have secure and ambitious partnership to tackle irregular migration . I will ensure that my colleague update the hon . gentleman on the meeting they have be have with the psni . Ukraine what recent discussion he have have with his german counterpart on the war in Ukraine . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary and I regularly speak to our ministerial counterpart on a range of issue , include the war in Ukraine . he meet Foreign Minister Baerbock at the UK - german strategic dialogue on 7 March in Berlin to reaffirm our commitment to support Ukraine . I thank my hon . friend for his answer . he will be aware that the head of the luftwaffe , Lieutenant General Ingo Gerhartz , make an appalling lapse of security . the former director general of german intelligence , August Hanning , say on the subject that NATO security and british troop have have their existence in Ukraine " compromise . " do the Minister agree ? I appreciate my hon . friend ' s motivation in ask that question . we should keep in mind that our relationship with Germany on support Ukraine be strong , united and deeply co - operative . together we be deliver the fighting edge that our friend in Ukraine need . one of the thing that rang in my ear after my recent visit to Ukraine be the frustration with what be happen not just in the US , but even in those european country — Germany , the UK , France and other — that be a " yes " on weapon support . it be the slow yes that be frustrating people . what be the Minister do to turn that slow yes to Taurus into a quick yes ? more broadly , do that not make the case for a comprehensive defence agreement between Britain and the EU ? no , it do not , but we continue to work very energetically and closely with our friend across Europe , include at the recently convene french summit , to ensure that the heft and military capability of all Ukraine ' s ally be bring to bear in increase Ukraine ' s fight edge . I call the shadow Minister . our defence , security and foreign policy relationship with Germany be critical , not least in relation to our united and mutual support for Ukraine . I will meet german counterpart about those issue in Berlin this week . will the Minister give we more detail on the discussion he and the Foreign Secretary have have with german counterpart on three issue : urgently speed up and expand the delivery of weaponry , bolster our diplomatic coalition and , crucially , use frozen russian state asset across Europe to pay for urgent need to support Ukraine ? the hon . Gentleman ask a characteristically intelligent and pertinent question . we be work together to increase defence industrial capability . some new idea have come out of the french summit about increase domestic capability for our ukrainian friend . a lot of diplomatic support go into that . on frozen asset , he will have see recent thinking from the european side about use the interest payment from those fund , which we will consider . we need to find a reliable legal route , if that be to be sustainable . Vladimir Kara - Murza what diplomatic step he be take to help secure the safety and release of Vladimir Kara - Murza . the UK have consistently condemn Vladimir Kara - Murza ' s politically motivate conviction and call for his release . we sanction 11 individual in response to his sentencing , as well as two individual involve in his early poisoning . we regularly raise his case both with the russian authority and at multilateral fora . since the death of Alexei Navalny , do the Government recognise the increase urgency of Vladimir Kara - Murza ' s case ? he be now the most high - profile live political prisoner in Russia . what more be the Government consider do ? be the Government work with our ally , such as the United States , on a number of issue in this field ? our ambassador raise Mr Kara - Murza ' s case in person with Russia ' s Deputy Foreign Minister on 19 January , repeat our request for consular access . the Foreign Secretary meet Mrs Kara - Murza , and Mr Kara - Murza ' s mother , Elena Gordon , on 1 March . we remain in close and regular contact with his family and legal representative , and we will continue to keep his case at the top of our agenda . my constituent , Evan Gershkovich , be detain by the FSB — the Federal Security Service — almost exactly a year ago , on 29 March 2023 . he be an american citizen who live in the UK and work for the Wall Street Journal . his continued detention be another stain on Russia . although Mr Gershkovich be not a british citizen , be the Minister confer with his american colleague to ensure that Mr Gershkovich be release ? yes , I be happy to confirm that . I will seek an update from our head of mission in Moscow for the hon . Lady ' s increase awareness . israeli Occupation of the West Bank what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of the israeli occupation of the west bank . what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of the israeli occupation of the west bank . Israel must not undermine prospect for peace and security in the west bank . as the occupy power , Israel must protect the civilian population . the Minister forget to mention that this be one of the rare occasion on which the United Kingdom Government have a long - stand position that Israel be act unlawfully in the west bank . some 700 , 000 separate criminal act of unlawful occupation have be endorse and instruct by Benjamin Netanyahu . because that illegal occupation have go unpunished , we now see extremist , with the tacit acquiescence and sometimes direct support of the Israeli Defence Force , commit act of cold - blooded murder against innocent civilian . if they do not stand up to criminal , those crime will get bad . the Minister mention that two individual have be sanction for their crime in the west bank . why have the President or the Prime Minister of Israel , who order that unlawful occupation , not also be sanction ? the Government pursue the objective I have set out clearly to the House in a way most likely to bring success . the five core ask that be so relevant to many of these question be : the release of all hostage ; formation of a new palestinian Government for the west bank and Gaza ; remove Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack against Israel ; Hamas no long be in charge of Gaza ; and , with our ally , the provision of serious practical and technical support for the Palestinian Authority . that be the approach that be most likely to command support and not , I fear , the line that the hon . Gentleman take . the Minister say that Israel have a duty to protect civilian , but in the west bank there have be 400 death . there be now testimony from palestinian civilian , include woman and child , who have be subject to kidnap , torture and abuse at the hand of israeli settler , yet the UK Government have sanction only four illegal settler . what further action be the UK Government go to take against settler ? surely it be time to ban the trade of good from those illegal settlement once and for all . I really do not think that that would be a very sensible thing to do . we do not comment across the Floor of the House on who be about to be sanction or where the sanction regime be go , but the hon . Member may rest assure that we keep these matter under very careful review . I call the shadow Minister . as Ramadan begin and Passover and Easter approach , it be vital that all place of worship in Jerusalem be respect . I be extremely concerned by suggestion from israeli Minister Ben - Gvir that restriction could be impose on worshipper at al - Aqsa mosque . I welcome subsequent statement by israeli authority that the sanctity of the holiday will be preserve . authority must show respect and restraint at this crucial moment . have the Government make it clear to israeli counterpart that Minister Ben - Gvir ' s comment be unacceptable and inflame tension , and that the status quo arrangement must be maintain ? the hon . member be entirely right about the importance of religious freedom , particularly in the circumstance that she so clearly set out . she may rest assure that those be point that the british Government make very strongly to Israel . it be helpful that the Opposition and the Government speak with one voice on that very important matter . Falkland Islands what step he be take to uphold the Falkland Islanders ' right of self - determination . what step he be take to uphold the Falkland Islanders ' right of self - determination . the UK Government will always protect and promote the Falkland Islanders ' right of self - determination . only they can decide their future . we want a good relationship with Argentina , but have be very clear that we will never negotiate away the islander ' democratic right . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary reassure the islander about our endure commitment during his welcome visit to the Falkland Islands last month . I be the chair of the british overseas territory all - party parliamentary group . I remember watch the ship leave the Tamar in my constituency and head to the Falklands more than 40 year ago . in 1982 , our Prime Minister , Maggie Thatcher , say : " Defeat ? I do not recognise the meaning of the word . " do the Government retain that steely resolve ? I be young enough to remember those day as well , and yes , the UK Government remain steadfast in their resolve to ensure that the Falkland Islanders ' right of self - determination be uphold , and we will continue to use all diplomatic mean to that end . will my hon . friend join I in recognise the effort of the Falkland Islanders to build a modern , thriving community and economy , and do he agree that as long as they wish to remain part of the british family , the sovereignty of the Falklands Islands will not be up for discussion ? well say . the modern , diverse , economically prosperous Falkland Islands of today be testimony to the islander ’ achievement since the 1982 conflict . the islander be a value part of the british family , and as long as they want to remain part of the family , sovereignty will not be up for discussion . have the very commendable word that the Minister have say at the Dispatch Box today be relay to the argentinian authority ? as I have say , we be work on our good relation with Argentina , but the country be very clear about our position on the Falkland Islands . british Overseas Territories what step he be take to support effective governance in the british overseas territory . it be good to see my hon . friend in his place , and continue with his strong interest in our overseas territory . the UK be commit to ensure the security and good governance of the overseas territory and their people . we support improvement in institution to ensure great accountability and transparency , and fair society . the Minister will know that the 16 british overseas territory be cherish part of the british family , and we rightly expect good governance from they in return for their be part of our british family . however , be it not time that they be give some form of representation — not necessarily here in the British Parliament , but in institution such as a Committee of the House , where they could actually have a voice ? at the moment , they have no representation in any sense ; they be not even allow to be member of the Commonwealth — not even associate member . will he look at that , and see whether the Government can come up with a new approach to ensure that our british overseas territory be fully represent ? I understand my hon . friend ' s point , which he make with characteristic conviction . the Foreign Affairs Committee be set up a Sub - Committee that will engage the overseas territory more . of course , I be a strong voice , along with many other people here , for the overseas territory and will continue to be so . Turkey : surgical Procedures what information his Department hold on the number of UK national who have die follow surgical procedure in Turkey in the last 10 year . we be aware of 28 british national who have die in Turkey follow elective medical procedure since 2019 . the UK Government continue to engage actively with the turkish Government on how to support the safety of patient who travel to Turkey for medical treatment . I thank the Minister for that answer ; that be far too many people who have die . many gruesome death have occur follow cosmetic surgery in Turkey . the family of my constituent , 28 - year - old Shannon , witness the most agonising , horrific death as she lie on a table convulse for some nine hour . as far as I be aware , not once have Foreign Office Ministers raise those needless death with turkish Government official . furthermore , a pitiful byline of travel advice on the gov . uk website be simply not good enough . will the Minister investigate an advertising suspension , in collaboration with Cabinet colleague and regulator , for country know for dangerous health tourism as a possible way to avoid further death like Shannon ' s ? we raise that issue with our turkish counterpart at many level . we will always look at what more we can do , but the head of mission in Ankara be seize of the urgency and importance of the issue and be work in close collaboration with the turkish authority . israeli Hostages in Gaza what step his Department be take to help secure the release of israeli hostage in Gaza . what step he be take to support effort to secure the release of hostage hold by Hamas in Gaza . we have be work tirelessly to secure the release of all hostage , include british national , since 7 October . last week , the UN publish its first report into the violence against woman in Israel on 7 October and against hostage . it conclude that rape , gang rape and genital mutilation be systematically use against israeli woman and girl . the fact that the victim who survive do not trust the UN enough to speak to it about their experience add another layer of heartbreak to the situation . what will my right hon . friend the Minister do to urge the UN to make it a priority to rebuild trust and tell the world that # MeToo count for Jews too ? the world very much need the United Nations , and I completely recognise the position that my hon . friend so eloquently describe . we will do everything we can as a lead member of the United Nations — one of the p5 — to try to improve that relationship . on the appalling event of October 7 , which she describe , we be do everything we can to try to help , as I set out early . the hostage have be in captivity for more than 100 day . the New York Times have report that of the 134 hostage still in captivity , 50 may have be kill . give that 10 israeli citizen have be in captivity in Gaza for more than 10 year , do my right hon . friend the Minister agree that there must absolutely be a commitment to return the hostage before we can move to a humanitarian ceasefire ? yes , my hon . friend be absolutely correct . he set out the position extremely well . it be a top focus of all part of the British Government to try to get the hostage back , as I set out early . the Prime Minister and the International Court of Justice have call for their immediate release . although I can not give a run commentary , we be work closely with the US , Qatar and Egypt to secure their release . in the past five month , israeli and palestinian civilian have bear the brunt of this conflict . we be get only the slight glimpse of the rape , torture , hostage taking and murder that be go on . will the Minister tell we what our atrocity prevention team and prevent sexual violence team be do on the ground to document and stop that ? we be very clear that we seek to document atrocity so that people can be hold to account , no matter how long it take . I set out early the additional funding specifically to help woman who have be the subject of appal sexual violence . I be grateful to the hon . Lady and the International Development Committee for their visit to the region . on the issue that she raise , the british Government ' s position be that there can be no impunity . the utter tragedy in the middle east be that innocent civilian on both side be pay the price for fail politic and extremism . to take the Minister back to his answer to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , if he accept that Israel have the capacity to meet international law , he be say , be he not , that Israel be in breach of it ? no , I be not say that . I be say that the current judgment of the British Government be that Israel have both the capacity and the intent to abide within international humanitarian law . it be an issue that we keep under review , as the hon . Gentleman will understand . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . on the question of Britain ' s priority in Ukraine , Gaza and across the world , the Government be deliver . at the Munich security conference , the G20 in Brazil and the United Nations , the Foreign Secretary have argue for stand by Ukraine as the invasion enter its third year . on Gaza , we be press with partner for a humanitarian pause and increase aid flow to palestinian civilian . we have expand the blue belt , defend shipping in the Red sea and launch an innovative development partnership with Qatar . the international development White Paper be be implement across Government and have be widely welcome around the world . follow recent event in Ukraine , what step have be take to speed up the process of release fund from the sale of Chelsea football club to support all victim of the war in Ukraine , wherever they be in the world ? the hon . Lady be quite right that release those fund be take far too long . there be significant complication address the release , which involve the European Union and Portugal , as well as Britian . I can tell she , however , that there be renew energy in the Foreign Office to try to bring this matter to a head as swiftly as possible . the International Atomic Energy Agency have recently make an assessment that enough uranium have be enrich in Iran to produce three atomic warhead . if that be true , what be the Government ' s consideration regard snap back sanction on Iran ? these enrichment level have no credible civilian justification . we be work with partner to ensure that Iran never develop a nuclear weapon , be prepared to use all diplomatic option , include trigger UN snapback if necessary , and will continue to monitor the situation very closely . I call the shadow Minister . next month be the anniversary of a full year of unmitigated horror in Sudan . on Friday , the Security Council call for an immediate Ramadan ceasefire , and I know that our excellent diplomat and the Minister be pivotal in that resolution . the African Union , the Arab League and Members across this House echo that call , but the violence have not stop . if the war party continue to refuse to listen , how can the Government work with partner to step up the pressure ? the hon . Lady be quite right to raise the appalling position in Sudan , which to some extent have be mask by other terrible event in the world . she will be pleased to hear that , thank to british leadership at the United Nations , a new Security Council resolution be pass , I believe , last Friday . we be seek to bring together all the different party to try to make progress , so that the next round of talk , possibly in Jeddah , will be more successful than the last . Britain condemn any arming of either party inside Sudan . we be seek also , through the work of our diplomatic mission in Khartoum , currently base in Addis , to help build civil society so that a political track can emerge . as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to four key latin american market , I have see at first hand the work that his Majesty ' s Government and the UK private sector be do to help with the responsible extraction of key mineral such as lithium . with the drive to net zero accelerating , those mineral will only become more important , and competition be increase . what diplomatic step be the Department take to strengthen the UK ' s security and its economic relation with country in Latin America ? we be grateful for the outstanding work of our well - respect trade envoy — my hon . friend do amazing work . trade and security be two central tenet of the UK ' s relationship with Latin America . join the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership create huge opportunity for business in Latin America and in the UK , and as my hon . friend be aware , sustainable and reliable supply chain for critical mineral — include lithium — be key . I look forward to meet the bolivian vice - president this afternoon . state - hood be the inalienable right of palestinian people and not in the gift of any neighbour , so do the Minister agree that no country have the right to veto the UK ' s recognition of a palestinian state ? the british Government have always make it clear that they will recognise the palestinian state when they think the time be right and such recognition would be helpful . the belarusian company Alutech have somehow manage to circumvent sanction and set up in the UK , in direct competition with its business partner , Dewsbury - base Alunet , whose turnover have be halve from £ 30 million to £ 15 million and have shed job as a result of that unfair competition . will the Minister agree to meet with I and director of Alunet to discuss how we can resolve this terrible situation ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue . as he know , some of our official have meet representative of the company concern , and we be continue to take action to close gap between our russian and belarusian sanction — we keep they under constant review . I would be very happy to meet with my hon . friend to discuss the belarusian sanction far . the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary have be clear that we must be bold , seize hundred of billion of pound of frozen russian asset to support the Ukraine war effort , and that we must get hold of the interest on those asset . in February , the Prime Minister say , " and then , with the G7 , we must find lawful way to seize the asset themselves and get those fund to Ukraine too . " can the Minister update the House on progress within the G7 ? the hon . Gentleman be right to ask that question . we be make progress , but he be also right to point out that what we do need to be lawful . that be the key thing , and that be what we be work on . would the Minister for development and Africa please update the House on his recent visit to Ethiopia ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I be recently in Ethiopia , and be able to visit Tigray and the edge of the most food - insecure area , where — as the House will know — starvation and food shortage be rise alarmingly . the situation be as if a football be be kick at a plate glass window ; we have the power to alter its trajectory , but if we do not , it will smash that window . that be why Britain be set up a pledge conference — work closely with the United Nations — and a contact group on Ethiopia . in the next financial year , we be increase our bilateral funding very significantly . while the world look the other way , Sudan be suffer from a catastrophe , with 8 million people displace , 15 million with no healthcare whatsoever , and 24 million go hungry . what little aid there be be not get in , and all aid across the conflict line have be suspend since last December . what effort be the Minister make to advocate for additional crossing point for aid to get in to Chad and South Sudan and across the conflict line , and will he attend the aid conference in Paris next month ? yes , I do expect to attend that conference . I speak regularly to counterpart in the African Union , the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia , and speak last night to Tom Perriello , the new US special envoy for Sudan . we work very closely with the Intergovernmental Authority on Development and the Troika . we understand that the violence in Darfur bear all the hallmark of ethnic cleansing and be fund an open - source organisation , the Centre for Information Resilience , to keep account of those event , so that there can be no impunity in that respect either . do my right hon . friend agree that , in order to see palestinian self - determination , we need an end to human right abuse , antisemitism and the glorification of violence , and we need Palestinians free from Hamas ? we certainly agree with my hon . friend ' s last point about a Palestine free from Hamas . there be no place for Hamas in the future Government of Palestine . on the point he make about how we proceed far , the Government be absolutely clear that there be no place in our society , or anywhere else for that matter , for Islamophobia or antisemitism . israeli Minister Benny Gantz be the only person to have be grant a special mission status certificate by the Foreign Office since the beginning of last year , in effect protect he from arrest for his part in suspect breach of international law . accord to report , Israel do not grant Gantz ' s delegation official status , so can the Minister explain why the UK Government still choose to provide diplomatic cover for this individual ? whatever the position of the israeli Government , let I assure the hon . member that Benny Gantz be receive in this country . he be see by the Foreign Secretary , and his visit be most welcome . the Minister will know that european security continue to be underpin by the USA , which fund the vast majority of the NATO budget . could I please ask he what be be do to coerce more of our NATO ally to meet their 2 % commitment , and do he agree that european nation must shoulder more of the burden for our own security , for good strategic reason ? I do agree that we must put our money where our mouth be , but as we survey the landscape of european and atlantic security on the 75th anniversary of NATO , we see — with the accession of Finland and Sweden — that NATO be in very good order indeed . I acknowledge what the Minister of State say about sanction certain west bank settler , although four seem a very low number to I . have he raise the activity of those settler with his opposite number in the israeli Government ? the british Government have certainly raise those activity with the israeli Government . that be why we have ask that they should be arrest , prosecute and punish for those activity . on those who may or may not be subject to a sanction regime , we keep that fully under review , but the hon . Member will understand why I think it be good not to discuss that across the Floor of the House . have any Foreign Office Minister , official or embassy member have any discussion with our american ally over the dysfunctional extradition treaty since the disgraceful end of the Sacoolas case ? my right hon . Friend ask an extremely good question . he and I have co - operate on this matter many time in the past . if he would be so good as to table a question on this matter , I will make sure that he immediately get a full answer to that question . when Jeffrey Sachs , a UN adviser — from a jewish american family , incidentally — say on camera : " Israel have deliberately starve the people of Gaza … I be not use an exaggeration . I ' m talk literally starve a population . Israel be a criminal , be in non stop war crime status , now I believe in genocidal status , and it be without shame , without remorse , without truth , without insight into what it ' s do " , and add : " this be a murderous gang in government right now . these be zealot " , do that not give the UK Government pause to reflect on the funding of UNRWA , and to call for a ceasefire and the recognition of Palestine , which 138 of 193 UN member state have do , rather than see it wipe off the map ? I think almost nothing that the hon . Gentleman have just say could possibly be deem helpful in try to bring the two side together , achieve a pause , get the hostage out , get aid in and achieve a sustainable ceasefire . therefore , I be afraid I be unable to offer any reassurance on any of the point he make . last week , 287 child age between five and 12 be kidnap from their school in Nigeria . that come on top of 8 , 000 Christians who be kill for their faith last year . what be we do about it ? my right hon . friend be right about these appalling event , and the high commission in Abuja have raise these matter . our hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , who be responsible for freedom of religion or belief , regularly focus on what be happen in Nigeria and make representation , which also ensure that the Foreign Office be keep up to the mark in pursue it . Canada be to resume funding for UNRWA have receive UN report . have the UK Government receive such report , be they be review , and when will that review be conclude and decision be make ? we be ask that we have an interim report on both the key report as soon as possible , and we will look at those report as soon as they arrive and make our decision accordingly . during the course of these question I have adumbrate both those who be support the same position as the UK and those who be restore funding immediately . the hon . Gentleman will want to bear in mind that Britain have fully fund UNRWA for its share up until the next financial year . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . Haiti be on the edge of collapse , and only 100 nautical mile away be the Turks and Caicos island , for whose national security the UK have responsibility . will the Foreign Office fulfil its role by request of the Ministry of Defence and the Home Office that we deploy HMS Trent with its defensive capability , deploy Royal Marine fast boat , provide asset monitor in the sea lane , and increase the police footprint in TCI ? too often we have act too slowly , which in the past that have result in threat to remove TCI from our overseas family . please can we act now ? I assure my hon . friend that I be recently in TCI and I understand the situation there . we have see a rise in the number of people make the dangerous journey by sea from Haiti to TCI . we have put in place 13 serious crime investigator and seven firearm , officer , and we be work with the Home Office and the MOD in building capability and capacity in this important situation . I listen carefully , as I always do , to what the Minister say regard call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire , but it be now time to step up . it require all war party to stop the rocket , the bomb and the bullet — exactly right — and for the hostage to be release . surely it would send a very strong signal if the UK Government now call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for what he have say . he will have hear the five key priority that the British Government have put on the table , and I be grateful to he for his agreement . Cross - party support be extremely helpful in drive forward an imperative about which Britain feel very strongly . will his Majesty ' s Government make the strong possible diplomatic protest against the draconian new national security law be impose on the good people of Hong Kong , and do the Minister accept that Britain still have a moral responsibility to the people of Hong Kong , who have be loyal to this country for so many year ? my hon . friend raise an important point , and we continue to raise our concern about breach of the sino - british joint declaration that we see , and about this new layer of legislation come through . we consider that that continue to be in breach , and we continue to ask for those law to be remove . do the Minister agree that the allege detention , beating and humiliation of 49 palestinian medic at the Nasser Hospital last month need to be investigate by the International Criminal Court — yes or no ? this session end with the same question with which it start , and as I set out , we believe there must be accountability and we have make that clear to the israeli authority . prison and Probation : Foreign National Offenders with permission , Mr Speaker , I shall make a statement about criminal justice in England and Wales . keep our people safe require a relentless focus on cut crime , cut reoffende , and make sure that those who pose the great risk be imprison for as long as necessary to protect the public . that be why it be welcome that crime have fall significantly over the last decade , in particular with fall of over 50 % since 2010 for offence of violence and burglary . in addition , the reoffende rate have fall over the last decade from 31 % to 25 % . that have happen not by accident , but as a result of prioritise measure range from the tagging of acquisitive offender post - release , to give the police the power they need such as stop and search . at the same time , to take the bad offender out of society for long , we have take action on sentencing , and those commit the most serious crime be be sentence to 40 % long behind bar . that be because , first , we act to end the injustice of automatic release at the halfway point for the bad offender . instead of get out at the 50 % mark come what may , serious sexual and violent criminal must now serve at least two third of their sentence in custody . rapist be now serve nearly three year long on average than they do in 2010 , and we be go even far by legislate to ensure that rapist service their whole term behind bar . secondly , we have increase sentence maximum for the bad offender , such as those who cause death by dangerous driving or who cause the death of a child ; and , as a result of our reform currently before the House , those who kill in the context of sexual or sadistic behaviour will in future expect to spend the rest of their natural life behind bar . life should mean life for those who commit the most heinous crime . thirdly , we have introduce a power to enable the Secretary of State to block the release of offender such as Robert Brown , where release would pose an unacceptable risk to society . meanwhile , we be push ahead with the big prison building programme since the victorian era . we be on track to deliver 10 , 000 new prison place by the end of 2025 and be commit to build 20 , 000 place overall . today I can announce that we be go even far to make sure that we have the prison place we need to continue lock up serious and violent offender for long . I want to focus in particular on foreign national offender , whom I will call fno . the number of fno have increase over recent year to 10 , 500 — around 12 % of prisoner — in England and Wales , at an average cost to the taxpayer of around £ 47 , 000 per prisoner per year . these foreign criminal be not only put a strain on the public purse but reduce the capacity of the prison system . we believe that they should , wherever possible , be remove back to their country of origin , and we have make progress : last year the Government return from prison and the community nearly 4 , 000 foreign criminal , which be a 27 % increase on the year before — and we be go far . in October , I set out in the House our plan to reduce the FNO population . we have extend the early removal scheme from a maximum period of 12 month to 18 month , so that eligible fno can be deport up to six month early . almost 400 have already be remove from the UK through this and similar scheme since January . that be a 61 % increase compare with the equivalent period a year early . we have also sign a robust new agreement with Albania , which have restart transfer of albanian offender — the large single cohort in our prison — and we be legislate in the Criminal Justice Bill to rent prison overseas , as other european country have do . this be important progress , but we must build on it by make sure that even more fno be remove from the country and spurious barrier to their removal be quickly remove . I can tell the House that we will radically change the way that FNO case be process . we have create a new taskforce across the Home Office and Ministry of Justice , include the Prison Service , Immigration Enforcement , and the asylum and modern slavery team . we have surge 400 additional caseworker , who will be in place by the end of March , to prioritise these case , and we will streamline the end - to - end removal process . we be also expand the number of fno we can remove — for example , by bring forward legislation to allow we to remove foreign offender with limited leave to remain under conditional caution , and amend our deportation policy so that we can remove those on suspend sentence of six month or more . we be make more use of the diplomatic lever we have to remove people back to their home country , include by expedite prisoner transfer with our priority country ; conclude new transfer agreement with partner country such as Italy ; and be prepared to make use of the power provide under the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 to restrict visa for any country where no progress on FNO removal can be make . that will allow we to deport more fno directly from prison in 2024 — more than double the 1 , 800 we remove last year and more than in any year since 2010 . let I now turn to the unsustainable growth in our remand population since the pandemic and the Criminal Bar Association action . this be important . when covid hit , we be confront with two momentous judgment call . the first be whether to order mass release of prisoner . public health advice in this country , as in many other , be to release thousand and thousand of prisoner , give fear that the pandemic would rip through the prison estate and take countless life . we decline to do that , and in the event — although every death be of course a tragedy — the total number of life lose in prison be under 200 , thank to the excellent effort of his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service officer . other nation take a different approach . in America , where I discuss the matter recently with my counterpart , ten of thousand be release ; in California alone , the figure be 11 , 000 . in France , nearly 13 , 000 be release . it be for each nation to take their own course , but I be clear that we make the right decision for public safety in our country . the second judgment call be whether to heed the clamour to end jury trial . I believe that would have be a grave mistake , shatter a fundamental british freedom and dismantle the centrepiece of our justice system . the decision that we make be right for access to justice , right for public protection and right as a matter of principle , but have contribute to the increase in the number of defendant hold on remand while await trial or sentencing by over 6 , 000 since 2019 to about 16 , 000 today . let I turn to what we be do . on pre - trial detention , the Lady Chief Justice have confirm that if bail application be make to the magistrate court or renew before the Crown court , the court stand ready to hear they within the short time limit provide in the criminal procedure rule . we be also explore at pace with the judiciary the roll - out of a remote nationwide pilot Crown court capable of hear new bail application . the pilot would monitor whether these additional measure result in an increase in the use of tag and appropriate support package in bail application . to support that , the Government will invest £ 53 million of additional funding to expand the bail information service — part of the productivity package announce by the Chancellor at the Budget — which will enable our court system to operate as efficiently as possible by increase the court - base staff and digital system that can provide critical information to the judiciary , make the bail process more streamlined . to support that work , a furth £ 22 million of additional funding will be available over the next year to fund community accommodation . we will also increase awareness about the availability of tag — especially high - tech gps and alcohol monitor tag — to ensure that offender can be monitor in the community where appropriate . we will also extend the exist end - of - custody supervise licence measure to around 35 to 60 day . we will enable that to happen for a time - limit period and work with the police , prison and probation leader to make further adjustment as require . that will be only for certain low - level offender . where necessary , electronic monitoring will be apply to enhance public protection . minister will , of course , continue to keep use of this measure under review . the extension have be request and support by leader in the Prison Service and the police . all these measure rely on a probation service that focus its resource on the most critical point of the justice system , especially when an offender be first release from prison . in 2021 , the Government reunify the probation service , which bring together all probation function into a single national organisation . we have invest £ 155 million of extra funding each year in the service and onboarde more than 4 , 000 trainee probation officer since then , and I will be take step to refocus probation practice on the point that matter most to public protection and reduce offending . from April , we will reset probation so that practitioner prioritise early engagement at the point where offender be most likely to breach their licence condition . that will allow frontline staff to maximise supervision of the most serious offender . similarly , for those manage on community order and suspend sentence order , probation practitioner will ensure that intervention and engagement be prioritise towards the first two third of the sentence , as experience show that that most effectively rehabilitate offender . to be clear , none of the change will apply to those convict of the most serious offence , include those subject to multi - agency public protection arrangement . I express my deep gratitude for the effort of all those work in the criminal justice system : prison , probation and court staff , the police , prosecutor , lawyer and the independent judiciary . they be exceptional public servant . the Government will do what be necessary to remove foreign national offender from our country and we will do whatever it take to ensure that the british people be keep safe from the most dangerous criminal . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . late in the hour of yesterday evening , the Government try to slip out quietly an announcement that they will be release prisoner up to two month early to deal with the lack of space in our prison . let we be in no doubt that this be the most drastic form of early release for prisoner that the country have ever see , yet in the Secretary of State ' s 11 - page , 10 - minute statement it merit just one paragraph . this measure will cause shockwave and deep concern across our country and he seem to think that a quiet write ministerial statement publish late last night and one paragraph today be good enough . it be not . prisoner will now be release not 18 day early but up to an unprecedented 60 day early . no other Government have ever find themselves have to do that on such a scale . it be nearly three time the number of day on licence see under any previous scheme . let I be clear that there be consequence . this scheme will seem wrong in principle to victim and the public — that people who have do wrong and have be sentence under due process of law can be release as much as two month before a court intend . that mean that people who have break the law and , in many case , pose an ongoing threat to the law - abide public be directly benefit from the Government ' s complete incompetence . it be small wonder that the Government have refuse all request to be transparent about the scale and the impact of the scheme . that be no way to run the criminal justice system — or , indeed , the country — not least because when the Secretary of State announce the scheme last October , he be explicit that the power would " be use only for a limited period and only in target area . " he say that the scheme be to be " a temporary operational measure to relieve immediate pressure . " — [ Official Report , 16 October 2023 ; Vol . 738 , c . 59 - 60 . ] last month we learn from a leak to the medium that the scheme have be expand to more prison and , accord to unpublished guidance to prison governor , activate for an " undefined period " . he will surely acknowledge that this will strike many people as a novel definition of " temporary " . now we learn that the scheme be due to be expand very significantly — an unprecedented 60 day ahead of when a prisoner would ordinarily be release . I repeat the question that I first raise all those month ago . how many prisoner have be release early under the scheme to date ? which prison be use the early release scheme ? which type of offender be be release early under the scheme ? be domestic abuser and stalker eligible for release under the scheme ? why have it be expand to early release of up to 60 day ? why have the scheme be activate indefinitely ? will the Secretary of State finally commit to publish all the relevant statistic about the early release scheme on the same basis that prison datum be publish — on a weekly basis , rather than the wholly inadequate commitment to publish on an annual basis , not least because there will have be a general election before then ? the Secretary of State have acknowledge , at last , that all the change put real and profoundly concern additional pressure on our already overstretch and understaffed probation service . he tell we that there will be a reset for probation to ensure that it prioritise early engagement , but it be not clear what that mean or what part of its vital work he be suggest probation officer will not do as a result of today ' s statement . what be glaringly absent be any additional resource to support the thousand of case that will now have their release date bring forward . it be wholly inevitable that rush out such measure will increase the risk to the public . I hope the Secretary of State will have the honesty to admit that in his response . again , what measure have be put in place to ensure that probation have the time and the resource to assess risk adequately and protect the public ? have there be a risk assessment of the expansion ? if so , will he publish it ? how will the Government ensure that inexperienced probation staff be not leave unsupported to supervise dangerous offender ? the Government tell we that they will free up more space in our prison by crack down on the number of foreign national offender who be take up space that we can ill afford to spare when they have no right to be in this country . the Secretary of State have not point out that the number that the Government deport last year be significantly low than those they inherit in 2010 — 5 , 383 foreign national offender be deport in the last year of the Labour Government . meanwhile , thousand of foreign national offender be live in the community post release for several year without be remove . we welcome any improvement that the Government intend to make on this pretty poor record , but if the public be to believe that any of these measure will make the necessary difference , the Secretary of State need a more credible plan , such as a new return and enforcement unit with up to 1 , 000 new staff — more than double his 400 announce today . unprecedented be a term that be far too often bandy around in politic , but these change be , by any measure , truly extraordinary . the Secretary of State have not be transparent with this House or with the public . they deserve answer , and it be about time that he start give they . I thank the hon . Lady for her point . she address a number of issue , but not the fact that when Labour be in government , it run a similar scheme for three year . do she want to explain how many be release during that scheme ? I be sure that she will welcome the opportunity to update the House . she talk about risk , and she be right to raise these important issue , but it be also important that we set they out clearly and calmly . first , unlike the labour scheme in which those who have be sentence to under 12 month be release with no licence condition , everyone will have a licence condition . we need to be clear about what that mean . under Labour ' s scheme , which run for three year , there be no licence condition at all . under our scheme there will be licence condition . secondly , Labour ' s scheme operate in a blanket way across every prison . Ours be target and calibrate . thirdly , and importantly , under this scheme there will be the opportunity for a gold command veto , where the governor have concern about an individual — [ interruption . ] if the hon . Lady could just listen for a moment . those concern will be escalate to a panel of senior official , who will make a decision base on the offender ' s history , the propose bail address and the condition that could be impose — not to contact , not to enter , to abide by a curfew or potentially to be tag . if the governor have concern about safety , that person will not be release . that safeguard be not available under the Labour scheme , which run for three year . it be critical to prioritise public safety , which be our focus . in the hon . Lady ' s response there be the eloquent sound of silence in relation to the specific question that this Government and every Government around the world face : should we have let out thousand of prisoner ? she have give no answer to that question , but it be important , because if she aspire to stand here , she will have to say whether that should have take place . not do so have contribute to the pressure that we face , but it would have be the wrong thing to do , because it would have prioritise prisoner safety over public safety . we do not do it , and we be right not to do it . Principle have a cost , and we have take a sensible decision . the second thing that the hon . Lady do not address be whether we should have listen to those who clamour for the end of jury trial . I do not think she be suggest that we should have , but there be an inevitable effect to that . when we come into office , the number of case in the Crown court be around 48 , 000 . Pre - covid , it be 39 , 000 , but as it have go up , inevitably as a result of keep the jury trial system , a high proportion of people have be in custody await trial . that be a matter of remorseless , arithmetic logic . there be an additional 6 , 000 people now . we make the right decision , but we have to take a sensible step . the final point that the hon . Lady fail to address be what she would have do in these circumstance . she know , as I know , that she would have take exactly the same step . to seek to make political capital be beneath she . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I commend the Secretary of State for his characteristically thoughtful and measured approach . do he agree that it do no one any good service to try to reduce this issue to simplistic argument ? the truth be that deal with prison capacity , where everyone have recognise for many year that there be real pressure , demand a careful set of check and balance . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that those be in place ? do he also agree that we need to be honest with the public in say that , however much we try , prison place be expensive and finite . therefore , the system must make judicious and intelligent use of prison , which include lock up those who be dangerous and have alternative way of deal with and punish those who be not dangerous to the community . be that not the objective ? my hon . friend make an exceptional point . we have to proceed on the basis of evidence , not emotion . we choose to lock up the most dangerous offender for long , which be why those who murder in the context of sexual or sadistic behaviour should be in custody for the rest of their life , because the threat to the population be so great . where people can be reform use technology , which be not available a long time ago , we should use that , not just because that work as a matter of common sense but because the data show that it work . on my hon . friend ' s specific point , anyone who look at this issue calmly and in an adult way will see that there have be pressure in moment in history . there be one in 1997 and another in 2007 , when Jack Straw have a terrible argument with Lord Falconer about the use of cell in Inner London Crown court . those of we who have be in the system remember that . the key be whether to deal with that in a sensible , calibrate and proportionate way . we will take every step to look after the safety of the public , and we will not score political point in the process . last week , the Prisons Minister and I visit Wormwood Scrubs , where we find double up in single cell , with unshielded toilet , and overcrowding affect people ' s time out of cell and access to work . the education service be describe as poor , and food budget be £ 2 . 70 a day . Staff tell we that assault on officer be not be prosecute . what be the Lord Chancellor do to improve condition in our victorian prison , as that be vital for the welfare of staff , the rehabilitation of prisoner and the protection of the public ? first , I commend the hon . gentleman for visit his local prison , as do so be extremely valuable and I be grateful for his feedback . he raise a number of issue and I would be happy to write to he , but may I just deal with one thing in particular ? we ask prison officer to do an extremely difficult job ; they need to be robust , but sometimes they have to be sensitive . to assist they in do so , we be ensure , first , that they be pay properly , and so we accept every last penny of the Prison Service pay review body recommendation . secondly , we be roll out body - wear video , so that they know that if a situation look like it be escalate , the evidence will be there — that provide a powerful deterrent effect . thirdly , and finally , we be reduce attrition . I hope he will agree that experienced prison officer be the one who can make those tough decision on when to be tough and when , metaphorically speak , to offer that hand of support . clearly , there be pressure on the prison estate . I appreciate that some of the challenge to the Justice Secretary ' s statement today be about many thinking that we be not keep in prison people who should be there , but there be also a problem of some people be send to prison who should not be there . he will be aware of my police officer constituent who one minute be hail a hero for apprehend a violent criminal and the next find himself in Wandsworth prison . there be a slight irony , give this statement , that the Government intend to put further pressure on the estate through clause in their Criminal Justice Bill propose the imprisonment of beggar and rough sleeper . give what he be say today , will he consider support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , and support by myself , my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and many other from across this House , that would remove the intention to imprison rough sleeper and beggar ? my hon . Friend assiduously raise matter on behalf of her constituent and be go to be such a loss to this House . she indicate in that question why she will be . of course , I can not comment on the specific circumstance relate to her constituent , because of the independent trial process . the Criminal Justice Bill contain Home Office measure , but I will ensure that the Home Secretary be aware of the point she have raise . the number of case dispose of by our court be down by 200 , 000 from its pre - pandemic level — a reduction of 12 % . what be the Secretary of State do to eliminate that backlog ? what impact do he think there will be on prison number in the event that he be successful ? that be a fair question . it be always worth remember that more than 90 % of case be dispose of in the magistrate court , where we be get through a very significant number . he make a fair point about the Crown court , because we be prosecute 32 % more rape offence than before , so the plea rate be low , because — guess what ? — people do not plead guilty to rape in the way that they might plead guilty to handle steal good , for example . so we address that by put additional money into the system , with £ 141 million go into legal aid , and by ensure that section 28 be use , with pre - record video evidence and so on . we make no apology for the fact that we have to let the system take its course on these appalling crime and we will do everything we can to increase resource so that people — victim and witness — get the justice they deserve . I very much support the carefully consider move announce today by my right hon . and learn Friend , which reflect the reality of the pressure on our prison estate and on our excellent prison officer , follow the extraordinary impact of covid . I especially welcome the additional step he have announce to remove more foreign national offender . he speak of a reset in probation , so will he set out in a little more detail how he hope it will reduce reoffende and so cut crime ? what we all want to see , of course , be few victim of crime . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise that point . probation be critical and I have make a point since come into this role of speak not only to senior probation officer , important though they be , but to probation officer on the frontline . that have be an incredibly instructive experience . one I speak to in Luton and Dunstable tell I that the measure we have take to roll out 12 week ' guarantee accommodation be the most significant step that any Government have take in the 30 year he have be a probation officer . the reset I refer to will follow evidence , not emotion . in other word , it will allow probation officer to calibrate and prioritise their resource to those part of the licence period where reoffende be most likely to take place . that be common sense and it follow the evidence . ultimately , measure such as that be why reoffende have go down from 31 % to 25 % , thus save a number of people from be victim of crime in the first place . I thank the Minister for a comprehensive response , as always ; he be certainly across his subject . it be great that action have be take to ease prisoner overcrowding . an element of concern must , however , be express at the thought of criminal be release early , even though their crime be be deem " low level " . what procedure will be follow to ensure that those be consider for early release pose absolutely no threat to the public ? what be the Minister ' s plan should one reoffend upon release ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that matter because it be important that we in this House , no matter where we sit , ensure that a clear and accurate message go to the public . the people who be out will be out on condition . if a condition be breach — this be not necessarily about commit an offence — not only will they be recall for the period of the end of custody supervise licence , but they could be recall for the entire balance of their sentence . that be an important point to understand . we could be talk about a contact condition , a residence condition , a co - operate with probation condition or a " not to go to Strangford town centre " condition . these thing be important condition to ensure that the public be protect and society be keep safe . I welcome today ' s statement on foreign national offender , but this be ultimately about law - abide british people . do the Justice Secretary agree that we should instantaneously remove any right to remain at the end of their sentence for those who abuse our hospitality by commit the most serious crime ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about this ; people who come to our country and enjoy its hospitality should expect short shrift if they repay that with crime , because that be an offence against not just the individual , but our entire community . that be why we be take robust action to deport foreign national offender . I be afraid to say that this be action not share by the opposition ; in 2020 , a letter be send to the then Prime Minister urge he not to allow a planeload of foreign national offender to take off . who sign it ? it be the shadow Secretary of State . be the Lord Chancellor alive to a principal concern and source of frustration among Crown court judge : the frequent delisting of case at short notice , with all the consequence that then follow for delay and increase number of prisoner on remand , occasion by a grow shortage of criminal barrister ? that , in turn , will lead to a reduction in both the quantity and quality of future judge . I be so grateful to my right hon . friend for raise that issue , because ensure that there be a vibrant profession be crucial , not only in order for the machine of justice to continue , but to provide the pipeline to which he refer . as for the specific issue of list or delist , as he refer to it , that be a judicial discretion — it be a matter for the judge . however , he be right about want to ensure that there be a pipeline , which be why we be invest more than £ 140 million into legal aid , so that instead of talented young professional think , " I be off to the private sector to earn a fortune at the chancery Bar , " they will be there at the legal aid Bar , follow in the footstep of my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , the Chair of the Justice Committee , prosecute and defend criminal so that we can ensure that justice be serve in our country . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that under the new scheme victim will see justice prevail , while foreign national offender will efficiently be process to leave the country ? that contrast with what happen under the previous Labour Government , who have people who have already serve their sentence languish in prison beyond their sentence while the deportation court catch up with the process . my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be a matter of basic justice . the british people expect that those who offend against our country , as well as against victim of crime , should receive short shrift . that be why we be absolutely clear that if violent thug who rape , murder , steal and rob be in our country from overseas , we will put they on a plane and get they out . bill present Bereavement Support ( Children and Young People ) Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Christine Jardine , support by Wendy Chamberlain , Mrs Flick Drummond , Mr Tobias Ellwood , Richard Foord , Tim Loughton , Rachael Maskell , Jim Shannon and Munira Wilson , present a Bill to require specified organisation and public body to inform child and young people of local , national and online support service available to they follow a bereavement ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 April , and to be print ( Bill 176 ) . Personal Protective Equipment at Work ( protect Characteristics ) Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Emma Hardy present a Bill to require employer to ensure that personal protective equipment provide at work to people with certain protect characteristic within the meaning of the Equality Act 2010 be suitable for the wearer ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 June , and to be print ( Bill 177 ) . public Sector Websites ( Data Charges ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require provider of electronic communication network to allow their customer to access certain public sector website free of charge ; and for connected purpose . it be a pleasure to present the Bill , which would make a significant difference to the financial security of so many struggle household up and down the country . as we all know , the cost of living crisis have squeeze the household finance of million . the last thing our constituent need , when they be already worry about choose between heat their home or put food on the table , be to run out of datum to access vital public service on the internet . in October 2023 , the digital inclusion all - party parliamentary group find that nearly 2 million household in the UK be struggle to pay for broadband — nearly double the number in the year before . indeed , a Citizens Advice study in May last year report that 12 % of household survey say they have have to cut back or stop spend on broadband entirely during the previous 12 month . for those on universal credit , the situation be even starker . the study find that 16 % of claimant say they be behind on their broadband bill , compare with just 4 % of non - claimants . some 14 % of universal credit claimant who say they have to cut down on their internet usage due to cost , also find it difficult to manage their universal credit account as a result . in an age when we be increasingly able to access public service via the internet , particularly via mobile browser , we must ensure that we do not leave people behind during this digital revolution . our reliance on the internet become acutely clear during the pandemic : NHS Digital record 1 . 2 billion visit to NHS webpage between October 2021 and September 2022 , with 131 million visit to the vaccination book page . the increase prevalence of public information and resource available online be a good thing — as a former NHS worker , I know it have the capacity to make our public service more efficient , more agile and well value for money for taxpayer — but be able to access the NHS website should not be constrain by someone ' s financial situation . likewise , someone on universal credit should not have to worry about not be able to access their account because of their data allowance . simply put , we know that those with the great need to access online service be often the one face the great barrier to do so . during the pandemic , operator such as Vodafone , ee , Virgin Media , O2 and Three give their customer free online access to the NHS website , covid information , the NHS app and online education resource such as BBC Bitesize and Oak National Academy . the operator recognise the huge surge in need and the barrier that some people would face as a result . this procedure be know as zero - rating , whereby access any of those website would not consume a user ' s mobile data allowance . indeed , since the pandemic , Virgin Media , O2 and Three continue to offer zero - rating to their customer for various public service website after see what a vital help it can be for the least well - off during the cost of living crisis . my Bill simply propose that we continue the good work that some operator have already do by extend this precedent into a legal requirement for all network provider operate in the UK . by make the gov . uk and nhs . uk site zero - rate , we can extend universal free access to the most vital service , such as universal credit , local authority service and NHS health information , to everyone no matter their financial situation . zero - rate public service website be by no mean a silver bullet , but it would help to ease one of the many financial burden that household currently face . by give user free access to gov . uk webpage , for instance , we could ease some of the financial pressure and stress for some of the most vulnerable in society . many household rely on a mobile phone for all their internet access , but they be often dependent on expensive datum top - up to stay online . by remove cost from gov . uk and nhs . uk site , household who visit these service will not have their datum affect and will still be able to access they even when they be out of datum . in my constituency of Wakefield , we have a fantastic organisation call Wakefield Technology 4 all , which provide vital digital access support , as well as digital device themselves , to so many household . a young woman who come to its support hub last year need help to rebuild her life after multiple incident of sexual violence . as well as have a tight budget to support herself and her child , she have to deal with have no carpet , no bed and no curtain . what she do have be a donated laptop from Wakefield Technology 4 all , but she struggle to find money for datum . access website for Government service , the NHS and local council service would often be reactive and unplanned , and she would often find herself run out of datum when she need to access those vital service . during unimaginably stressful circumstance , she would have to rely on see someone face to face at another location , or simply do without the service until she be able to purchase more credit . many of the poor and most vulnerable household have enough on their plate without the constant worry about how they will access crucial public service and information if their datum allowance run out . my constituent should not have to worry about the lack of datum prevent they from access the vital public service and information they need . with Bills such as this one , there be often the question of how , but this be a rare situation where it have be do before . as I set out , during covid and the ongoing cost of living crisis , some network step up and introduce zero - rating . clearly , deployable technology for zero - rating already exist . Zero - rating be describe by a three mobile representative during the pandemic as be as simple as " flick a switch " . indeed , some network already offer zero - rate access to social medium as a perk for their customer . compare to social medium , the cost for operator to zero - rate access to domain such as gov . uk and nhs . uk be tiny . the Government service cover by the Bill be largely text - base , so the amount of datum consume be a minute fraction of what it would take to , for example , stream a 4 k video on YouTube . once domain be establish , verify and share with operator , it would be a seamless transition to ensure that million of the most vulnerable household be still able to access vital health , education , employment and benefit service , even when their datum run out . my Bill will not solve the financial problem that so many be face up and down the country ; that be not the intention . it would , however , ensure that everyone can still access the essential service they need to get on in life , even if they run out of datum . I pay tribute to all those who be work so hard , across this House and in the other place , on digital inclusion . in particular , I be extremely grateful to the digital inclusion all - party parliamentary group , which have work tirelessly on so many aspect of digital inclusion . I also pay tribute to organisation outside Westminster , include Virgin Money UK , which I be able to visit in my constituency a few week ago . it be work with the amazing team at the Good Things Foundation to provide a national data bank , increase access to the internet for its customer and some of the most vulnerable household up and down the country . in closing , the Bill would give million of household the security of know that they can always access the crucial public service they depend on , from health advice to information about their universal credit application and access important local Government service . we still have a long way to go before we solve all the problem of digital exclusion , and the Bill do not try to fix all the myriad problem that come with it , but with the technology ready to go and the clear need for action , the Bill would none the less take we one step near to close the digital divide for good . question put and agree to . order , that Simon Lightwood , Dame Angela Eagle , Stella Creasy , Mrs Sharon Hodgson , Kate Hollern , Fabian Hamilton , Nadia Whittome , Ms Marie Rimmer , Cat Smith , Naz Shah , Sarah Edwards and Dr Rupa Huq present the Bill . Simon Lightwood accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 May , and to be print ( Bill 178 ) . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . on 24 January , the Procedure Committee publish its report HC338 , entitle " Commons scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords " , which recommend that the Foreign Secretary should appear at the Bar of the House to answer question . today we have the second session of Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office question since the report ' s publication , and there be no sign of the Secretary of State . if the Prime Minister bottle it and do not call an election in the next week or so , there could be three more session of fcdo question before the summer . have you , Mr Speaker , receive any indication from the Government of whether they intend for the Foreign Secretary to come here and answer question from member of the House , and can you confirm whether the House authority be in a position to facilitate that if and when he do appear ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his intention to make this point of order . the Procedure Committee publish its report in January , and the Government ' s response will be due towards the end of this month . I would advise he to wait for the response before consider how he might pursue the matter far . that be what I have be tell by the Clerks . way and Means Budget Resolutions Income Tax ( Charge ) Debate resume ( Order , 11 March ) . question again propose , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2024 - 25 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . it be a privilege to open the final day of debate on the Budget — a Budget with a plan to grow the economy , a plan for well public service and a plan to make work pay . today ' s debate be focus on a theme close to my heart : improve productivity . as some member know , back in 2010 , before I become a Member of Parliament , I work for my noble friend Lord Maude on an efficiency and reform agenda that save the Government £ 14 billion a year by 2014 . it capture everything from buy printer paper collectively to manage Government project well and digitise service . that agenda not only cut cost but improve productivity . ahead of the pandemic , and under this Government , productivity in the private sector increase by an average of 0 . 7 % a year between 2010 and 2019 . [ interruption . ] as I be sure Opposition Members will be interested to know , that contrast starkly with the decline in public sector productivity by an average of 0 . 2 % per annum between 1997 and 2009 . our success be entirely due to hard work behind the scene and a relentless focus on output . rather than cherry - pick statistic , will the Minister tell we what she think about the fact — confirm by the House of Commons Library — that the UK have the low investment in the G7 and be the second bad performer in the G7 , post - pandemic , in term of economic growth ? I will say to the hon . Gentleman that since 2010 we have grow fast than France , Germany and Italy , and we be predict to do the same in the next five year . it be no coincidence that between 2010 and 2019 the number of violent crime and burglary halve . our reading standard in school , which be previously behind those of France , Germany and Sweden , race ahead . the late technology , such as the NHS app and virtual ward , be now use by patient across the country . however , this be not a " once and do " situation . the effect of the pandemic on productivity be significant . moreover , as Lord Maude have put it , the focus on productivity must " never end . this will always be a work in progress . there never can be a steady state … the public , for whom public service exist , deserve nothing less . " that be why this Conservative Chancellor be willing to invest once again to drive change . the head of the National Audit Office have say that if we can improve public sector productivity , the size of the prize be ten of billion of pound , and the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate that raise public sector productivity by 5 % would be the equivalent of about £ 20 billion extra in funding . while the Chief Secretary be on the subject of the OBR , may I ask she whether the OBR be correct in say that the target public sector debt measure be forecast to increase , or whether her own personal calculation continue to suggest that debt will fall ? I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will see in the OBR figure that public sector net debt overall be expect to fall , and public sector net debt exclude the Bank of England be due to fall in the fourth and fifth year of the forecast . [ interruption . ] no , that be just the overall public sector net debt figure . may I pursue the Minister ' s response to my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) ? why have the Government choose a debt measure that exclude the Bank of England ? to put it simply , it be because we be more in control of that figure . the overall figure be fall , but public sector net debt exclude the impact of the Bank of England on the figure . the rise in public sector productivity will help we to manage the size of the state in the long term , while also maintain public service quality and deliver saving for taxpayer . that be why , 14 year on , in my role as Chief Secretary to the Treasury , I be delighted to be lead our public sector productivity programme . I be pleased that the Minister be in charge of that programme . perhaps she can explain a little more about it . local government currently have a deficit of about £ 4 billion . in the productivity plan for local government , the Government highlight the need to reduce waste on equality , diversity and inclusion . I have find no Government figure show how much that will save , but the TaxPayers ' Alliance say that it will save £ 50 million over three year , towards the £ 4 billion deficit . have the Minister a figure that suggest that the saving in that part of the productivity plan will be great ? yes , the saving in the productivity plan will amount to billion of pound . let I say a little about the economic context . the last few year have not be easy . the pandemic , Putin ' s illegal occupation of Ukraine , energy price rise , and now conflict in the middle east have take their toll on the economy , on business and on family . however , because of the difficult decision that the Government have take , the economy be turn a corner . inflation have more than halve , from 11 % to 4 % ; real wage have rise for seven month in a row ; and unemployment be down , from a high of 8 % in 2010 to 3 . 9 % at the end of last year . because we have stick to our plan , we have be able to cut the double tax on work , put £ 900 back into work people ' s pocket . on Sunday , the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies give its verdict on our tax cut for worker : " genuinely put a lot more money into the pocket of people " . the right hon . Lady be refer to the 2p cut in national insurance . that cut have be wipe out by the freeze in income tax threshold , and the average worker on £ 35 , 000 a year will still be nearly £ 400 a year bad off this year than last year . how do these figure match up ? I be sure the hon . Lady will be pleased to know that the average earner will be subject to the low effective tax rate since 1975 . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make a bit of progress . sadly , the Labour party be put this in jeopardy . Labour Members have no plan to cut taxis , and can not name a single one that they would cut . instead , they be try to pull the wool over the public ' s eye by pretend that they have refinance their £ 28 billion a year plan to decarbonise . they themselves have say that their pledge cost £ 28 billion a year , and they be apparently not scale their promise down . we all know what that mean : more taxis for hard - work family . what the public and the House need to know be this : which tax will they raise to pay for the plan , and , if they be in government after the general election , will they stick to our spending plan as set out in the Budget ? the british public deserve to know . during this Parliament , total departmental spending have increase by 3 . 2 % a year in real term , and day - to - day departmental spending will grow at an average of 1 % a year in real term beyond the current spending review period . the Government be protect the record increase in capital spending over this Parliament , which will deliver about £ 600 billion of public sector investment over the next five year . as announce in the Budget , we be also commit an additional £ 2 . 5 billion for the NHS in England in 2024 - 25 , protect day - to - day funding level in real term . be the Minister aware that thousand of people in this country would love to work and be productive , but can not because they be live with cancer ? cancer be not only a threat to people ' s life , but it also limit their ability to earn a living . I be sure that she be aware that a third of people diagnose with cancer wait two month for their first intervention that will help to cure they . be there any room in the capital spending that she set out for large - scale investment in radiotherapy , as suggest by the all - party parliamentary group for radiotherapy ? that would help to cure people more quickly and in a more targeted way , so that there be no collateral damage , and people can go back to work much soon . I praise the hon . gentleman for the work that he have do on this very important issue , and I know that the capital we be provide will help with issue such as the one he have highlight . we can not just put more money into public service and hope for the good . I be delighted to read that the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) say recently that he be in favour of reform public service , not splurge on they . well , here ' s hope that the Labour party break the habit of a lifetime . I genuinely hope that he will agree with some of the measure on productivity that we have set out today , because outcome be determine by how thing be do . by focus on outcome , not fund , we can deliver real value for the taxpayer . it be a trap to think that simply spend more buy we well public service . simply spend more be also not sustainable . on the subject of unfunded spending commitment , we on the Treasury Committee learn from the Office for Budget Responsibility this morning that the Government have not tell it about the £ 46 billion ambition to scrap national insurance contribution altogether , and because the OBR have not be tell , it can not forecast the economic impact that that may have . how do that bake in long - term economic stability for the United Kingdom ? unlike the Labour party ' s massive £ 28 billion unfunded tax commitment until 2030 , our long - term ambition to cut national insurance and erase the double tax on work do not have a date on it . we have show that , through careful stewardship of the economy over time , we can reduce people ' s taxis without cut spending . simply spend more be not sustainable . if no action be take , public spending be forecast to grow fast than gdp from 2030 ; that account for pressure that we can not avoid , such as demographic change . that must be manage , use all the tool at our disposal — and not by borrow more , or increase taxis on the british public . instead , we have to assess how we deliver public service , and improve they to make the UK more productive and ensure the long - term sustainability of public finance . yes , this be about money , but it be also about deliver the good service for the public , because productivity be not a theoretical concept ; it affect we all , in each area of our everyday life . I want well outcome for child , and teacher be able to spend more time with pupil , rather than fill out paperwork . I want the police to spend more time on the beat , not on form . as a Member of Parliament represent constituent in Sevenoaks and Swanley , I want nurse and doctor spend time with patient , not have to look at computer screen . well public productivity mean well value for money , well support for frontline worker to do their job effectively , and well result . in last week ' s Budget , the Chancellor announce that we be allocate £ 4 . 2 billion to investment in productivity . the package be broad and comprehensive , and include £ 3 . 4 billion for the NHS — double its current budget for tech and digital transformation . the NHS say that that will unlock over £ 35 billion in the come year — 10 time the amount we will put in . at the next spending review , that will be the model for all our public service . the package also include £ 105 million for 15 new special free school across England , which I know will be welcome across the House . that will create over 2 , 000 high - quality place for child with special educational need and disability , and prevent local authority ’ use of costly independent provision . the Budget provide £ 165 million to tackle the shortage of child ' s home placement and to rebuild the child ' s home estate . that will reduce the need for expensive and unsuitable emergency provision that do not produce the right outcome for the child who need our help the most . there be £ 334 million to cut crime by improve police technology , and £ 17 million for modernisation of Department for Work and Pensions service , and replace the paper - base system for benefit . as a former Pensions Minister , I know the impact that such modernisation have have on the state pension . however , this be just the start . I be also committed to drive forward work to embed productivity at every level across the whole public sector . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not . I have be very generous with my time . when I begin think about this agenda in 2009 , no one could have foresee the technological change of the last decade . those change be revolutionise the private sector , and we must embrace they in the public sector , too . our job be not yet do on the economy , but we be make progress with our plan to reward work and create growth — a plan that would be put in jeopardy under the Labour party . this Budget do what it say on the tin : it stick to the plan — a plan that Britain need , a plan that be put money back in the pocket of british people , and a plan that be work . I commend this budget to the House . rise — before I call the shadow Secretary of State , I inform the House that we have 46 speaker this afternoon . I urge back Benchers to stick to a maximum of seven minute to start with ; we will see whether that need to be reduce later . that would be extremely helpful . I be start to worry about right hon . and hon . member of the conservative party — not just because there be so few of they here today to defend their budget , but because of their state of mind . I be not sure whether it be confusion , delusion or denial , but whatever it be , they need an intervention from the public . on conservative confusion , the Chancellor call this a tax - cut Budget , but the independent forecast confirm that the tax burden be due to go up each and every year over the next five year . on conservative delusion , the Chancellor call this a Budget for a long - term plan for growth , but in the middle of this recession , the growth forecast per person be downgrade once again , after seven quarter of decline . on conservative denial , which be the bad of the three example , the conservative party come out of the Budget promise to abolish national insurance contribution altogether — an irresponsible , unfunded and massive spending commitment cost £ 46 billion a year , all without a plan to pay for it . the Budget bake in post - election cut of between £ 19 billion and £ 20 billion , and the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say that there be a conspiracy of silence from both the Conservatives and the Labour party . the Labour party have commit to stick with the Tories ' spending plan . on the conspiracy of silence , will Labour keep the £ 20 billion of departmental cut , or will it raise fund to offset that ? two short answer : first , we be not stick to the Conservatives ' spend plan and , secondly , the OBR forecast conservative party failure , not the success that the Labour party will bring to this country and the economy . I know that Conservative Ministers do not like to think about their fourth Prime Minister since 2010 , who only recently crash the economy off the back of unfunded tax cut , send mortgage bill rocket , but they really do not need to look back far in history to understand the risk of a £ 46 billion unfunded tax cut promise . they do not even need to ask their predecessor about the consequence of such risky behaviour , because the british people be still pay the price today for their economic vandalism through high mortgage and rent cost every single month . conservative Ministers need to look at themselves in the mirror and ask whether they have learn anything from the last 14 year in office . I have give just a few example of confusion , delusion , denial and risk - taking with the economy , which prove that the big threat to the economy be the conservative party . on the subject of confusion and the unfunded £ 46 billion commitment on national insurance contribution , my hon . friend will note that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury would not give clarity on the date for her Government ' s promise , yet the Chancellor say in an email to conservative party member that he want to make progress on that promise " in the next Parliament " . other member of the Government be say completely different thing . be this not an example of the chaos that the Conservatives be in ? that be yet more evidence of the Conservatives ' ill discipline . last time , they want to disregard the Office for Budget Responsibility , and announce unfunded tax cut ; now the former Chancellor support these new , unfunded tax cut , and yet again the Government be not give the OBR the information that it need to make policy forecast . do the hon . Gentleman understand the difference between an ambition and a promise ? I would like the hon . gentleman to explain that to the public . give that the conservative party make promise at every single election and fail to deliver they , I think the public have the same question in mind . move on to the confusion about this be a tax - cut Budget , the Budget document confirm that the United Kingdom have the high tax burden in 70 year , and that burden rise each and every year for the next five year under the Conservatives , so overall , taxis be go up , not down . figure from the Office for Budget Responsibility show that for every 10p extra in tax pay by work people , the Conservatives give only 5p back . that be why the public see the measure as a pre - election giveaway by the Conservatives — but it be no giveaway at all , give that successive Conservative Chancellors have take double what they now promise to give back . this be bad news , and not just for those already pay taxis . tax threshold be be freeze for the next five year , which will increase the tax take overall by an additional £ 40 billion , so 3 . 7 million people , include pensioner , who be not pay tax at all will do so by 2028 - 29 under the Conservatives . the tax burden be go up ; Conservative Ministers be take more in tax than they say they will give back ; and more people will pay tax after this Budget , so I have to ask : why be Conservative Ministers call this a tax - cut Budget at all ? may I gently point out that the Scottish National party be just as bad ? in Scotland , the SNP have increase taxis on work people , so that even the low pay pay more in tax in Scotland than they would in England , yet the SNP campaign against the windfall tax on the big oil and gas company . be SNP Members really put oil and gas company tax cut ahead of tax cut for work people ? rise — I be wait for an intervention from the SNP . be the hon . Gentleman an SNP Member ? I be not in the SNP , but I do like a bit of accuracy and proof . the reality be that those earn under £ 28 , 000 be not pay more tax . the hon . Gentleman ' s reference be a straight lift from an article in the Holyrood magazine . it be a very good article otherwise , but on that little bit , it be not very accurate at all . I read the article on the BBC , which I can assure the hon . Gentleman be a pretty reliable source of information . if the SNP want to tell teacher and nurse earn £ 28 , 000 a year that they be high earner , I encourage it to do so in the general election come up this year . labour first call for a windfall tax on the profit of oil and gas company in January 2022 . the Conservatives finally agree to introduce the energy profit levy in May that year , though there be significant hole in the Government ' s approach . since then , Labour Members have be press minister to close they . ahead of the general election , we have set out our plan for an energy profit levy if we win . we will increase the levy to the same rate of tax as in Norway , end the windfall tax investment allowance , and maintain the levy until the end of the next Parliament , with a statutory sunset clause , if there continue to be windfall profit . we have set out our plan now to give those operate in the North sea as much certainty as possible when make future investment decision . to give further certainty , I can put on record today that we fully support an energy security investment mechanism , and we will therefore support Budget resolution 18 today . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech about how this have be a high - tax , high - debt government , but at the same time they have be preside over low living standard . do he agree that the £ 17 rise in real weekly earning under the Conservatives be in huge contrast to wage rise by £ 183 under Labour ? while they have be preside over low living standard without any plan to sort that out , we will have high living standard and low bill under Labour . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention , which I think reflect the mood of the public . when Conservative Ministers stand up and say that we have never have it so good , people at home look at their payslip and their bank balance and realise that be not the case . let we now turn to the delusion of this Budget be a so - call long - term plan for growth . the independent evidence be clear : this will be the bad Parliament on record for living standard . it be the only Parliament where living standard have fall instead of risen , with real pay have go up by only £ 17 a week under the Conservatives , compare with £ 183 a week under the last Labour Government , as my hon . friend have just point out . the Chancellor could not bring himself to say the r - word , but the Budget document confirm that , despite 22 budget or statement from successive Conservative Chancellors over these past 14 year in which they promise they would get the economy grow , we be now in recession — a recession that for work people have be feel for some time . we have have seven quarter of downgrade growth per person extend by a further downgrade in the Budget last week . that be the long period of stagnation since the 1950 , with an economy that have shrink on a per capita basis since the Prime Minister take office and overall GDP forecast to increase only because of a dependence on migrant labour . that be quite the record for a conservative party that promise to reduce migration and get the economy grow . the issue in rural community such as mine be that growth be be hamper , despite there be demand , because hospitality and tourism business do not have a big enough workforce to support it . in the Lakes , 63 % of hospitality business be not at capacity because they do not have the staff . part of that be a result of silly visa rule , so will he look at those again ? the other reason be the lack of affordable housing for local family . would he allow local authority , and give they the finance , to once again build social rent home , so that we have enough home to enable people to work in community such as ours ? the hon . member be right . what we need be a country that create the opportunity and job for people who need they in the area in which they live , whether that be about affordable housing , deliver transport infrastructure on time and on budget — something the conservative party seem unable to do — or ensure worker have access to skill and training so that they can take the job available in their local community . the Conservatives have consistently fail on those measure , which be why they be so dependent on migrant labour to keep the economy above a recessionary level in the Budget forecast . turn to the denial of the Conservative party , its £ 46 billion a year plan to abolish national insurance contribution altogether be an irresponsible , unfunded , massive spending commitment without a plan to pay for it . the public rightly look to their national insurance contribution as the bedrock of our welfare state , where work people and their employer all contribute towards fund our national health service and the state pension . it be originally design as an insurance to give people the financial help they need during illness and unemployment . give the Conservatives ' pledge — confirm again across the Dispatch Box today — to abolish national insurance altogether , without a plan to pay for the £ 46 billion annual cost , what do they propose to cut ? will it be fund for our GPs , drive patient to pay for private health care ? will it be the right to be see in the local hospital ? maybe they will cut support towards the cost of social care , or end incapacity benefit or jobseeker ' s allowance . maybe there would even be a reduction in the state pension itself . what be it ? the public have a right to know — [ interruption . ] I will happily give way to an intervention from Ministers if they can tell we how they be go to fund their £ 46 billion tax cut . there be no intervention . the Conservatives must answer this question . after their previous Prime Minister and their previous Chancellor crash the economy through a £ 45 billion tax cut , they be now celebrate the late form of a £ 46 billion tax cut . how will it be fund ? surely not through high taxis or high borrowing , give that both be at record high already . do my hon . friend agree that the Conservatives should come clean about whether their plan to abolish £ 46 billion of national insurance contribution will mean put up taxis on work people , cut spending on public service or borrow billion , like the previous Prime Minister , and risk crash the economy again ? my hon . friend be right . minister should answer this question and I be repeatedly give they the opportunity to do so . what be the answer to the question ? how will the Conservatives fund their £ 46 billion unfunded tax cut commitment ? we can only assume , give that taxis be the high they have be for 70 year and borrowing be the high it have be for many decade , that further cut must be come from the Conservatives to our national health service and our state pension . the fact of the matter be that the Conservatives ' plan to abolish national insurance be not just fiscally irresponsible but morally abhorrent . in contrast , the Labour party will never promise to do anything it can not pay for — [ interruption . ] I seem to have wake they up on the Government Benches . I encourage they to continue to try to answer the question we put to they . my hon . friend be make a powerful case on national insurance . do he agree that the plan to abolish national insurance raise fundamental question about the future of the state pension ? even if income tax be increase by 8p in the pound to pay for it , the question of eligibility for the state pension and other contributory benefit would be very difficult to address . I thank my right hon . friend , the Chairman of the Work and Pensions Committee , for raise that important and , I might say , obvious question . the public will want to know the answer . why be Conservative Ministers not tell the Office for Budget Responsibility how they plan to pay for this £ 46 billion unfunded tax cut ? when do they plan to do so ? why can they not tell the House today how they will pay for this £ 46 billion unfunded tax cut ? the public will have to look at what the Conservatives be offer , and at their record in office over these past 14 year , and make a judgment call . I start my speech by highlight my concern for Conservative Ministers , give their obvious state of confusion , delusion and denial , but my real concern be elsewhere . my concern be for work people who be pay more in tax than ever before ; for pensioner who be drag into pay tax out of their fix income for the first time ; for family who be struggle with the cost of live crisis and see the economy go in the wrong direction ; for our national health service that be now presumably at threat from the £ 46 billion unfunded promise to abolish national insurance contribution with no plan for how to pay for it ; and for our country which , after 14 year of conservative failure , be exhaust , on its knee and stare into the abyss . we be all feed up with the weak leadership that the late conservative Prime Minister be offer our country . we be bored to the back tooth with the conservative party ' s chaos and infighting take priority over the country . we want to get our economy back on track and our public service back on their foot , to close the book on 14 year of conservative failure and to get Britain its future back . I have only one ask of the conservative party today : to set the date for the general election . as this be day four of our Budget debate , much have already be say , so I will restrict my remark to a few general comment before address some specific area . this have be a much more wide - range Budget than most commentator have note , but the most positive thing that jump out at I from all the data be the upgrading of growth forecast . I completely recognise that economic forecasting have not be easy with all the uncertainty from the pandemic and the war in Ukraine , but I think our economy be strong than most forecaster estimate and be regularly underestimate . the upward revision to the OBR forecast be large , too , with growth up by 0 . 5 percentage point in the month since the autumn statement . the recently publish business survey be also head in the right direction , all indicate increase confidence . indeed , the main message I receive from business in Harrogate and Knaresborough be how hard it be to fill vacancy . the local unemployment rate , announce today , be 1 . 9 % , which be a remarkably low figure , but it be match in other part of our country . the growth in employment be a key reason our economy have be resilient . there be over 4 million more people on payroll than there be in 2010 , which be a significant achievement . unemployment have be halve , and there be 1 million more business in the UK than in 2010 . as my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say in her opening remark , the UK ' s growth have outperform that of the other major european economy — Germany , France and Italy — and be set to do so for the next five year , but our productivity have lag badly . indeed , the " Economic Indicators " report publish by the House of Commons Library last month show that UK productivity lag german productivity by 16 % , which be a very significant gap , yet we be still outgrow Germany . that raise the question of what the impact would be on growth if we keep what be drive our economy while address the productivity gap . I be , therefore , please to see the Budget ' s focus on productivity in both the private and public sector , which I pursue as a Minister , particularly in the Treasury — once a Treasury Minister always a Treasury Minister — but we should define what it be . Productivity be not about work hard ; it be about work smarter so that there be more output from each hour work , not more hour work . the good way to drive productivity be with investment . another encouraging stat in the Budget be that business investment have rise to 10 . 6 % of GDP and be continue to grow , which be very positive . it be how our future wealth will be create , and it be also a 14 % increase compare with the level of investment under Labour . with GDP growth create a big economy and investment take a big slice , the budget involve be measure in the ten of billion . the permanent expensing announce in the autumn statement be a huge factor , and I strongly welcome the commitment to extend it to lease . this be all about make the UK more competitive and an even well place to invest and grow a business . one area that have not receive the attention it deserve over a number of year be public sector productivity the delivery of good public service require several component . one of they be budget , as the total amount spend matter , but it be not just the total amount spend . it be also about how well the money be spend . there have be huge increase in public spending , so we need to ensure transparency and accountability . we also need to ensure that fund be direct to where there be the great return and the great need , and that taxpayer achieve value for their money . there be plenty to be do on that , particularly on infrastructure , where the Government be invest so heavily — that be a different speech , but I refer the House to the excellent work of the all - party parliamentary group on infrastructure , which I coincidentally chair . it also require the Government to make the right policy choice . for example , there be a less than 2 % difference in per pupil funding between England and Wales , but english school be rise up the international league table for math and science , and we be the good in the west for read . Wales be sadly go down the league table , and it be now rank in the mid - 30 . the financial difference be a world away from the rank difference , and it come down to policy choice . the hon . Gentleman be talk about education outcome . I do not know whether he see " Newsnight " last night , but a teacher in the city of Paisley in Scotland link bad behaviour in the classroom to hunger . the teacher also speak about the difficulty of get good educational outcome amid poverty . be it not a fact that Department for Work and Pensions policy that keep family in poverty , include the two - child cap , add considerably to the problem in Wales ? it be a matter of poverty , not education . I do not see " Newsnight " last night , as I be here until very late . I be work away , as ever . our benefit system have not hold back the educational progress be make in England so , without have see the programme , I suspect that other factor be involve . the productivity of our public service remain below pre - pandemic level , which suggest that the full value of budget increase be not be realise . it be , therefore , good to hear the announcement of a public sector productivity plan in the Budget . this important initiative have the potential to be a game changer . the National Audit Office suggest that a 5 % increase in productivity be equivalent to a £ 20 billion budget increase . the Budget detailed investment to upgrade it in both the justice system and the NHS . the Chancellor reveal that 13 million hour be lose by doctor and nurse to outdated it . the sheer scale of that be phenomenal , but not in a good way . government of all colour have struggle with NHS it for year , but the world be digitise . AI will change thing even far and fast , and it be right to embrace these change and secure the benefit they will bring . it be not just about the system but about the process use , and there be an attitudinal element as well . we have to think about how output will be achieve . in the world of government in the UK we tend to measure , then trumpet , input rather than output . that do not happen in the private sector . move that thinking into the policy and delivery team so that they think more about output be critical in the long term . the most encouraging part of the Budget tackle investment and productivity . progress on those will create more wealth and well health for our future , which be why I will be support this Budget . I have a feeling it might be helpful for I to put the clock on Members . we will start with an eight - minute time limit , after the SNP spokesperson . I can say without fear of contradiction that the UK face three big challenge economically and socially : we have an energy security crisis , we have a climate crisis and we still have a cost of living crisis that need to be tackle . this Budget barely change course on any of those three measure . since 2010 , the conservative party have adopt 11 different economic strategy and have seven Business Secretaries , seven chancellor of the Exchequer and five Prime Ministers , sometimes within week of each other . after 14 year of conservative government , it be laughable that the present incumbent would present this as a Budget that will encourage investment and create long - term growth . the fact be that the UK have long have a productivity problem . figure show that the UK ' s productivity be around 20 % low than that of France or Germany . UK worker work some of the long hour in Europe , and return some of the low level of productivity . a number of very lazy assumption be make , often on the centre right of politic , around what contribute to productivity or the lack of it . who could forget the wisdom of the right hon . member for Spelthorne ( Kwasi Kwarteng ) and for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) in the book " Britannia Unchained " ? they say that " the British be among the bad idler in the world . we work among the low hour , we retire early and our productivity be poor . whereas indian child aspire to be doctor or businessman , the British be more interested in football and pop music . " those lazy prejudice , with the idea that everybody should work hard and enjoy few protection in the workplace , seem to underpin a worldview about how we get to productivity . however , the simple truth be that the only way to make a genuine improvement in productivity be to improve the quality of physical and human capital by invest in people . the Government have a massive , pivotal role to play in that . it be not good enough for the Government just to say that they want to tackle productivity issue ; they have to put in place the long - term policy to do so . despite it be nearly an article of faith in some section of the House that cut tax be the way to get there , if that come at the expense of public investment and investment in social service , we will not achieve productivity . the Chancellor have opt to use £ 20 billion of potential headroom by cut national insurance by 4p in the last few month . yet the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say that the Chancellor ' s Budget will leave public service face savage cut equivalent to £ 20 billion a year by 2028 . as the ISF director , Paul Johnson , have warn , there be almost " a conspiracy of silence " around the billion of pound in tax cut that the UK Government have prioritise and the consequence of they . we know from the shadow Chancellor , who be no long in her place , that if Labour be to alter course on that , either taxis or borrowing will have to go up , or spending will have to be cut in different place . I take issue with the Labour Front - Bench spokesperson on that subject . I be proud that the party of which I be a member be in government in Scotland . it have ensure that taxis be low for over half the people in Scotland than they would be if they live anywhere else in the UK , put money back into the pocket of hard - work people who need it most . I be proud of that . if that be where the Labour party wish to draw the battle line for the election , bring it on . I be very happy with the choice we be make . if those tax cut be to be reverse — the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) be nod away gleefully , imply that they be — then the question must go back to his colleague in the Scottish Parliament , or perhaps he can help we out — [ interruption . ] he be nod again , which be good . I look forward to some answer , and I will happily take an intervention . what part of the enhance social settlement in Scotland would the Labour party seek to take away ? be it people ' s bus pass ? Michael Marra MSP threaten to introduce tuition fee again . would Labour reverse the scottish child payment that be take over 100 , 000 scottish child out poverty ? [ interruption . ] I , too , be look for an intervention , but I be clearly not get one . the hon . member for Bristol North West be chuntere , but would he like to intervene ? I be happy to be welcome to intervene , but the debate be about the Conservative Budget here in Westminster . if the SNP have question to answer about its performance in Government , it should do so in Scotland . that be absolutely ridiculous — a complete waste of time . the reason I bring it up be that the hon . Gentleman bring it up ; clearly his memory be very short . Scotland need much more money for investment in infrastructure , the public sector and public service , but the UK Government have let we down again in this Budget . any attempt at boost productivity — that be the subject of this debate , although I do not hear a great deal of mention of productivity from either Front Bencher — will run headlong into the effect of the austerity that have be prevalent since the financial crisis of 2008 . we know from first hand the impact that austerity have have on public service across the UK . as a result of those spending choice , investment level in the UK remain the low of any country in the G7 . research by the UK in a Changing Europe group have find that investment be 10 % low than it would have be if we have remain in the EU . and that our gdp be already 5 % low . if the Government want to increase productivity and drive investment , it be clear that they to do more to recognise the vital role they have to play through their capital expenditure . capital expenditure be what maintain our infrastructure . it be what build house , replace hospital and school , maintain road and , crucially , drive and encourage private investment . it be utterly bizarre that as a consequence of their spending decision here , the UK Government will be cut the Scottish Government ' s capital budget in real term by 10 % over the next five year . another key area where the Budget do nothing to shift the dial be research and development , as I have say before . the UK lag behind our european competitor when it come to overall level of investment in research and development , but London and the south - east be take the lion ' s share of even that reduced amount . Wales and the north of England lag behind . Scotland hold its own , but if the Government genuinely want to level up — not word we hear pair with each other terribly often these day — they need to shift the dial and start to address inequality inherent in the way the Government carry out business as usual . let I turn to energy . the decision to continue the energy profit levy can only be describe as a slap in the face for all the bold and brave scottish conservative politician who be boast about how they be go to personally oppose it and get rid of it . however , the Labour proposal to increase its level further risk kill the goose that lay the golden egg . I be a big fan of the way the Norwegians have run their oil and gas sector . Scotland and the UK would be in a much well place if we have do the same , but the UK basin be close to the end of its life than much of the norwegian basin . simply say everything will be alright on the night if we tax at the same level as Norway put investment decision on a precipice . I caution the Labour party to think about that carefully if or when it form the next government . increase taxis beyond their current level in that industry risk put ten of thousand of job on the line . finally , we be all quite bored with weak leadership , but do leadership get any weak than a party take its one and only identifiable policy — invest £ 28 billion in renewable energy — and throw it on the fire because its leader be absolutely terrified of lose political ground to the weak and bad Conservative Government any of we have the misfortune to remember in our lifetime ? it be absolutely vital not just for the country , but particularly for the north - east of Scotland , to get the energy transition right . labour be absolutely correct to say that it will have a pretty dismal economic inheritance from the current UK Government , but , my goodness , what a dismal legacy labour will leave for the Government who eventually replace it if it continue on the current path . that be why Scotland need to be away from both the Labour and Conservative Front - Bench team and make decision for ourselves as a fully sovereign independent country . it be a privilege to speak in this debate today . the point that have be make so eloquently from the Government Front Bench — and will no doubt be raise by other colleague throughout the rest of this debate — cover in detail the content of the Budget . I be particularly pleased for Warner Brothers , Leavesden , in my constituency , for the benefit that be provide to ensure that the film industry would thrive in this country . but I wish to concentrate today on productivity , and I will do so by keep my speech short and by focus on one particular area of passion for I , which be the support give for technology within the NHS . the NHS chief executive have acknowledge that significant investment to fund new technology will unlock ten of billion of pound of saving , but there be particular area that we need to look at when consider that investment . I refer in particular to the role play by digital and other technology in the health arena . on several occasion , I have be proud to visit the virtual ward and the virtual hospital that the team at Watford General have be develop . that work have be truly groundbreake . it mean that especially during covid , when this initiative start , patient be able to be look after in their own home with their family around they rather than be on a ward . from an NHS perspective , that free up bed and nurse ' and doctor ' time . from the patient ' s perspective , they have the comfort of be in their own home while know that the technology be there to support they and ensure that they be be monitor and watch with the good possible device . I have also see amazing work at Watford General on robot - assist surgery . as I understand it , this can both lead to quick healing time and ensure the precision of the surgery . I have the opportunity to use one of the machine a while ago , and its level of accuracy be absolutely incredible . however , the area on which I wish to focus be the role of artificial intelligence . I have a few ask of the Minister , but I be aware that he may not be able to respond to they , because I appreciate that they fall more within the remit of the Department of Health and Social Care . when we look at digital health , it be important to make sure that we see the benefit of what may come , as well as the benefit that be already here . crucially , we need to make sure that , when it come to the use of AI in healthcare , we be mindful not only of the benefit and opportunity , but of the risk that it might bring . increasingly , as I see it , one of the risk concern the digital divide . I ask that , when we put this investment into technology and the NHS , we do not have a grow divide between those who have the ability to use the technology and those who do not . I also ask that , when we be develop these tool , we do not just cut off the ability to provide face - to - face support for those who want it , or stop those who want to go in and see a receptionist face to face . we should use the extra time that be available as a result of some people use technology to provide other with access to face - to - face appointment . furthermore , there be a great opportunity here to develop a data donor scheme . I have propose that before , but I be not sure whether I have do so from these Benches . at the moment , when somebody sadly pass away , they may be able to save other people ' s live through organ donation . however , many of we have Apple watch or fitbit that collect datum every day , which would no doubt be invaluable to AI , or to gps and clinician who diagnose and treat various condition . there be great scope within this investment to look at a data donation scheme . imagine if each of we could anonymously donate datum on our heartbeat or our health attribute when we have take a new drug and share it with the NHS , so that it could be use as part of clinical trial and research . that could transform the way that we look at cure cancer and improve the health of the nation , but it could also help we to identify potential risk that we may not have see before . this investment , along with the £ 100 million that have be invest in the Turing Institute , will provide a great opportunity to look at how we can use AI in a well way . another important area be how we educate the public in the use of AI and datum . one thing that I be conscious of , and that I have speak about from these Benches before — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Angus Brendan MacNeil ) have just remind I of my productivity pledge — yes , I be try to keep to it . we need to make sure that people know when they be use this technology , especially give the rise in chatbot and AI tool that pretend to be human when they be not . it be essential that the public know when such tool be be use . any Government or any NHS system should have a very clear watermark , note or reminder to let people know that they be not speak to a human being , but that they be actually use AI . that will help to demystify the use of technology , make people feel more comfortable , and ensure that we inform those who do not want to use it for good reason . I hugely welcome this Budget . the tax cut have be essential , and all of we on the Government Benches be keen to make sure that we reduce taxis . I be also keen on all the benefit that we have see . but we need to make sure that we make the most of technology , see the benefit of it and help the nation to become healthy and happy for it . I think it be pretty accurate to say that this will be the last Budget speech that I make in this House . I have just work out that this Chancellor be the 14th since I come into the House in 1979 , and that this be the 50th Budget that I have sit through . there should be some sort of medal for that . I be always tempt in these debate to go back to my origin as an economist at the London School of Economics . I think that be a hard and tough place to learn economic than Pembroke College , Cambridge — at least from what I have hear from those on the Front Bench today . there be a tendency among those of we with such a background to look at the detail . I want to look not so much at the detail today , but at the two broad issue that have be totally miss in this vital Budget . many conservative Members be hope for a post - budget boost . well , I always use to counsel my colleague that we can never know how a Budget have go down until the Sunday paper be out , but in this case do we need time to reflect for long ? we have hear that 10 % of the population believe that they will be well off after the Budget , that 20 % think they will be far bad off , and most tellingly , that 58 % of the public feel that the Budget will make no difference to their life at all . so there be no Budget bounce here . however , I do not want to talk about that ; I want to talk about the two big issue that be not even mention . the most important thing for all human being on this planet be global warming and climate change . the Chancellor do not mention the word climate change in his whole speech . there be nothing in that Budget that would give hope to those of we who have be campaign for year to stop the global warming that will destroy human life on this planet . nothing in this Budget will help we to meet that terrible existential challenge . I sometimes get tease when I point out that I be bear during the blitz of London , around the same time that this place be bomb and destroy . I do not know my father for six year , because he go off to serve in the war . those of we who come from that generation look at our defence spending and preparedness with horror . I say yesterday that former Ministers and Back Benchers from the conservative party — the party of Winston Churchill and Margaret Thatcher — have point out that there be a serious cut to the defence budget smuggle into the Budget . those comment be from the Government ' s side . those two issue be not confront in the Budget . People in this country be not short - termist , although they want a well life and low taxis , and to drive great productivity . we all remember the productivity driver , George Osborne , so I say to Government Members : do not talk to we about productivity failure . the fact of the matter be that there be nothing in the Budget about get manufacturing go again or about link our wonderful university researcher with small business to tackle climate change , develop hydrogen power and look at the way in which clever human being can and will ensure that this planet be safe to live on . whoever be in government must wake up to the fact that that ghastly man , the leader of Russia , be not go away and will persist in undermine our institution , not just in term of arm and by encroach on territory across Europe , but through his pernicious ability to use social medium and other mean of undermine democracy in this country and worldwide . I grow up passionately influence by the democracy of the United States . when I be a student , I emigrate to the United States , basically because that be the only way I would not get deport for work as a student . I admire and love the United States as a champion of freedom and democracy , but our great ally be in deep trouble . the ghastly ex - President Trump — a man who do not believe in special relationship with anyone , especially our country — look like he might come back again . he do not believe in the relationship with NATO and in stand up to the foe of democracy in China and Russia . we should be ashamed if we do not talk about those two issue in the Budget debate and if the government do not make the wherewithal available , first , to confront climate change and global warming and , secondly , to secure the defence of our country . as I say , this will be my last Budget speech . I have love speak in this House . everyone know that I love interject at Question Time . these be serious time , and I hope we all remember that the big issue — climate change , the future of our planet and the defence of our country — be hard to tackle because they be expensive . some on the Labour Benches sometimes do not grapple with that fact , but we must be honest : if we want this country to be secure and have great defence , we have to pay for it . all of we in this House must learn that lesson . I will deal with just two aspect of productivity , as that be the theme of today ' s Budget . I will first talk about the vat threshold . small and medium - sized enterprise be the backbone of our economy , both nationally and locally . they not only provide job that hard - work family depend on but be the key to turbocharge productivity across the UK and level up our region and nation . that could not be more true than in my constituency , where sme be responsible for the lion ' s share of business activity and employment . the past few year have be particularly challenge for sme , as they have have to navigate various thing such as the covid - 19 pandemic and the commodity shortage and inflationary pressure bring on by the war in Ukraine . I have therefore be fiercely vocal about the need to do all we can to support they . I know the Government have be work hard to protect and support business as much as possible through these time , recognise the need to fulfil our responsibility to get the economy back on track . I therefore welcome a number of the announcement in the Budget — in particular , the decision to increase the vat registration threshold to £ 90 , 000 from 1 April 2024 . as the Chancellor say in his speech , I have be press for that as it will support business with the administrative and financial impact of vat charge . it will ensure they can earn more before pay vat and spend more time work . hairdressing and hospitality sector business in Loughborough raise that point with I , and I in turn bring it to the attention of the Chancellor and Business Ministers . the increase in the threshold will mean that those business can earn more money before any vat be due . that will not only mean that hard - work business owner will get the opportunity to earn more before tax but that self - employ trade will be able to complete more work before attract vat charge to their contract . as the Chancellor say in his Budget speech , " the way to improve public service be not always more money or more people ; we also need to run they more efficiently . we need a more productive state , not a big state . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 846 . ] the announcement of the public sector productivity programme to reform the delivery of frontline public service and improve productivity be welcome . the Government say that alongside that programme a £ 230 million pilot will be establish to " roll out cutting - edge technology such as live facial recognition , automation and the use of drone as first responder . " they also say : " the government will establish a Centre for Police Productivity to support police force ' use of datum and deliver this technology , maximise productivity and the use of AI . " again , I say to my hon . friend the Minister that we do not always need more money . I would be interested to hear from he whether the remit of that centre will extend to look at way to reduce the reaction burden place on police officer due to data protection requirement . as I have say a number of time in the House , the Data Protection Act 2018 contain no provision to facilitate the free flow of personal datum between the police and the Crown Prosecution Service . when the police be prepare a case file for a charge decision , they have to analyse the information gather by investigate officer in order to identify every item of personal datum , decide whether it be necessary for the CPS to consider each item when make its decision , and redact every item that do not meet that test . those obligation delay and obstruct the expeditious progress of the criminal justice system , and in some case add to the likelihood that the victim will withdraw their support . much of that data be never even use by the CPS if it decide not to charge or the defendant plead guilty before trial . nationally , about 25 % of case submit to the CPS be not charge . the Police Federation of England and Wales have estimate that , on average , a staggering 365 , 000 policing hour be consume in comply with redaction obligation . that equate to an annual cost to the taxpayer of more than £ 5 . 6 million . the Government have previously highlight their support for the use of technology to reduce that burden . however , that would go only so far and would still require police officer to oversee that work . the good solution would be to change the law so that the redaction of personal datum by the police could occur after , rather than before , the CPS have make a charge decision . in that way , only case that be to go forward for prosecution will have be work on . that practical solution would prevent the waste of time by police officer , who can then spend more time on the beat — something that my constituent ask for in a recent crime survey that I undertake in Loughborough . the Government have be clear that it be necessary to reduce administrative burden on public sector worker and boost productivity . this change , unlike roll out new technology , would cost nothing to implement but would save a substantial amount of taxpayer ' money and get police officer back on the frontline support community and tackle crime . those be the two aspect that I want to look at . I want to focus on investment , or the lack of it , in public service . good delivery of public service depend in large part on the state of local government . the sector face a £ 1 . 6 billion funding gap in 2024 - 25 and service be crumble , yet there be no mention of specific council measure in the Budget . give the state of local service up and down the country , I be disappoint that the Government do not announce any plan to adequately fund the service that people rely on every day . council continue to transform service , but give that the core spending power for 2024 - 25 have be cut by 23 . 3 % in real term since 2010 , it be unsustainable to expect they to keep do more for less in the face of unprecedented cost and demand pressure . it be also unsustainable to put further pressure on local council tax payer , who be again be ask to pay more for less , with money be take out of their pocket . this year see the sixth one - year settlement in a row for council . keep council on that financial drip - feed lead to the steady weakening of local service . social care be suffer significantly , as service experience an unprecedented increase in demand and cost . three of the most impact area for rise cost be child ' s social care , where budget pressure be up by 13 . 6 % in the last year ; home to school transport for child with special educational need and disability , where budget requirement be up by 23 . 3 % in 2023 - 24 ; and adult social care , where increase demand mean that budgetary spend be up by £ 2 . 5 billion , or 12 . 8 % , in 2023 - 24 . if such service can not be deliver effectively locally , pressure inevitably fall on the NHS . I recently meet the East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust to discuss the most prescient issue after be contact by constituent who have wait for hour on trolley and in room without receive attention . in recent month , the trust have experience an increase in people regularly attend hospital . worryingly , demand have exceed capacity , result in patient face exceptionally long wait and a suboptimal experience . we have a great headline when the East Lancashire Hospital NHS Trust secure capital funding for an additional 27 - bed ward at Royal Blackburn Hospital this year , but £ 3 . 9 million of revenue be require to enable it to be staff , and there be no indication as to where that money — or , indeed , the staff — be come from . it be yet another Tory headline when our service be actually crumble . last Wednesday represent a vital opportunity for the Government to take action and put palliative and end of life care on a more sustainable footing and ensure that everyone affect by terminal illness receive the good possible care and support . as our population age , too many people be die in pain , in poverty and alone , and 84 % of Marie Curie ' s caring service staff have care for patient who be struggle with the cost of living . we need a sustainable and long - term funding solution for palliative and end of life care . this be a core component of our health and care system that be so often neglect . I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the brilliant East Lancashire Hospice in my constituency , which continue to provide exceptional care through these very difficult time . however , many people be not so lucky . shamefully , one in four do not get the end of life care and support that they desperately need — 150 , 000 people every year . last year , the Government release £ 1 . 5 billion in additional funding to integrate care board to account for inflationary pressure . once again , that make a great headline , but there be nothing for the hospice . East Lancashire Hospice receive an uplift of 0 % , which equate to 10 % in cut . once again , this have prove to be another empty headline devoid of any substance . as we all know , the long - term financial sustainability of the NHS be dependent upon investment in wide public service , which heavily influence the determinant of an individual ' s health . investment be essential in public service that shape health outcome from birth , such as education , transport and housing . those service be cry out for investment , but the Government have turn a blind eye . the Government have show clearly and starkly where their priority lie . this Budget confirm that the Tories have fail public service after 14 year of economic failure . the Budget prioritise short - term election promise over the future of local government , the NHS and our public service . we be promise a Budget for long - term growth , but what we actually receive be a Budget that reflect long - term decline under this Conservative Government . since the Chancellor deliver his budget last week , I have give a lot of thought to the subject of productivity and how we address it . there be three key ingredient that create the most fertile environment for productivity to grow : aspiration , skill and secure housing . aspiration can be nurture in many way , but a significant part of that must be to reward work by ensure that people keep as much of the money they earn as possible . this be a core conservative value . in recent year , the Treasury have be right to put support for family and business first . the obvious example of that be support for business through grant , and support for employee through the furlough scheme during the pandemic . alongside that , there have be additional money for the NHS and for school — both vital public service for any household . I be sure that many of my constituent will be delighted and relieve at the cut in national insurance . it be right that individual keep more of their hard - earn money . do my hon . friend agree that we must continue to look for responsible way to ensure that those who be work hard and contribute to our economy keep as much of their wage as possible ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I also think it be perfectly reasonable to have an ambition that we can work towards make a commitment . support for household energy bill have also be essential , but obviously it have put pressure on the nation ' s finance . these measure hinder the Government ' s ability to cut taxis , but productivity be compromise if the burden on business and our workforce be too great . it be good , then , that the Government be now able to far address the pressure on household finance far . this year ' s cut in pay - as - you - earn taxis for the average worker from 32 % to 28 % mean that household in west Cornwall , on Scilly and across the nation will benefit by keep more of what they earn . this be a helpful tool to support the aspiration that Conservative Members want our constituent to enjoy . the increase in the vat threshold for small business be something that I have be keen to see ever since I be elect . personally , I would like it to be increase to £ 120 , 000 as soon as possible . I see the drag of vat on small business in my constituency , which be curtail their business in order to avoid the cliff - edge threshold . the increase to £ 90 , 000 be welcome and will encourage small business to stay open for long , especially in hospitality in coastal community such as Penzance and on Scilly . not only will the business stay open long ; owner will also be able to offer more secure employment and look to grow their business — both of which will benefit Government coffer and drive aspiration . to support aspiration , we also need to support skill . wherever we look , we see a shortage of the skill we need : in food and farming , renewable , house building and retrofitting , engineering and manufacturing , health and social care , tourism and hospitality , education , and many more area . I listen carefully to the speech make by the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) , include his comment about climate change . address climate change be about change the way we do and make thing , so the Chancellor be right to announce in his Budget a furth £ 120 million to support the expansion of low - carbon manufacturing , which will support the creation of job and skill that have not even be invent yet for our school leaver . also , to far address the climate change issue , the Chancellor have commit £ 427 million to support investment in agriculture , productivity and innovation . that will secure a farming sector that have provide skilled and local job to people across Cornwall and on Scilly for generation , and will continue to do so . for too long , british business have miss out on an untapped pool of talent , so it be good to hear the Chancellor set out measure to offer new training opportunity for out - of - work old people and confirm the continuation of the " train and progress " element of universal credit , which will also give people a fighting chance to get the skill they need and will help meet the workforce shortage I describe . as I say , for far too long , we have not allow many people to access the work they can do , and have miss out on that pool of talent . finally , Conservatives have for year believe in the power of home ownership to give people the opportunity to take a stake in their community , raise child in a secure home , and invest in and improve that home use local skill and local supplier . the various measure that the Government be take to make the housing market fairer for people who want to live and work in our community be very welcome . own a home help to drive productivity : there be nothing quite so tangible and motivating as the sense that hard work can enable someone to provide a safe and secure home for they and their loved one . as the Government support council and social landlord to create the home we need , will they take a close look at how accessible so - call affordable home be to local constituent such as mine ? for example , property advertise in Cornwall as three - bedroom affordable home be market at £ 335 , 000 , and two - bedroom so - call affordable home be market at £ 265 , 000 . few people in my constituency be in a position to afford that , and they be effectively abandon into a rental market that be in great demand . Productivity be achieve in a low - tax , high - skilled society where a home of your own be within reach . I welcome this Budget ' s direction of travel , and ask for much more of the same . as I be say , Madam Deputy Speaker . even in Parliament , you can not be a maiden twice , but I hope you will permit I a moment of my eight minute to pay tribute to my predecessor , Tony Lloyd — as he be when I first meet he at the Labour party conference more than 40 year ago . he , a young , left - wing engineering union delegate ; I , even young , from the Transport and General Workers ' Union . we become fast friend then , and remain so through all the decade . we march together against nuclear weapon and against the repeat massacre in Gaza at the hand of the israeli occupation force . we vote in the Lobby together against the renewal of Trident submarine . Tony Lloyd be a significant figure who should never be forget in this House , and certainly will not be forget in the Greater Manchester area where he be bear and where he practise his sincere political artistry over so many year . the Labour party , of course , be not the party today that it be back then , as I will say in this speech and , I hope , in late speech — if God spare I and you allow I to catch your eye , Madam Deputy Speaker . the only thing that unite the entire town of Rochdale be antipathy towards the Labour council in the beautiful , new , refurbish town hall . that be something we intend to change just a few week from now at the local election , but notwithstanding the poor odour of the Labour party in the town , everyone respect and admire Tony Lloyd — Sir Tony Lloyd , as he be to become . I be grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to begin my address in this way on the seventh time I have be elect to Parliament . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be bright and breezy , but frankly all the spice in Rochdale could not give flavour to what can only be describe as an absolute nothingburger of a Budget , and the response from the so - call Opposition in this House be equally vacuous . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , bridle when the SNP accuse he of accept the Tories ' spending limit , but he have no right to bridle , because everything that be be say by the Leader of the Opposition and the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer , the right hon . member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , accept the economic orthodoxy of the Conservative Government . look where those economic orthodoxy have lead we . the Minister talk breezily about child get help where they need it , and about busy doctor and nurse in the NHS . what about we in Rochdale ? we have a new infirmary that be like a ghost town . in Rochdale , you can not give birth ; no one in Gracie Fields ' s hometown will ever again be able to say that they be bear in Rochdale , unless unfortunately they be bear in a taxi on their way to Bury or Oldham . we do not even have a postcode ; our postcode be OL , a subdivision of Oldham . this town , which be once one of the most prosperous in England , be now one of the poor , abandon not just by the Government but by the Mayor of Greater Manchester . I have no animus against the Mayor — quite the contrary , at least until recent week — but he have to understand that he be the Mayor of Greater Manchester , not just Manchester . what about the town around Manchester that get a raw deal ? imagine a town where you can not be bear and can not die — they have also take away the A & E service . my campaign , in which I garner more vote than the Conservatives , Labour , the Liberal Democrats and Reform UK put together , prove my point , which be that out in the country , most people wish a plague on both their house — on both the Conservatives and Labour . " two cheek of the same backside " be the most popular phrase I have ever coin , because it so aptly describe not just the general political situation , but the debate on this Budget . you can not even be bang up in Rochdale ; if a person get arrest there , there be not even a police cell there that they can be take to . in the campaign , an old lady in a care home fall ill — take a turn . the ambulance take 45 minute to reach she , and then do not know where it be go to take she . her relative , gather around anxiously , do not know where she would go . the ambulance driver have to find out which a & E in the Greater Manchester area they could take she to . what if it take she 45 minute to get to A & E ? I have no idea what might have become of she . we be a town that have be abandon by the state , and be increasingly abandon by the Mayor of Greater Manchester . half , or 50 % , of the child in two of the big ward in the parliamentary constituency be officially live in poverty — half ! what be there in the Budget for they , despite all the Government ' s chuntering , josh and japing , which be match by that of the opposition ? what be in the Budget for those poor child who need help , though no help be forthcoming ? level of child poverty in Rochdale be among the bad in the entire country . my goodness , I have 14 second leave ; how time fly . I just want to say that have give both party a good spanking on 29 February , I have my boot on to give they a good kicking any time I catch your eye , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think we have probably all learn a bit more about Rochdale , and I be sure that we all at least agree with the comment of the hon . member for Rochdale ( George Galloway ) about his predecessor , Tony Lloyd . when I ask my constituent what they want , ahead of the Budget , their answer be very clear : taxis cut , help for small business , action to grow the economy , and support for our NHS . this Budget deliver against their priority , despite the challenge the economy have face in the last few year from the pandemic and the illegal war in Ukraine . as a conservative , I want low taxis , and I want people to keep more of the money they earn . now that there be the opportunity to reduce taxis , I welcome the further cut in national insurance , which will benefit 29 million people across the country . it will mean that a nurse ' s income rise by over £ 1 , 000 . a typical teacher will be well off by £ 1 , 200 , and a self - employ plumber by £ 846 . importantly , give that we have vacancy in the economy , the measure be predict to get the equivalent of a further 220 , 000 people into work ; that will give more people the benefit of a job , and help to grow our economy . although inflation continue to fall and the target of halve it have be more than meet , there be rightly further support with the cost of living . in my rural constituency of North West Norfolk , driving be a necessity , not a luxury . maintain the 5p cut to fuel duty and freeze rate for the 14th year in a row will help driver as they fill up . in April , the national living wage will increase by almost 10 % . that come alongside a boost to support for private rent for those on low income . from talk to constituent ahead of the Budget , I know how important the household support fund have be in help people across Norfolk . I argue for its continuation , and I be delighted that the Chancellor have provide an extra £ 500 million of target support to help with essential , include food and energy . in early speech , it have be suggest that pensioner have be forget by this Government . let ' s just correct that , shall we ? last year , the state pension be increase by 10 . 1 % . in April , protect by the triple lock introduce by this government , it will increase by 8 . 5 % . inflation be set to near its target of 2 % in only a few month ' time . that represent a boost of £ 900 for pensioner . in addition , nearly 12 million fuel payment and pensioner cost of living payment be be make this winter to protect the most vulnerable . there be also pension credit . I have encourage all my constituent and other to check whether they be eligible for it , and we have see a big uptake as a result . pensioner can be reassure that the Government have their back , and we will continue to provide dignity for they in retirement . reduce tax be also important . my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) and I — and a number of other member , it would appear — want an increase in the vat threshold for small firm . the threshold be a barrier to growth , and have talk to company in my constituency , I know that they be close their door to avoid go over the threshold . that issue be estimate to affect about 44 , 000 firm bunch just below the threshold , so increase it to £ 90 , 000 a year will help more business , and it mean that we have the high threshold in Europe . on change to furnished holiday let , which I be sure hon . friend from Cornwall will come on to , it be important that we get the detail right , so that we support local people who wish to buy and rent home , but also continue to support our leisure , hospitality and tourism business . grow such business and the economy mean invest in place , and the £ 20 million of additional funding for King ' s Lynn be very welcome . it will support project to boost the high street , improve transport and connectivity , and boost heritage and regeneration . that come on top of the £ 50 million of regeneration funding already secure through the town deal and the levelling - up fund . that be a further commitment by this Conservative Government to create more opportunity in Lynn and across west Norfolk . as well as reduce taxis , we need to cut regulation . since 2010 , we have have a record of success in remove much of the thicket that be introduce by the Labour party when it use regulation as a proxy for taxation to control business . while we be talk about make our economy more productive , there be a need for a renew focus on regulation to ensure that it promote growth , competition and innovation . as a member of the Regulatory Reform Group — found by my hon . friend the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , who have just leave his place — I be pleased to see the focus in the Budget on this agenda . extend the growth duty to Ofcom , Ofwat and Ofgem , and great benchmarking to hold regulator to account and improve performance , will benefit we all . company and wealth creator should be well aware that the Labour party have plan to go in a different direction . it will put in place many measure that will frustrate they , produce more inflexibility in our labour market , and make it hard for they to grow and take on staff . finally , public sector productivity may seem like a very dry topic , but get back to pre - covid level would save taxpayer £ 20 billion a year . with health take an increase share of our national wealth , we need to make the NHS far more efficient , and the £ 3 . 4 billion be invest in technology and other reform will help achieve that . by embed those gain across the wide public sector , we can control the size of the state . simply spend more and more money — ultimately , that have to be pay for by taxis and borrowing , as the Labour party propose — be unsustainable , and will not lead to well public service . to conclude , this Budget deliver tax cut for work people , help motorist to keep cost down , boost small business , support family , and invest in the NHS and in improve public service . it be a Conservative Budget that I be proud to support . rise — order . to ensure that I can keep the time limit relatively high , I be reduce it to seven minute . I hope that will mean that we do not have to reduce it drastically later . seven be my favourite number , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) . it be a fact that when we speak in the Budget debate , which be the bread and butter of our work , we may not get the hearing we want . we have to live with the sad fact that the song " murder on the Dancefloor " will be stream more than our speech , or maybe just my speech . I refer hon . member to a line from that song : " well not steal the move " . however , it seem the Chancellor do , because he abolish non - dom status — a move that have be trail for some time by the Opposition . I suppose imitation be the sincere form of flattery . I say to the resident of Walsall that , yes , we can work within the fiscal envelope , but our choice will be different . what do the Chancellor actually do to solve the problem of the country ? nothing . he say nothing about hedge fund manager have make £ 53 billion in profit for investor . why be that not harness for society ? the water company pour effluent into our river . they break the law , and award themselves £ 10 million in bonus and £ 14 million in incentive payment , but they want to charge we £ 156 extra to plug a financial gap . what would we do ? we would end self - monitoring and force company to monitor every single outlet , so that they can not cover up illegal sewage dumping . the Chancellor mention a new tax on vaping — we have see vape shop proliferate on the high street — and the freezing of alcohol duty , which help pub , but he say nothing about the high street . those work on the high street work during the pandemic and beyond , and they still face abuse in work , but there be nothing for they . they be on low pay or in insecure work . he could have give they the real living wage , base on the cost of living . there be nothing for the high street that would help retailer compete with online business . what about local government ? school be struggle with dilapidated , toxic building or a lack of staff . the staff be pay less than they would be for work for an online company , so when they leave school , they go and work for that company . special educational need pupil be be fail . council still have to bid for money . Walsall Council can not even respond to fly - tipping , manage tree or invest in a rat - catcher . that be a public health issue and affect people ' s life . People need to know the connection : the Government cut the grant to local authority , and the council be force to raise council tax just to stand still . there may be a cut in national insurance , but people will have to pay for it through increase council tax . as a lawyer and a member of the Law Society , I know that the legal system be shaky . it be the quiet and calm place where dispute be settle . it be there to keep community safe and it be worth £ 60 billion . there be a dearth of duty solicitor . legal firm be small and medium - sized enterprise , and they be struggle to attract staff . will the Minister work with the Law Society and support firm to increase civil legal aid so that they can give people the right advice to prevent their become homeless , as well as give opportunity for legal apprentice to make their way in career in the law ? what about the NHS ? the Government be only fund additional role . NHS Facts and Stats state that England do not have a shortage of GPs , but rather a practice funding shortage , with a 20 % reduction in pound per patient since 2016 . what would labour do ? the shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have say that we would deal with waste : the £ 1 . 7 billion spend on hospital bed because patient can not be discharge ; the £ 3 . 5 be pay to recruitment agency because the Government have fail to train enough staff ; the £ 626 million spend by the Department of Health and Social Care on management consultant . far , £ 1 billion could be save through bulk buying equipment . we have not even start on the personal protective equipment fiasco ! we would work in partnership with business in the private sector , just as we announce yesterday for the national wealth fund , so that for every £ 1 the public sector spend , £ 1 be raise in the private sector from the green finance initiative . from the international situation , our constituent be numb to just get by with the cost of living . we say to they : " we believe in you . we will give you the skill and your right at work . we will do what be need for public service and support you with a safety net as need . we believe in you and support you to live safe , happy , productive and secure life . " we have hear it say many time in this Chamber that the first duty of any Government be to protect and safeguard the life of their citizen . that premise be almost exclusively quote during debate relate to the defence of the realm , yet it can just as easily be apply to our discussion about investment in target public health measure . if a person be only as productive as their health permit , it must follow that the productivity of UK plc be determine by the state of the nation ' s health . in a country where nearly 26 % of the entire adult population be class as obese , with around 6 . 4 million people still smoke , and more than 100 million work day in the private sector alone lose to sickness absence each year , we can no long afford to ignore the threat that preventable disease such as cancer and diabete pose to the UK economy and the impact that they undoubtedly have on national productivity . I welcome the headline measure in the Budget aim at boost productivity , include the change that my right hon . friend the Chancellor make to child benefit that will see more than 170 , 000 family gain around £ 1 , 260 in child support . with the further 2 % reduction in national insurance , the average person in work will now be well off by more than £ 900 . I be immensely proud to be a member of a party that be serious in its ambition for the UK to become smokefree within a generation . that be clearly demonstrate by measure to increase tax on tobacco product , with the result that on average the price of a packet of cigarette have now top £ 16 . the Chancellor be also set to introduce a new duty on vape product to discourage more adult from become hook on harmful nicotine product . together with other measure announce by the Government , that will end the scene that we currently see outside school gate up and down our country , in which child , some as young as nine year old , be be draw to vaping by the rainbow range of colour and flavour target specifically at they . vaping product should only ever be use as an aid to stop smoking , not as a fashion accessory or as confectionery . we could , however , have go far in tackle preventable disease — something that I and many other survivor of skin cancer across the House , include the hon . member for East Dunbartonshire ( Amy Callaghan ) , have be lobby for . Cancer Research UK estimate that almost 90 % of skin cancer be preventable by use sunscreen with a factor of 30 and above . research commission by Tesco show that 57 % of UK adult think that high - factor sunscreen be too expensive and they can not afford to buy it . vat revenue on sunscreen be in the region of £ 335 million , yet skin cancer be anticipate to cost the NHS alone £ 465 million every year . when we factor in the additional cost to business associate with day off and lose productivity , the Exchequer could realise a huge net benefit . business in my constituency have highlight Erewash ' s road , which come under ever increase pressure from the sheer volume of traffic try to access the M1 , as a major barrier to raise productivity . I be lead the campaign to secure and integrate an additional motorway junction between junction 25 and 26 . that would not only help to ease congestion on critical route through Ilkeston , Stanton by Dale , Sandiacre , Risley and Long Eaton , but would greatly improve access for hgv transport freight to and from the New Stanton Park development . that type of major infrastructure project can be realise only with financial backing from the Treasury , so I urge the Chancellor seriously to consider that proposal when he return to the House later in the year for his autumn statement . I thank the Chancellor for include Erewash in the late round of investment to level up the midland and the north . Erewash be already incredibly lucky to play host to a number of cultural event each year , include the Ilkeston heritage and classic vehicle show , Long Eaton carnival , and the charter fair . in addition , cultural hub such as the Duchess theatre and Erewash museum , and local landmark such as the iconic Bennerley viaduct , be responsible for bring thousand of visitor to Erewash , and provide a welcome boost to the local economy . have secure that new £ 5 million investment , we must now use this exciting opportunity to build on and expand exist cultural facility , invest in new project to bring our community together , and preserve more of our cultural heritage for future generation . Guidance issue by the Government to local authority in relation to that investment state that they must consult their Member of Parliament about how the money can be well use . I believe that it be time for our role in the consultation process , and for those type of scheme to be put on a more permanent , statutory footing . finally , although a lady should never reveal her age , I must nevertheless declare an interest as someone of pensionable age . many will remember Labour ' s pension raid , which be estimate to have cost investor around £ 230 billion while at the same time increase the state pension by a mere 75p . as former Chancellor George Osborne say : " it will be up to we to rebuild a pension system that have be comprehensively , single - handedly destroy by Gordon Brown " . and so we have . the Chancellor ' s commitment to maintain the triple lock mean that the state pension will be uprate by 8 . 5 % from April , build on the 10 . 1 % uprating for the current year . indeed the state pension have rise by 31 % since 2019 . to conclude , this sensible , balanced Budget be stick to the plan that target productivity , support those who have work their entire life and provide further investment in community such as Erewash . I look forward to support the Budget in the Lobby . I start with a confession , Madam Deputy Speaker : this speech may be familiar to anyone who hear my Budget speech last year , because it be pretty much the same one . the reason be that despite a year pass , the UK Government be no far forward — another Budget , another Red Book . I note that this year , under the heading " Agriculture " in paragraph 4 . 24 of the Red Book , the Government touch upon drainage board , and investment in water and flood management . I plead with they : manage it as nature would . trap the water in the hill . promote capture and slow release . encourage and support council to plant green area in the appropriate place . do not think that we can concrete our way through this problem . in my constituency of Inverclyde , with the help of Clyde Muirshiel park , local farmer and the Yearn Stane project be re - establish peatland , which will reduce flooding , create an environment for nature to flourish , and be accessible for people to walk and cycle . this be be do by help nature to do what it do good , and undo the damage that be cause by drain the land for grouse shoot all those year ago . under the heading " Green industry " — paragraph 4 . 51 of the Red Book — the Government be throw some sizeable chunk of money at lower carbon emission , but there be two error in this rather small section . first , it mention nuclear as a " critical part " of the Government ' s plan to decarbonise power . it be worth note that build Sizewell C will create 6 . 24 million tonne of carbon equivalent co2 ; that be one hell of a price to pay for a build that be not need . secondly , if we want to decarbonise our energy sector , stimulate agriculture , reduce plastic waste , reduce landfill , improve our environment and increase agricultural yield , why be there absolutely no mention whatsoever of hemp ? this be where my speech start to sound familiar , but I be tell very early in my time here that there be nothing wrong with repetition . I want this Government to help an industry that employ local people , could generate huge profit , pay its taxis to the Exchequer and help to offset the environmental damage that we be do to our precious planet . that industry would be a win - win - win scenario . what well way to grow an economy and help the local community , if not by create job so that people have a disposable income to spend locally , and benefit the local community and all associate supply chain ? hemp : the evidence have be available for century — indeed , it be promote and even enforce by King Henry VIII in the 16th century . back then , a quarter of all arable land be dedicate to grow hemp , but there be still people who walk among we who hear and fear recreational cannabis when we say " hemp " . that be bear out of ignorance . the most recent example have to be when the UK Home Office take action to stop the export of product to the UK from the Jersey - base firm , Jersey Hemp . Jersey Hemp have work for three year to ensure it meet every UK Government compliance standard , and the UK Government go behind its back to the Jersey authority to stop Jersey Hemp operate . after month of legal action in the UK court , the Home Office have finally admit that it act unlawfully in relation to Jersey Hemp . I be limited in what I can say , but no amount of compensation will help Jersey Hemp , which have be wipe out by the action of the UK Government . I only mention that case because it be symptomatic of the UK Government ' s lack of vision and lack of understanding when it come to the hemp plant . in the 16th century , hemp production be encourage to manufacture rope and canvas for the King ' s Navy , but now we can make clothing , shoe , biodegradable plastic , insulation panel , food , paper and biofuel . the Government be currently spend billion retrofit home through the ECO4 and ECO + scheme , but they be use product make from petrochemical , which release harmful voc — volatile organic compound — emission into the air of the building . why not allow local farmer to grow hemp and supply the local contractor with carbon - negative natural fibre alternative at scale ? what would be a well use of public money ? in fact , there be 50 , 000 know use for the hemp plant . find market for hemp would not be a problem ; grow it be . it will sell , it will be profitable , and the Government could reap the benefit . however , because of the inflexibility of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 , company can have their bank account seize and asset frozen , and that fear be stop investment . the ignorance have permeate the stock exchange and , as a result , it have be dismissive of approach from the business sector and myself . the Government should be lead the charge , not cower in the corner . they should be promote the fact that hemp absorb 22 tonne per hectare of atmospheric carbon during its four - month grow cycle , and produce four time the biomass of the same sized area of forest , make it a far more sustainable source material . Hemp do not need pesticide , insecticide or fertiliser to grow in the UK , and it have natural antimicrobial property , so it passively clean the air in building . Hemp have high capacity for moisture absorption , allow for a control atmosphere within building , and hemp construction material act as a long - term carbon sink . a £ 60 million investment would create a facility capable of grow 32 , 000 acre per year . that would sequester over 207 , 000 tonne of co2 per annum : that be the co2 photosynthesise by the hemp in its four - month growth ; it do not include the carbon sequester into the soil , or the net effect of replace high embody carbon product from international supply chain and their emission . as a bonus for farmer , hemp regenerate the soil it grow in , so it would work well in crop rotation . it increase winter wheat and spring barley yield by 16 % to 18 % when they follow hemp in rotation , and it clean groundwater . the barrier to the industry raise the funding it require be license . to make it a success , the Government only have to open their mind to the reality of what hemp be and distribute licence appropriately . the industry will take care of the rest . Hemp be not a plant for the past ; it be a plant that can pave the way to a clean , green future , and its benefit be clear for all to see , if we be prepared to open our eye and to hear the possibility . if raise taxis be what it take — if that be the trigger require — then so be it , but we should not wait too long . it be a year since I make a similar speech , and in that time other country have be press ahead while we be be leave behind in our nuclear bunker . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be a pleasure to contribute to the Budget debate . before I talk about a few specific issue , I promise a constituent — a victim of the infected blood scandal — that I would raise the question of compensation if it be not mention in the Budget speech . as far as I be aware , it be not , so I ask the Minister to let my constituent know in the wind - up when compensation will be pay . I understand that the recommendation for that to happen be make 10 month ago , so my constituent and I — and , I be sure , many other — will be grateful for an answer . I regretfully say that it come to a pretty pass when a Conservative Government have to plunder the Opposition ' s policy in a Budget . I be talk about scrap the non - dom tax status and extend the windfall tax on oil and gas company . the latter be especially nonsensical for a number of reason , not least because we want to reduce our reliance on foreign import . if I be correct , the tax amount to about 70 % . which company be go to bid for a licence when it be simply punish for provide the country ' s energy ? all this when only today the Government announce that they be to build new gas power station in order to keep the light on . net zero be an admirable aim , but it risk impoverish the country ; we need a pragmatic approach to the change . while I be talk about the country ' s essential requirement , let I say that there be also no more money in the Budget for our stretch and deplete armed force . there be a whisper that defence spending might rise to 2 . 5 % of gdp if and when that be possible , but that be simply not good enough when we live in such dangerous time . I wish we would stop pluck spending target out of thin air . as I have say before , we should let our three service work out what we need to support and , if necessary , fight alongside NATO ; cost it ; and then decide what we can afford . the Chancellor ' s key rabbit be a further reduction in national insurance , which have not endear the Budget to pensioner , who do not pay the tax — although , as my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) say , they do still have the triple lock , which be generous . instead , pensioner risk pay more tax on income as the threshold at which the high rate of tax be pay be frozen ; freeze threshold be , in effect , a stealth tax . accord to the OBR , which the Government refer to on many occasion , that would see million of new taxpayer as their income rise above £ 12 , 570 a year , nearly 3 million worker be drag into the high rate of 40 % , and 600 , 000 taxpayer pay the additional rate of 45 % as their income pass £ 125 , 140 a year . this be hardly conservative doctrine . when I hear the Chancellor speak of the importance of low taxis and allow people to keep more of their hard - earn money , I be expect a bombshell of an announcement during his speech — for example abolish inheritance tax ; lower income tax , which I would have personally choose , not national insurance ; lower corporation tax to encourage growth ; simplify the tax system ; less state and less regulation ; reform business rate ; and curb many of these bloated quango , if not scrap they all together , and return control to elect Ministers . with our party stare down the barrel of a gun , it be time to be bold and courageous . I totally accept that the Chancellor be deal with unprecedented time . no doubt disease , war , a vast debt and an increasingly unstable word all play a part in his cautious approach , but where have we make the saving ? why do we think — like the opposition — that the state have all the answer ? the key to a successful economy and growth be a thriving private sector , whose taxis pay for the public sector . the more bloated the latter , the more punitive the Government have to be on the wealth creator , the risk taker , the innovator and our very future . the Budget have its good point , but they be tinker at the edge . even the small reduction in property capital gain tax and the tiny rise in the vat registration threshold will neither ignite the property market nor boost small and medium - sized business . after 14 year in this place , I find it remarkable that Labour be quiet on its spending priority . I ask why , and I fear it be because if Labour win the election , it will simply endorse our . what we need be crystal - clear blue water from the Budget . instead , we be pursue the socialist way and punish those who earn more by work hard for their family , all to pay for a big state that be both unaffordable and run contrary to every single conservative value . the Chancellor ' s final Budget have confirm what the british public and my constituent in Nottingham South have long know : we be all pay a heavy price for 14 year of Tory failure . that be failure to grow our economy , failure to raise living standard and appal failure to deliver the quality public service that people need and deserve . we have all be leave live in a lost decade because of a succession of chaotic conservative ideological project that have harm economic growth , scare off private investment and widen inequality across our nation , from austerity to a no - plan Brexit and the kamikaze mini - Budget of September 2022 . the Chancellor and the Prime Minister claim that our country have turn a corner . perhaps we have , but it turn out that around that corner be yet another Tory recession and the high tax burden for 70 year . household in my constituency of Nottingham South will be on average a furth £ 870 bad off because of the Budget and other recent economic announcement from this rudderless Government . for every £ 10 that the Government be take from our hard - work family in high tax , they be give back only £ 5 . forget rob Peter to pay Paul — the Tories be give with one hand and take twice as much with the other , while expect we to thank they for the privilege . many of my constituent be already have to make daily difficult decision to make end meet because of the sky - high inflation and rocket rent and mortgage payment unleash by the last Prime Minister ' s irresponsible and economically illiterate mini - Budget . now , because of the failure of this Prime Minister and his Chancellor to get our economy grow again , raise living standard or actually cut the tax burden , my constituent will have to try to make do with even few pound in their pocket . the Conservatives be inflict yet further pain on my constituent , because the combination of £ 1 billion - worth of cut to Nottingham City Council , the failure to fix the crisis in social care and spiral homelessness have push our council over the edge . to fill that black hole make in Westminster , the council have be force to agree devastating cut to local service , include the art , culture , library , community protection , youth service and more . this ill treatment come as no surprise to we in Nottingham , because successive Tory government have fail to make the important investment need to help our great city grow , cancel first midland main line electrification and then phase 2 of High Speed 2 , and refuse to invest in the Broadmarsh project to regenerate our city centre and create more than 6 , 000 much - need job . we in Nottingham have be a target for Tory cut since 2010 , but I be proud that I and other stand up to the Government to force they to deliver on the extension to Nottingham ' s tram network , the upgrading of the a453 and the scheme to insulate and retrofit thousand of home across Nottingham South . unlike for the Conservatives , sound public finance and economic stability be non - negotiable for the Labour party . a future Labour Government will not play fast and loose with our economy by carry out ideological Frankenstein experiment like the Prime Minister ' s £ 46 billion unfunded plan to abolish national insurance . instead , we will stick to our tough fiscal rule . our spending plan will be fully cost and fully fund , include a loophole - free windfall tax on the extraordinary profit of oil and gas multinational giant . we will root out waste , corruption and those abuse taxpayer ' money by set up a new office for value for money , halve Government consultancy spending , and appoint a covid corruption commissioner , to ensure that all of our taxpayer ' hard - earn money be spend wisely . a future Labour Government would end Tory short - termism and instead work with private business to encourage stability , investment and reform to build the world - lead industry of the future in Britain . we would reform our sclerotic planning system , support our work people to develop the skill they need to thrive , and make work finally pay with a genuine living wage and a new deal for work people . the Conservative Government have break their promise to the british people . we be all pay more and get less because of repeat Tory failure . if this be a private contract , the Government would have be take to court for misrepresentation under the Trade Descriptions Act long ago . instead , the Prime Minister , who lose his last election test to his predecessor and her snake - oil economic , be steadfastly refuse to let the british public have a say on his and his party ' s record of chaos and national decline . he should do the right thing and call a general election for 2 May to let the people of Nottingham South and Britain elect a Government who will put they first . the measure announce in the Budget by my right hon . friend the Chancellor promote a pragmatic and sensible approach to grow the economy , improve productivity and ensure that more people keep more of their earning . we still carry the economic scar and fallout of the once - in - 100 - year pandemic and the energy crisis cause by Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . let we not forget that covid shut down major part of our economy and the Government spend more than £ 400 billion protect hundred of thousand of business and million of job . I note the Chancellor ' s comment in his speech last week that the UK ' s post - covid recovery be among the strong of the G7 , ahead of France , Germany and Italy . Russia ' s war in Ukraine have lead to a serious energy crisis . I be proud that the Government choose to support household with increase energy bill , provide £ 40 billion of financial support . this Conservative Government be able to spend that money because they spend the previous nine year rebuild our economy after it be ravage by successive Labour government . let we not forget that when we take office , the then Chief Secretary to the Treasury tell we that there be no money leave . thankfully , we be now witness a steady recovery , follow two major economic shock in the last four year . economic recovery do not succeed overnight , but this Conservative Chancellor be do the right thing by ensure that our public finance be on a strong footing , and that the recovery be sustainable and aim at growth and improve productivity . he be also do the right thing by put more money back into people ' s pocket . follow this Budget and the autumn statement , we have see a 4p cut in national insurance in just five month . some 27 million work people will keep an average of £ 900 more of their earning . one tax loophole that I be pleased to see closed be the abolition of the furnished holiday letting tax regime , eliminate the tax advantage for landlord who let short - term furnish holiday property over those who let residential property on a long - term basis . I have campaign for reform of the short - term let industry for over a decade . in the Cities of London and Westminster , 10 , 000 short - term let property be strip out the long - term rental market , leave young people struggle to pay rise rent in the capital , as they be in region such as the south - west . I also welcome the Chancellor ' s recognition of the importance of culture in our economy , with his unveiling of the package that will provide the creative industry with over £ 1 billion in additional tax relief over the next five year . that be a vital sector not only in my constituency but to the wide economy . it employ 2 . 4 million people across the UK and contribute to £ 125 billion to the UK economy in 2022 alone . the relief will make a huge difference to the creative industry . our public service play a vital role in the life of our nation , school , council , police and fire service and , of course , our beloved NHS , support we from the cradle to the grave , but we must never forget that these be all fund by taxpayer money . thus , it be imperative that we strive for the good value for money and focus on efficiency . I fully support the Chancellor ' s public sector productivity programme . currently , productivity remain below pandemic level , and we must close the gap . modernise and streamline our public service will mean well allocation of resource , lead to well outcome for those who use these service . our medical professional be well place to improve a patient ' s experience and outcome . I see that at first hand on a visit to Barts hospital in my constituency . bart - base Dr Debashish Das and colleague from across London ' s cardiac unit have design a shared platform to monitor remotely more than 5 , 000 patient who be await heart surgery . this doctor - lead initiative have significantly reduce emergency surgery , improve patient outcome and save the NHS money . that sort of project must be encourage , not only in the NHS but throughout the public sector . as a former councillor , I know full well how we must improve productivity and reduce cost . in 2010 , as cabinet member for child ' s service , I lead Westminster ' s merger of child ' s service with Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea , and Hammersmith and Fulham . it be a landmark move and the first of its kind in the United Kingdom . it not only lead to improve outcome for our child but save ten of million of pound for the taxpayer . we must see more of this type of project , and freedom and flexibility must be give to the public sector to improve productivity . there be one measure miss from this Budget , which would benefit the economy if implement : the reinstatement of tax - free shopping . since the tax incentive be lift , international visitor spending have fall in the UK and rise in european city such as Paris , Milan and Madrid . an Oxford Economics report predict that reintroduce tax - free shopping could attract more than 1 . 6 million extra visitor to the UK , stimulate an extra £ 2 . 8 billion in tourist spending overall . I remain at a loss to understand why the Treasury do not accept the argument to reintroduce tax - free shopping for overseas visitor , and to go far and extend it to EU citizen . reintroduce tax - free shopping would boost the economy for the retail , hospitality , hotel , leisure and culture sector , and also for the manufacturing of luxury good . it be a no - brainer . thank to the responsible and prudent management of the economy under this Chancellor , we be see green shoot of a sustainable recovery . that be fair and sensible . be that it ? that be my first thought on hear the Budget last week . be that it for my constituent , many of whom be struggle to make their wage , which have not rise in year , stretch to cover the ever increase cost of their food , bill , rent , mortgage , transport and council tax ? they be pay more for less . the ongoing austerity year have bring nothing but pain . UK GDP growth have be revise down , and Government debt and interest spending have reach the high level since the 1960 . even high earner be on track for the big fall in their disposable income on record . People be work hard just to keep their head above water . treat that be once affordable , such as go out for meal and annual holiday , be out of the question these day for many of my constituent . for the first time in modern history , most people will be bad off than they be before the Government be elect . yet there be nothing in the Budget to help lift out of poverty the 3 . 8 million people , include 1 million child , who be now so poor they be consider destitute . pensioner have be ignore and will be largely bad off . there be nothing in the Budget for young people who see no prospect whatsoever of have a secure and affordable home . the housing crisis be so bad it be now also a public health crisis . there be nothing in the Budget for defence spending , despite the increase threat we face . we have record waiting list in the NHS . be it any surprise that long - term illness be both the most common and fast grow reason for people be outside the workforce ? there have be some very difficult factor that have contribute to the weakness of our economy , such as the invasion of Ukraine and the pandemic , but far too many unforced error have be make : the Liz Truss Budget catastrophe , which my constituent be still pay for ; the £ 140 billion that Brexit be cost our economy — Brexit cost my constituent , on average , £ 2 , 000 each last year . the last time taxis be as high be in 1948 . despite the fact that the country be recover from the second world war , the Labour Government of the day deliver the national health service : world - beat healthcare , free at the point of use for everybody . in this Budget , there be no public service spending plan for the next five year . the 40 new hospital promise in the manifesto , on which the Prime Minister and the Chancellor be elect , be nowhere to be see . departmental expenditure limit have be leave largely unchanged . that mean my constituent will not see build under this Government the new in - patient mental health bed facility that be so desperately need . the economy be about political choice , and Labour will always choose to look after the NHS and education . the Tories steal labour ' s idea to abolish the non - dom tax status , but instead of invest in the NHS as Labour plan , they have use it to pay for a national insurance cut . even that unfunded promise be " not worth the paper it be write on " , accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , and it can not be pay for without Government borrowing , stealth tax rise and / or a further squeeze on public spending . the Budget be a damp squib , with no plan on how to get we out of the economic mess the Tories have get we into . I be pleased to see the change to the child benefit threshold , but why do it take the government so long to help struggle family ? tinker around the edge be not go to kick - start the economy or bring the growth and productivity we desperately need to improve our public service and put money back into people ' s pocket . rise — Order . I remind member not to refer to current member by their name , but to do so by their constituency or office . one of my mother ' s favourite phrase be that anything can be prove with statistic . it seem to I that Budget debate always follow that , as they be something of a statistical salad from which member can pick out their favourite morsel to support any individual argument . what be often more important be not to pick and choose statistic to advance an argument , but to look at trend . the report that I think every Member receive on a regular basis from our big bank and financial institution — NewDay , Barclays ' insight report , Lloyds and other — tell we a great deal about what be go on in the financial life of the people we serve . broadly across the country we see a clear trend that people be in a position to save more from their day - to - day income . spend on consumer activity be increase quarter on quarter , and be particularly strong among constituent on a household income of between £ 20 , 000 and £ 40 , 000 a year — those on low income , but in employment . that be part of a generally improve — although not rapidly improve — trend . it be against that backdrop that I welcome in particular the fact that the Budget focus its support primarily on the low income household , include pensioner through the triple lock . it incentivise work , but not just for the benefit of people earn their own income . it recognise the benefit of have a job — for mental and physical health , and for tackle child poverty . it also encourage investment . we have hear a great deal of debate about manufacturing . the introduction of full expensing , and the commitment to retain it , will be hugely important in raise productivity over time and will help we to address our big national challenge , the demographic of a reduce workforce , while help individual business . on a recent visit to the Sharmans Pharmacy in my constituency , I be show its new pharmacy dispense robot . it increase rapidly the ability of that pharmacy to fill prescription for people who come in . it increase the efficiency of worker and their ability to engage with customer , and it represent a degree of confidence on its part that an investment in an expensive piece of technology will help to increase its profit margin , secure job and provide a well service to people who come through the door . against that backdrop , and although we have see amazing progress , with on average an additional 800 job per day since the Government take office in 2010 , we still face a very significant recruitment challenge . I hear from business in my constituency , day after day , that secure worker with the skill to fill the job that enable we to grow and increase productivity remain a challenge . I will provide the Government Front Bench with the thought that , just as with the Windrush generation , when we go out and specifically seek to recruit people from across the world to fulfil the role we need — it do not always end well , but on the whole it be enormously significant and positive — we might need a similar kind of deal with a friendly nation today , and to make a decision to take control of economic migration and establish link with country from which we can source the skill we need and with whom we have an affiliation , to provide the stability our economy need , and in particular the public sector worker we require in the NHS , dentistry and so many other area of our national life . to develop the theme of productivity , all across the public sector we hear interesting example of how different public service be look to improve productivity . from the Royal Navy , we have hear how future generation of warship will require one third of the number of sailor that the current technology demand . across the NHS , we see example of how new technology — I declare an interest ; I be married to an NHS doctor — be improve the efficiency of both the delivery of service and the speed with which they can be provide . in that context , it be strike that , while people can be cynical about capitalism , there have be a 50 % improvement in cancer survival rate over the past five decade as a result of the wealth that have be generate and invest in this technology . I very much encourage the Government , as they look at where the productivity gain can most be find — echo the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and have spend a lot of my time in local government — to focus on the area of our public sector where we have see the most impressive gain in productivity . it be clear from , for instance , our experience of the well care fund and what have happen in relation to public health that local authority have consistently achieve not only some of the most impressive efficiency saving in any part of the public sector , but also the great productivity gain . that be because they contain accountable , elect politician like ourselves , responsible to their community , who be willing to run thing as if they be run their own business . one example be the investment in jet patcher enable pothole , which be a real pest for many of our constituent , to be fix very rapidly . the decision on that investment be make in local government year before anyone in central Government get around to identify the potential benefit of the technology . be it not therefore disappointing that while the Government have assume 5 % productivity increase in the Budget , they be also assume that central funding from the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities will be cut by 2 . 3 % a year in real term for four year ? even if a 5 % increase in productivity be achieve , it would fill only half the gap cause by the cut in local government funding that be project in the Budget . that be no way forward , be it ? moreover , the Budget make absolutely no mention of public health or integrated care . the hon . Gentleman have enormous knowledge of the local government world . I think he would also acknowledge the complexity of the local government finance world and , in particular , the opportunity create by the freedom relate to council tax increase . as we know from other debate in the House , that be not distribute across the country as evenly as we would like , but it will nevertheless enable local authority that have build up significant financial balance specifically to manage effectively some of the economic shock that we know be out there in the system . let I end with a brief defence of the value of capitalism . in this Chamber we often debate the need for great regulation — ten - minute rule Bills , for instance , be often intend to address injustice , and that be entirely right — but if we be honest we will admit that , notwithstanding the grandeur of the Chamber and the status of Members of Parliament , the Government do not exert as much control over the day - to - day life of our economy and our national life as some of our debate imply . we need to recognise that free market , capitalism and people ' s ability to invest and seek return have help to deliver that doubling of cancer survival rate , as well as the incredible improvement in educational attainment . it do not always work , of course . the private finance initiative remain a significant burden , but it be a worthy attempt to do the right thing which have turn out to have some significant downside . we should consider the improvement in our national mental and physical health and to the rate of absolute poverty that have be drive by investment and the creation of 4 million additional job since 2010 , which have transform our constituent ' live beyond almost anything else that we have do in this Chamber . it be for that reason that I have confidence in the impact that the Budget will have , and in the benefit that a Conservative Government be bring to all our people . this Budget have fail to address the acute challenge that our country be face . after 14 year of conservative rule we have appal level of poverty and inequality , and vital public service have be bring to their knee , but instead of be present with a Budget to inspire hope that the condition in which so many people be live could be turn around , we be treat to the sight of a blas é Chancellor with a pitiful offer . More than 14 million people in the United Kingdom be live in poverty , include more than 2 million pensioner and 4 million child , and a million of those experienced destitution in 2022 ; but the Chancellor throw they crumb in the form of a measly six - month extension of the household support fund . do he think that after September there will , by some miracle , no long be people who need help with the cost of food and utility ? it be an insult . in February , the former Prime Minister Gordon Brown say : " in year to come … people will be ask how it be that government walk by on the other side when thousand of child be suffer abject deprivation , and fail to support they in their hour of need . " this be a damn indictment of this Government . the Chancellor ' s treatment of pensioner be shameful as well . Paul Johnson , the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , have say that they will be " substantial net loser " from the Budget . he explain : " well over 60 per cent of pensioner now pay income tax . income tax change will leave most of they £ 650 a year bad off by 2027 , and over £ 3 , 000 a year bad off if they be high rate tax payer . " why be the Chancellor punishing pensioner in this way ? the Chancellor have the audacity to claim that the Government have a plan for well public service , despite know full well that conservative government over the past 14 year have inflict brutal cut and that more be plan for the year ahead . torsten Bell , the chief executive of the Resolution Foundation , say : " the £ 19 billion of cut to unprotected public service after the next election be three - quarter the size of those deliver in the early 2010 . the idea that such cut can be deliver in the face of already falter public service be a fiscal fiction . " yet again , the Tories be heap the misery of austerity on the country . local authority funding have be decimate under the Conservatives . figure from the House of Commons Library show that Wirral see a 28 . 6 % real - term drop in settlement funding between 2015 - 16 and 2023 - 24 . in Wirral West , we have lose Woodchurch swimming pool and leisure centre , as well as council - run library in Hoylake , Pensby , Irby and Woodchurch . in Wirral overall , we see a 54 % drop in real - term spend on service for young people between 2012 - 13 and 2022 - 23 . there have also be cut to emergency service : we now have around 380 few police officer in Merseyside than we do in 2010 ; and we have about 270 few firefighter . in Wirral , there be no legal aid contract to support people on housing or social security matter , leave people without access to justice . where be the funding to address the devastating impact of year of austerity ? community in Wirral have be leave high and dry by the Tories . the underfunding of the NHS continue , despite the fact that waiting list be at over 7 . 6 million , leave people suffer in pain , with thousand stop work as a result . I would like the Minister to explain why the Government have go back on their commitment to expand the provision of fracture liaison service . the Royal Osteoporosis Society ' s " Better Bones " campaign call for £ 30 million a year for universal fracture liaison coverage . that would save the Exchequer money in the long run , keep people healthy rather than see they join NHS queue and become reliant on social security . we still see no realistic plan to address the crisis in adult social care . last year , research by Age UK find that 1 . 6 million old disabled people have unmet care need and that 36 , 000 few old disabled people be receive care than in 2017 - 18 . skill for Care , the workforce development and planning body , estimate that an average of 9 . 9 % of role in adult social care be vacant in 2022 - 23 — equivalent to approximately 152 , 000 vacancy . the Government also continue to ignore the more than 7 million adult in England who be functionally illiterate , which be a form of deprivation that go unanswered . accord to the late report from the IFS , total spending on adult skill in 2024 - 25 will still be 23 % below 2009 - 10 level . this be a Budget from a government who lack any ambition to serve the majority across the country . the conservative legacy be one of decimated public service and appalling level of poverty and inequality . it be time for they to step aside . it be time that we have a Government who will give an immediate injection of funding to public service and ensure that no one suffer poverty . my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer be quite right to focus on improve the UK ' s economic activity , where , as we have hear , we should be do much well . we have a flexible labour market , and it be vital that we do not imperil it , but we also need a long - term strategy for investment in skill and infrastructure so that our economy can move into top gear , we can compete globally with the highest - perform economy , and we can bring prosperity to all corner of the United Kingdom . there be measure in this Budget that be particularly welcome and which will help improve our economic performance . the 2p reduction in national insurance contribution and the increase in the child benefit threshold remove barrier to work . it be also vital that we secure investment for the business of tomorrow . the £ 1 billion for the renewable electricity auction allocation round 6 , the £ 270 million combined Government and industry investment into research and development project in the automotive and aerospace industry , and the £ 120 million for the green industry growth accelerator will all help to achieve this . in almost every Budget , it be important to be wary of and to guard against unintended consequence , and there be two that I will briefly highlight from last Wednesday . first , I understand the rationale for extend the sunset clause on the energy profit levy , but there be real concern that this will deflect and deter investment for the industry of tomorrow : offshore wind , carbon capture , and hydrogen . these industry be vital to enhance our energy security , bring job to coastal community and deliver our net zero target , and I be concerned that , as the levy proposal stand , they could deter that vital investment . for my part , I shall be study closely the provision of the spring Finance Bill , and I would urge the Government to re - engage with industry at every opportunity . the hon . member ' s point about offshore renewable be very important . do he agree that we must ensure , as a nation , that we construct those float wind turbine in the UK rather than overseas ? yes . if we look at the offshore wind sector deal that be sign in 2019 , we can see progress in build local supply chain , but I share the hon . Gentleman ' s doubt to a degree . there be still a lot more work to do , and on the manufacture side of thing I would agree with he that that could take long than for other aspect of those local supply chain . secondly , I likewise acknowledge why the decision have be make to abolish the furnished let concession . there be area of the country where holiday let be badly distort the local property market , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , who be no long in her place . she make that point clearly , but there be many other area of the country where holiday let be not distort the local property market . they be a vital part of those local economy , which be often in rural area where there be limited other job - create opportunity , and restriction and limitation on the opportunity to diversify a business . many such property be also subject to planning condition that prevent they from become available for full - time occupation on the open market . it be therefore important to be cognisant of the full impact of this proposal before proceed . I see that the Financial Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) be listen . we need a full impact assessment of that proposal before it advance . to remove the stubborn productivity gap , it be vital to invest in skill and infrastructure . with such initiative as the local skill improvement plan and lifelong learning , the Government have rightly recognise the importance of provide people of all age with the opportunity to acquire the skill that be need for the many new and emerge industry that be come forward . further education college and trainer currently face obstacle in recruiting staff , recover vat and support those who need to catch up on their learning follow covid . it be therefore disappointing that no measure to address these challenge be announce last week . investment in infrastructure be vital if the east of England be to realise its full potential . it be therefore vital that fund be make available straightaway so that work on the Ely and Haughley junction rail improvement can begin without further delay . there be welcome announcement on this in the autumn statement , but there be local concern that the Government might be reverse ferret on this issue . I hope that my concern can be allay . this winter , the Norfolk and Suffolk coast have take a battering that it have not see for a very long time . in my constituency , in Lowestoft , Pakefield and Kessingland , this have undermine investment in the town centre , the port and the tourism industry , include its vital leisure park and caravan park . scheme have be prepare to protect these people and their property , and it be vital that they get under way as quickly as possible . the Government be right to stick to the plan to halve inflation , to grow the economy and to reduce debt . as I have say , I believe that the Budget ' s welcome initiative will help to achieve those goal , but all around the UK , and particularly in East Anglia , we need to press ahead with strategic investment in both people and infrastructure — in flesh and blood and in concrete and steel . it be important to note that , have pre - 2008 level of growth be maintain , GDP per head would be 39 % high than it be today . People be poor , and so be the state . we be on a long road of stagnation , decline and diminish capacity . it be a disaster for our constituent . it be easy to tell a story that this be simply symbolic of the die day of one political party in government , and that it will all be change by a new Government , but that new Government need a sense of direction and a sense of purpose build around national renewal in a divided and disillusioned country . new management alone will not cut it . we need a transformation that go well beyond fiscal and monetary tweak , and that move into the real economy . a transformation that ask why living standard be decline when employment be at record level . the dignity of work have to be at the centre of our agenda . the scourge of in - work poverty bear witness to the failure of the economic model that have now be in place for almost half a century . full employment , education and training be vital but , without an industrial strategy , it alone will not get to the heart of the matter . national renewal require what every Government since Margaret Thatcher ' s Government have find unthinkable — an industrial strategy that engage the energy of the public sector and the private sector in partnership with the people of this country . we must think the unthinkable , look beyond finance and the City of London , and look out to the country . we must think about regional bank , vocational college and a form of corporate governance that can sustain a partnership between place , worker and capital . the debacle of the Post Office this year be indicative , not anomalous . the model of managerial sovereignty without accountability have well and truly fail . it have leave public service , like our NHS , break , with million suffer on waiting list . it have leave local government bankrupt and unable to do its important job . economy , society and Government be rudderless , in decline and diminish . the british people be capable of invent , design and make their own future . we must not be afraid of change and the renewal of our economy , society and politic . that be the task of a Labour Government in 1945 , 1964 and 1997 . in each of those government , Labour win working - class community to its cause . those community have endure neglect , abandonment and contempt for too long . they be not the source of decline , but the key to renewal . they have be despise and patronise , and we can not understand the Brexit vote or the election of this Tory Government without understand their disdain or their rejection of the political class now . labour must put their need — a decent wage , a decent pension , safe and secure community — ahead of any progressive demand that often dominate the politic of the left . it be the vocation of Labour , as a party of government and as a movement , to do that . it be vital that Labour rediscover its own vocation , as well as the virtue of vocation in the economy . the stake be high indeed . it be a pleasure to contribute to the debate and to follow the hon . member for Liverpool , Walton ( Dan Carden ) . no Budget be deliver in a vacuum . to make an assessment of the Budget , we need to consider its context and backdrop . give some of the comment from Opposition Members , particularly the shadow Minister , I wonder whether they have be asleep for the past few year . during the past few year , our economy have have two of the big shock we will ever live through . the Government have have to step in to support job , business and household , and have spend almost half a trillion pound to do so . it be absolutely right to provide that level of support , which amount to around £ 6 , 000 for every person in the country , through the pandemic and the energy crisis . we be able to deliver that support only because of our careful management and rebuilding of our country ' s finance when we first come into office in 2010 . if we have not do that , we would not have be in a position to deliver that support . have spend that money , it now have to be cover and we have to balance the book . that be the context in which this Budget have be deliver . in the light of that context , the Chancellor do an incredible job deliver a Budget that be able to cut national insurance by 2p . thousand of people in work in my constituency will welcome that because they will be up to £ 450 a year well off , on top of the 2 % we deliver at the beginning of the year . once again , we have be able to freeze fuel duty , which will be hugely welcome , as will a number of other measure , particularly the extension of the household support fund for another six month , which be necessary to continue to support those most in need to recover from the impact of the last few year . raise the vat threshold will also be hugely welcome by many small business that I represent . I simply ask the Treasury to index link it , so that it go up every year , on a regular basis , rather than have to wait for it to be hike up again . there be much to be welcome in this Budget . there be one thing in particular that I welcome . in fact , I be deeply honour to get a mention from the Chancellor , as he address the issue of the inequality in the tax system between residential landlord and short - term holiday let . that be an issue that I have be ask to be address for a long time . I respect the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) when he say that we just need to be careful . what we need to do be to focus on outcome . we want more property available to rent in tourist area . I know that the Financial Secretary to the Treasury , who be a former tourism Minister , understand the sector incredibly well and I trust he as much as anyone to get this measure right . we need to ensure that we be focus on deliver the outcome and not just tax people who be not able to put their property on the rental market . I think this be an important step to address some of the housing issue that we face in tourist area . although I get one thing that I want to see in the Budget , there be other thing that I be hope to see that we do not get . the tourism sector have have a huge amount of support over the past few year , and rightly so , because it be such an important part of our economy . I have the honour of represent the constituency that I be tell be most reliant on the tourism and hospitality sector , and it be still face some huge challenge . More support for the sector , whether through cut vat or address the high business rate that company pay , would be very welcome , and I will continue to press the case for that . I be also disappoint that the opportunity be not take to address the issue of renewable liquid heating fuel , which be be tax unfairly for those who be off grid for main heating supply . I will continue to make the case for that . Productivity be an ongoing challenge in Cornwall . our wage be typically about 30 % below the national average and our productivity reflect that . there be some understandable reason relate to our geography and demographic , but there be also some huge opportunity for we to become less reliant on seasonal job and business . there be opportunity in the space sector , lithium extraction and renewable energy . I come into politic to try to create good career opportunity for young people grow up in Cornwall . this exciting opportunity to create well - pay job , to raise the average wage available in Cornwall and to give those young people the career of the future be something that we need to grasp . I urge the Government , who have already do much to support these sector in Cornwall , to continue to ensure that we provide those job opportunity to enable young people in Cornwall to aspire to a good career in the sector of the future . we need to close the challenge productivity gap that we face and make the most of create the well - pay job of the future . in the context in which we find ourselves , I believe that the Budget be hugely positive and deliver what the country need . we be see inflation fall and growth return to our economy . it be time to stick with the plan and continue deliver what the country need . there be thing to welcome in the Budget when it come to help people struggle with hardship and debt , but they be more about tinker than about provide solution to the underlie problem . I welcome the extension to the household support fund , which be distribute by local council and be a crucial lifeline for desperate family , but it be only for six month . that be wholly inadequate give the scale of the problem . increase the repayment period for household on universal credit that take out budgeting advance from 12 month to 24 month be clearly helpful , especially for those struggle to make end meet or cope with an emergency , but that still leave million of people on universal credit subject to unaffordable deduction from their benefit to repay other Government debt . those deduction from an amount of money that be frankly too little to live on in the first place cause real hardship . we have to put those small change in the context of a cost of living crisis that be affect million of people . StepChange say that two in five people be currently struggle to keep up with household bill and credit commitment , and its adviser regularly speak to client struggle to meet even the most basic need , such as get a healthy meal and keep the heating on . they be also increasingly see people on negative budget , which mean that they do not have enough income to meet their necessary outgoing , let alone put towards pay off their debt . a new report publish today by Christians against Poverty highlight that and the fact that many people lack credit , but I be not sure the Government recognise the problem as well as those charity do . that be why people need more help with the fundamental , such as council tax and energy bill . where be the much - need council tax support scheme and a social tariff for energy ? those change would make a real difference . we also need major change to the kind of debt solution that advice agency can offer . the announcement of the scrapping of the up - front £ 90 application fee and the uplift to the vehicle value to qualify for debt relief order be a start , because debt relief order be a real barrier to those in financial hardship who have to find £ 90 before they could even deal with their debt . the statement on financial vulnerability be welcome , but it be estimate that an extra 556 , 000 debt relief order will be apply for — a 75 % increase on 2023 . the statement assert that individual will be put in contact with free debt advice where appropriate , so my question to the Chancellor be : where will the extra money come from to pay for the additional debt advice ? the free advice sector be already overload . debt adviser be work beyond their capacity and suffer burnout , and many be leave the sector , despite their commitment to it . more and sustained funding be urgently need . enough with tinker around the edge . we need a system of simple and straightforward debt solution , and we must ensure that people , include those on negative income , be always able to access the solution that good suit their need . one part of the solution have to be to reduce creditor ' reliance on bailiff , whose fee , which rise substantially last year in the middle of a cost of live crisis , be simply add to people ' s debt , make they less and less affordable . bailiff be often part of the problem , not the solution . we have to encourage creditor — include public sector organisation , the Government and local authority — to embrace a fair and more effective system that prioritise affordable payment plan over the seizure of good . of course , we need to prevent people from fall into debt in the first place , so we must look at the issue more holistically . the cause and solution be complex . many people affect by debt have multiple category of debt , span lot of regulatory regime . that complexity be replicate across Government and Whitehall , and law and regulation span several department . for example , the regulation of " buy now , pay late " firm , which be far too delayed — I be really sorry to see that it appear to have be kick into the long grass — be the preserve of the Treasury . Bailiff fee be an issue for the Ministry of Justice , and prepayment meter be the responsibility of the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . the Department for Work and Pensions look after deduction from universal credit , and rent arrear be deal with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities — and that be not a complete list . actually , all those Departments need to work together , and any policy need to have a financial inclusion impact assessment . that would stop many of the policy that be push people into more hardship and debt . this may sound a little strange , but I be look to introduce a ten - minute rule Bill to regulate e - scooter that use lithium - ion battery , which will come under the Department for Transport . this be a financial inclusion matter , because it be often the cost of living that cause people to search for cheap bargain online that turn out to be anything but and be actually dangerous . I will not pretend to have all the answer to the complex issue , but I do know that we have to have a join - up approach to solve they . far too many people in our country be struggle with what seem like hopeless debt , and they gain little from the tinker and short termism of this Budget . I call Angus Brendan MacNeil . tapadh leibh , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be use Gaelic like Cillian Murphy do at the Oscars — the celtic tongue be everywhere these day . may I also welcome member of the Inter - Parliamentary Union , who be watch our proceeding ? I will start with a quote : " I don ' t want to rule or conquer anyone . I should like to help everyone — if possible — Jew , gentile , black man , white . we all want to help one another . human being be like that . we want to live by each other ' s happiness , not by each other ' s misery . " that be from the last speech of Charlie Chaplin ' s film , " the Great dictator " , film in 1940 . too often nowadays , 84 year later , we be see the misery of other among we in the UK , where food bank and child poverty be far too commonplace . the hon . member for Rochdale ( George Galloway ) , who be no long in his place , mention two ward in his area where 50 % of child live in poverty . he also mention his predecessor , which be very worthy . young people in our country can not get house . their rent drain their saving for a deposit and leave they trap . on " Newsnight " last night , a teacher in Paisley , Scotland say that there be a link between pupil behaviour in the classroom and hunger and perhaps even nutrition . how can we make society more productive when educational outcome be blight by DWP policy and spending choice ? the root of this go back to 2008 — perhaps not the crash but certainly the response to it and the fixation of then Chancellor George Osborne on austerity . he really do misunderstand the debt to GDP ratio . he think only of debt , leave the UK like a farmer save money on seed in spring , not invest , and then wonder why there be no harvest in the autumn . he have a short - term political slogan , which some here might remember : " long - term economic plan " . as ever , however , there be no plan . this be the autumn , there be no investment and the harvest be scarce . the Resolution Foundation point out in December that the average worker in the UK be earn £ 10 , 700 less than their equivalent in a host of develop country in Europe , North America , New Zealand and Australia . this have be compound by Brexit take gdp down by about 5 % , and talk of a trans - Pacific partnership give nothing back because that be trade with paperwork and bureaucracy and only a 0 . 2 % to 0 . 8 % gain in GDP . member talk of people keep their hard - earn cash , but it be hard - earn cash as a result of some of the choice that have be make in the UK . fill out form do not productivity make . in Iceland , the crash be over by 2013 , which be 11 year ago . I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Iceland and have meet the Central Bank of Iceland several time . it now complain of too much growth in its economy and its head banker have his head in his hand . thing be so different in the UK . Ireland seem similar to Iceland , as do Norway and Denmark . the country surround Scotland be very different . their population will grow by 2050 , but if Scotland be still in the UK , its population will decline . my constituency will experience that decline most of all . it be unnecessary and will be as a result not of destiny but of choice . it be not about geography or demographic ; it be about policy . in " the Guardian " last week , Gary Stevenson , a former City trader , write that " the budget be for ordinary people . the mega - rich look on and laugh … trader know the rich will get rich and the poor will get poor . " the blight be all over society . Sky News report over autumn that parent be steal infant formula milk , such be their desperation . report be be write and commission on food insecurity in what be know as a G7 country . the basic fact about the UK ' s finance be that it have borrow every year bar 11 since 1945 , and have not pay back much of that money ; it have be in surplus for only 11 year , and have pay back about 1 . 7 % of the debt attribute to it . those be the fact , but maybe they do not tell the whole story , because the world have not end . however , they undermine the fiscal rule that various party and Oppositions have , which be not actually necessary and be cause the misery of other . in my view , the UK have have two pivotal moment that have lead we to this point — moment of quantitative easing , or if you like , the printing of money . as the american economist J . k . Galbraith say , the process by which money be create " be so simple that the mind be repel . " those moment be , of course , after the crash and around the pandemic . the problem be that rather than people be help with their mortgage , as they be in Iceland — that would perhaps be call flood - up economic , the opposite of trickle - down economic because it work — in the UK , the poor have lose out hugely , and the rich have accumulate the money that be create by the Government on a whim . as Gary Stevenson say in his article in the Guardian last week : " the next year , 2011 , I place a bet . it be a bet that the hundred of billion of pound of economic stimulus be pour into the UK and US economy would not reach the people who need it . it would settle in the pocket of the rich , who would use it to buy the home of the poor , and the economy would never recover . that year , I be Citibank ' s most profitable trader in the world . they pay I $ 2 m and ask I to do it again . it be around about then I realise the whole economic system wasn ' t work . " that be why we be where we be , and why the Budget be what it be — nothing very huge , and quite delusional , as have be say before . it also explain why council and devolve government be short of money . it be worth remark that devolution only work one way in the UK . we get tell in Scotland that we have two government , but devolution do not work like that . it work depend on England ' s need : when England ' s one Government decide that they need to spend on something , there be consequential for Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . if Wales need money for health , England , Scotland and Northern Ireland do not receive consequential . that be a fundamental problem with the UK . I would also say to the SNP , and to the SNP Government in Edinburgh , that there be so much they could do to change the situation . they have the power in their hand to call an unscheduled Holyrood election whenever they want , and put the matter of independence before the people . if they do so , I be confident that Scotland would choose to leave all I have describe ; we would be an independent country and could have a different demographic outlook , particularly for Na h - Eileanan an Iar . these matter be very important , and Holyrood should think about do that and do it soon . I apologise in advance , Mr Deputy Speaker , for my rather croaky voice today . I be vocally cheer on the historic double win on the weekend : the Commons and Lords rugby team ' s win over the D á il and Seanad , and of course , England ' s dramatic victory at Twickenham . turn to less happy matter , this Budget do absolutely nothing to remedy the economic malaise we have have over the past 14 year . some £ 20 billion will have be slash from vital public service by 2028 , pair with tax cut that overwhelmingly favour the very rich in our society — just another round of austerity from the architect of inequality . it be the bad decline in living standard since the second world war , the bad growth since the great depression , and the bad wage crisis since the battle of Waterloo . what an awful record that be . it be economic incompetence of utterly historic standard . this malaise do not emerge suddenly and recently ; it be not solely the result of the pandemic or the war in Ukraine . it be the cumulative outcome of a decade and a half of misguided economic decision and governance by successive coalition and then conservative government . when the former Prime Minister , the now Baron Cameron of Chipping Norton , announce the beginning of a new " age of austerity " back in 2009 , few of we could have predict the sheer devastation that the Conservatives be about to unleash on this country . a report from the Progressive Economy Forum reveal that between 2010 and 2019 , austerity measure drain a staggering half a trillion pound from the UK ' s public spending coffer . the impact of those cut have be devastating . the introduction of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 increase the number of child live in relative poverty by 600 , 000 in just seven year . bizarrely , british child be now 7 cm short than their european counterpart , clearly because of the malnutrition , scurvy and ricket that now plague our child ' s future — it be utterly unbelievable , but these be fact put out by scientist . as we all know , food bank usage , even in many conservative constituency , have skyrocket . accord to the Trussell Trust , emergency food parcel usage rise from 61 , 000 in 2010 to 1 . 9 million in 2020 . rate of increase in life expectancy have nearly halve , and more than 330 , 000 excess death in Great Britain have be attribute to this great age of austerity . that austerity have prove to be not just economically devastating , but , sadly , fatal for hundred of thousand in this country . these policy be not just confine to the coalition Government . between 2015 and 2019 , a succession of conservative Prime Ministers commit themselves full - throatedly to the devastating austerity politic of the last five year . the most egregious be the implementation of the two - child benefit cap in 2016 - 17 . that particularly awful example mean that 42 % of child live in family with three or more child now live in absolute poverty . the two - child benefit cap have impact on 1 . 5 million of our nation ' s child . despite politician ' promise of austerity lead to an improved economy , our public finance have clearly not improve . since 2010 , the real economy have grow by only 1 . 2 % a year , and we have the weak growth among G7 country . the simple fact — and this need to be say loud and clear — be that you can not cut your way to growth in any modern economy . we have witness the bad growth in gdp per head since record begin . the real average wage for most Britons have remain unchanged since 2007 , which be the big fall in living standard since record begin . Productivity , which be closely link to level of investment , have stagnate for the long period in modern capitalism . Productivity be now low than in France , Germany and the United States . a decade of austerity leave the UK exceptionally vulnerable to the pandemic . when that hit , the year of pay cap and freeze wreak havoc on safe health and social care staffing . they hinder recruitment and see a spike in staff turnover , and as a result both sector be perilously understaffed even before the pandemic hit . the cut to social security , benefit freeze and restrictive reform shatter our agree safety net in this country . those soar poverty level fuel high covid risk , leave my constituent much more vulnerable to severe health consequence . slash fund gutte the provision of health and safety regulator , which leave enforcement in a shamble . amid the pandemic , inspection and notice hit rock bottom , despite rampant workplace infection . this categorically lead to the death of NHS worker on the frontline . emerge from the pandemic , public service be leave in tatter , as they be still , and they desperately need financial support , but it be not bring forward in the Budget last week . the situation be only worsen far by the former Prime Minister ' s act of economic self - destruction , which plunge the pound to historical low , allow mortgage interest rate to skyrocket and put six major pension fund at risk of total annihilation . this track record of the decimation of our country have leave classroom fall apart , NHS waiting list at near record - break length , household unsecured debt go up through the roof and our public institution on their knee . this be the result of only one organisation and one group of people : it be the result of 14 year of uninterrupted conservative and coalition economic mismanagement . the Institute for Government have warn that our public service be stick in a " doom loop " of recur crisis , due to more than a decade of short - term policy making and harsh austerity . this Budget be a miss opportunity for lay a different progressive pathway forward for our economy — one that empower and properly fund public service , and put work people and our fragile planet at the very heart of it ; one that invest in people and their skill , whether that be at university or for vocational worker ; and one that invest in our workplace and our people . until we have a Government who be prepared to do that , as well as to stand up for the ordinary people of this country , and have a serious long - term investment plan for infrastructure and a long - term investment plan for sector in our industry , our country will stagger onwards on a treadmill of economic decline . rise — order . Sarah Olney will be the last speaker to have seven minute , and we will then go to six minute . hopefully we can keep it at six minute , if my math be any good — I will be in the Chair then anyway , but we will see . after year of economic chaos , unfair tax hike and now Rishi ' s recession , this desperate Budget be yet more evidence that the Conservative Government — order . the ruling be make early : we must not make reference to anybody ' s christian name or surname if they be current , serve member . the hon . Lady be incredibly intelligent and I be sure she will find another way of make the point that she wish to make . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I apologise . for million of family and pensioner face soar mortgage and rent payment , skyrocket energy bill and eye - water food price , the proposal announce by the Chancellor last week will barely touch the side : no real help with the cost of living ; no plan for economic growth ; no real support for our NHS and public service ; and no end to this conservative barrage of stealth taxis . be this really the good the Government have to offer ? thank to this Government , the british public have endure the big fall in living standard since the 1950 , and more and more people across the country , include in the Chancellor ' s constituency , be rightly say that enough be enough . instead of more empty promise , what they want be a general election as soon as possible , to get this tired Government out of Downing Street and get our country back on track . in a veiled attempt to deceive the british public , the Chancellor seem desperate to convince people that he be cut taxis . however , over this year and next , someone on average earning will still be £ 383 bad off due to the Government ' s freeze on the tax - free personal allowance . on top of that , they be already endure high energy bill , food cost , and rent and mortgage payment , all thank to this Conservative Government . meanwhile , the Government have leave our public service stretch to breaking point . the Liberal Democrats have be call on the Chancellor to end this crisis , particularly in our NHS , which be on its knee . on doorstep across the country , people tell we time and again how they can not get a GP appointment , an ambulance on time , or see an NHS dentist . this be clear in place such as Molesey and Thames Ditton , where people be increasingly concerned that they be unable to see a doctor , and with GPs say they have be leave in the lurch by the Government . despite the hard work of local doctor , the situation in Surrey have become dire after the Government slash funding for GPs in real - term by £ 9 . 2 million . that be also put a huge strain on local hospital , include St Peter ' s Hospital in Chertsey , and Kingston Hospital in my constituency , which be pay the price for this Conservative Government ' s failure properly to fund our health service . the crisis face our hospital be also be feel in south London , where St Helier Hospital have be leave to crumble , with no sign of the investment promise by the Government . a & E and maternity service be now at risk of closure , which could see up to 50 , 000 resident displace for healthcare should far funding not be give . the situation in our health service be so bad that it be now hurt our economy , with more than 2 . 8 million people unable to work due to a long - term health condition . the increase in economic inactivity since the start of this Parliament be estimate to have cost the taxpayer around £ 3 billion this year alone , and all because this Conservative Government have fail to fund our NHS and social care properly . instead of properly address the crisis , the Chancellor merely plug a hole that he have blow in the NHS budget in the first place . that be why the Liberal Democrats have call on the Government to deliver serious investment for our NHS , recruit more gps , fix our cancer service , bring down waiting list , and help people get the quality care they so desperately need . I be , however , glad that the Government make positive step on the issue of child benefit — something of great importance to my constituent in Richmond Park . the raising of the threshold at which child benefit can be access be welcome by the Liberal Democrats , as be the propose consultation on introduce a household - base system to determine eligibility , rather than base it on individual income . I pay tribute to the work of my colleague , my hon . friend the Member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , who have campaign tirelessly on this issue and introduce a Bill on that subject a couple of week ago . I encourage the Government to go far to review how the high - income child benefit charge work , to ensure that hard - work family do not continue to incur excessive fine through no fault of their own . I be also glad that the Chancellor listen to the concern of the theatre industry , particularly those of the Society of London Theatre and UK Theatre , regard theatre tax relief . current high rate of theatre tax relief have play a pivotal role in enable UK theatre to be world - lead and innovative , which will enable big , bold programming that help nurture talent pipeline and reach more audience . I now urge the Government to keep work with our creative industry , both in theatre and in other sector , to help enable they to grow and continue to display the outstanding talent that we have in the UK . liberal Democrats welcome some measure in the Budget , but it simply do not go far enough . the Chancellor could have stand up last week , propose a fair deal for the british people and take step to get our economy grow again . instead , he give we more of the same : another underwhelming set of announcement from this Conservative Government , who be out of touch , out of idea and nearly out of time . he could have cancel this unfair stealth tax and raise the tax - free personal allowance ; he could have reverse tax cut for the big bank and put in place a proper windfall tax on fossil fuel giant to help fund our public service ; and he could have present a serious strategy to stimulate economic growth by reform business rate and develop an industrial strategy , as be do by the Liberal Democrats in government . instead , he choose to appease his Back Benchers in a desperate attempt to save his party and maybe even his own seat . it be clear that the british public will not be fool by the Chancellor ' s deception . right across the country , voter be sick and tired of this Conservative Government , and be ready to vote for change at the next general election . I be a teenager when the conservative party come to power . as that Government take office , they tell we that they have to cut funding for public service , blame " benefit cheat " and " welfare scrounger " , but they reassure we : " we ' re all in it together " , they say . of course , that be not how it turn out , as those pay attention at the time know it would not . fourteen year of Tory Governments and austerity have decimate our community . public service have be cut to the bone . school and hospital be crumble — often literally . youth centre , woman ' s shelter and library have close in their thousand . local council have lose billion in Government cut , and dozen be now on the brink of bankruptcy . worker ' wage be low than they be in 2008 , and living standard be set to face the bad decline since the second world war ; nurse be use food bank ; teacher and doctor be leave the profession they love in drove ; the social security system have be gutte , and the number of child live in poverty be up 600 , 000 since the Tories come to power ; and , while rent have rocket , the number of people sleep on the street have increase by 120 % . austerity be a political choice and we be never " all in it together " . since 2010 , the wealth of the rich have rocket . in the last decade , UK billionaire have see their wealth go up threefold . fossil fuel giant have never have it so good . while the super - rich amass ever great fortune , people in my constituency be struggle . More than one in three child grow up in Coventry South be in poverty , with more than 3 , 000 affect by the cruel two - child benefit limit . the Central England Law Centre , which be base in my constituency , and Unite the Union warn that they be see increase level of conditionality be place on people , include parent with young child and people with health problem . over £ 1 billion have be cut from Coventry Council ' s budget , with cut filter down and impact service . in particular , I want to highlight the impact on Coventry Rape and Sexual Abuse Centre — the only specialist sexual violence support service in Coventry — which have provide an invaluable service to Coventrians for more than 40 year . this year , strained budget have mean that the council plan to end funding for the service , force the centre to close its waiting list , leave survivor of sexual violence — overwhelmingly woman — unable to access the support they need . that be just one example of the consequence of Tory cut to local government . with this Budget , those cut be set to get bad , because once the Government ' s commitment to other area be factor in , it entail yet more austerity . as the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say , this Budget mean cut worth £ 20 billion a year by 2028 — again cut local government , justice and Home Office budget . it be no surprise who benefit the most from the giveaway in this budget : the national insurance change benefit the rich household 12 time more than it benefit the poor , while cut capital gain tax will help those with huge property portfolio but will do absolutely nothing for the parent in my constituency choose between heating and eat . morally , politically and electorally , this should be the Government ' s last Budget . the inheritance for the next Government will indeed be dire , but we should learn from the past and rise to the challenge . in 1945 , when Labour come to power from the rubble of war , we build the NHS , we build the welfare state , and we build million of council home . we redistribute wealth and power and transform our country for the well . that should be the lesson for the future : make the super - rich pay their fair share , invest in our community and build the green infrastructure for the future . we have do it before . we must do it again . I will start by talk about housing , because it be the issue that I receive the large amount of correspondence on . in 2019 , the Conservative Government commit to build 300 , 000 home a year by the mid - 2020s . we be now well into 2024 and the Government do not look anywhere near reach the target , nor do the Budget contain measure to improve progress in that regard . in Stockport borough , Conservative and Liberal Democrat councillor vote against participation in the Greater Manchester spatial framework in 2020 , deprive Stockport council of fund and co - ordinate support to build more house . now , a Liberal Democrat - control council be build far few home than be need , and progress towards a local plan for housing have be painfully slow . in January this year , the waiting list for social housing in Stockport borough be 5 , 995 household . sadly , as of this week , the figure stand at a staggering 6 , 400 household . in Stockport , 2 , 300 household file application for homelessness assistance in 2022 - 23 : a 22 % rise on the previous year . in November last year , 137 household be in temporary accommodation , with 29 family in hotel . the council ' s forecasted spend on temporary housing be due to top £ 500 , 000 this financial year . I be also concern by the increase in buy - to - rent development in Stockport , which be where a wealthy institutional investor will buy the entire property — often an apartment block — with the property only available to rent rather than to buy . I have table a number of write parliamentary question on the matter due to the impact that such development have on increase average rental rate in the area and the negative impact they sometimes have on our community fabric . I will continue to press on that , because I do not think that the Government have a grip on the housing situation . as I say , I continue to receive large amount of correspondence from constituent struggle with housing issue on a daily basis . the harsh reality be that the Conservative Government have fail the people of Stockport and those across England when it come to come to housing . I also want to talk about cut to local school in my constituency . datum release recently by the National Education Union show that the Government ' s funding decision have result in 70 % of maintain school in England face real - term cut since 2010 . that include 66 % of maintain primary school and 88 % of maintain secondary school . in my constituency , 84 % of school have less funding in real term than they do in 2010 due to Government cut . that equate to a loss in per - pupil funding of £ 392 and a total change in school spending power of £ 3 . 2 million for all the child in my constituency . the worst affected primary in my constituency , Bridge Hall Primary School , have suffer a loss in real - term per pupil funding of £ 1 , 752 and a loss in overall spending power of almost £ 340 , 000 . the bad impact secondary school , Stockport Academy , have see a loss in real - term per pupil funding of £ 1 , 528 and a change in its overall spending power of almost £ 1 . 5 million . after 14 year of cut , an extra £ 12 . 2 billion be need to restore school spending power to 2010 level , repair crumble school building and tackle the SEND crisis that our child be face . I also want to mention the rise in prescription charge and the impact that have , often on low - income people and deprived community . the prescription charge exemption list be outdated and unfair and do not reflect the reality of many people live with long - term medical condition . the prescription Charges Coalition be call on the UK Government to review that outdated exemption list , with support from the Health and Social Care Committee to achieve that change . while the extension of the household support fund be welcome , 80 % of those survey by Parkinson ' s UK in 2023 do not even know it exist . what step be the Government take to inform those who need it most and to ensure that people with such condition have that support ? finally , may I mention the good work of the campaign for Real Ale in support local pub ? I have a fantastic range of pub , hospitality business and brewing institution in my constituency , but sadly we have lose 25 % of the pub in my constituency since 2010 . as I be sure you be aware , Mr Deputy Speaker , our pub make up a big part of our community fabric , and when a pub close the implication be much wide than just the range of establishment available . the Government have sadly fail to deliver the long - term change need to the business rate system that unfairly penalise brick - and - mortar business such as pub . I have table a number of write and oral question on this issue since my election in 2019 , but sadly I do not see any change in Government policy . we have an award - win distillery in my constituency : Stockport Gin . I recommend you try it , Mr Deputy Speaker ; it will soon be stock in the Strangers Bar . robinson of Stockport , an iconic brewery business go back to the 1940 , and other have be campaign for reform to the business rate system . I hope that the Government will pay attention , because lose valuable institution like our long - stand pub be a loss to the community and the nation . I will end it there . thank you for call I to speak , Mr Deputy Speaker . I look forward to you buy I a pint — of anything , quite frankly . the community of West Ham need hope from this Budget , but it have deliver absolutely nothing but continued despair . the Government can not grapple with the dire state of the economy , public service or housing , nor can they understand the depth of poverty that our people be live in . this government be not capable of acknowledge the real need for change . perhaps if they understand just a little , they might ask who be responsible , and they would have to reflect on their last 14 year . let I talk about West Ham and the change desperately need there . Newham have the high rate of homelessness in the country . accord to Government statistic , one in every 20 Newham family be trap in overcrowded , mouldy , insecure temporary housing . nationally , homelessness in temporary accommodation be up 10 % in a single year . People sleep rough on our street — the absolute bad of homelessness — be up 27 % in just one year . what about the kid whose life be blight by temporary accommodation ? they lose their home every six month and have to move school . they have nowhere to do their homework and have to travel mile on bus because they want to keep the one stable thing in their life : their school place . that be up by 12 % in a single year . in Newham alone , 8 , 596 child be without a safe and secure home . temporary accommodation cost be rocket for Newham Council and be set to increase by a whopping £ 17 . 5 million in the come year because the council have the grow pressure of accommodate 30 to 40 new homeless family every single month . long - term council asset be have to be sell to pay temporary accommodation bill . that be utterly unsustainable . this government refuse to face reality . the council service that my constituent rely on day to day , from street cleaning to library and public safety , be be degrade because this Government think it be right for the cost of spiral homelessness to fall on my local resident . it ain ' t just a local problem . it be cause by decade of government failure to invest in social home and to tackle poverty . our council be force to sell off social home and then be massively constrain on what they can do with the meagre receipt that they get back . how do the Budget respond to this worsen crisis ? it do so by end the scheme that enable council to do the right thing and use more receipt from the sale of social home to build replacement . at a stroke , this Government have cut £ 200 million from the funding for new social home in this country , at a time when those home be need more desperately than ever . the horrifying scale of the housing crisis have grow ever large , but the Budget show , yet again , that the Government simply do not care . they be more interested in salt the earth after 14 year of destruction than they be in any kind of solution . I have focus on homelessness today , but , as we know , the problem our community face be far wide , and be be neglect or ignore by this Budget . across the board , my constituent be pay high taxis and get bad and bad public service in return . almost half of patient need treatment locally be wait more than 18 week , and 6 % be wait more than a year . the Government have not even manage to repair the damage cause by the wreck ball that be the former Prime Minister : mortgage be still through the roof ; price in the shop be still rise ; and people simply can not afford to pay their bill . the OBR expect this to be the only Parliament on record in which living standard fall over the full five year . that should be truly shocking , but our collective expectation of the Government have fall so low that it be normal . we desperately need real change for Newham and for our country . the Budget do nothing to offer that change . our one solitary hope be that it will prove a bitterly fitting end to 14 year of Tory failure , division and decline . this Budget have be deliver as we mark nearly 14 year of conservative economic failure . the Institute for Fiscal Studies ' headline be : " this will be the big tax - raise parliament on record " . so many individual and family across our country be suffer as a result . they be suffer from continually rise food price , and increase in the cost of general household bill , insurance , general service , private rent and mortgage payment . People be also have to wait long for public service appointment . the OBR have state this will be the bad Parliament on record for living standard , and that be shameful . furthermore , the UK ' s productivity level be concern . a lack of productivity can make it hard to grow the economy and that have severe consequence . end Child Poverty have estimate that more than 8 , 000 child be experience poverty in Lewisham East , and that be couple with a homelessness and housing crisis . accord to Shelter , more than 7 , 000 people across Lewisham be homeless and nearly 4 , 000 child be live in temporary accommodation . a child ' s background and upbringing have a strong influence on their future achievement , but now many who live in the private rented sector be have their health impact by the poor condition of their home . to see that , we need only look at the tragic case of Awaab Ishak , who die aged two from a respiratory condition cause by exposure to mould at his home . a Citizens Advice report last year find that 1 . 6 million child live in privately rent home with damp , mould or excessive cold . family be also find it hard to provide for themselves . family should not have to use food bank ; that should not be part of our society , but it be on the increase . although we have amazing organisation locally and other such as the Trussell Trust , we see that the demand be increase — we see that at the Lewisham food bank , but it should not be the case . in addition , the Government be starve local authority of resource , make it hard for they to help people , despite their try their good . since 2010 , the Government have take million of pound out of Lewisham Council ' s budget , and I know that it be not just my local authority ' s budget that be experience that . many local authority have find themselves on their knee and have have to be bail out by the Government . I be glad that my local Labour party do a monthly food collection to help young people to access warm and nutritious food , but that alone will not solve the cost of live crisis and it will not end the recession . that be why I be pleased that Labour , if elect , will provide free breakfast club in every primary school . that will help to drive up attendance and standard so that young people can work towards their goal and ambition . additionally , Labour have a long - term plan to grow our economy and improve productivity to deliver more job , more investment and more money in people ' s pocket . it will not be an easy or quick task . the Budget be the Chancellor ' s last attempt to show that the Conservatives can be trust with the economy , but nothing could be far from the truth . the only thing the Budget show be that we need a general election . this Tory Government want to cut the benefit bill to fund tax cut . they be go to target those who be economically inactive , which include a large percentage of disabled people , cause they extreme fear and distress . study at Lancaster University show that when disabled people be force into work , they generally gravitate towards the gig economy for flexibility . they be then poorly pay and unable to qualify even for derisory statutory sick pay . that force they back into inadequate but well pay sickness benefit . Job coach with minimal training be not the good people to assess work capability . they may be well meaning or they may be incentivise to get people into work , whether it be suitable or not . that be a fear I hear over and over again from disabled people and organisation . the spring Budget be totally tone deaf and signal yet more Westminster austerity for public service that be already on the brink . our public service simply can not endure austerity 2 . 0 . it be deeply concern that the Tories and Labour seem indistinguishable from one another : labour be use the same economic trope that the Conservatives use back in 2010 to justify their damaging austerity programme . expert also say that the tough sanction regime that be introduce have backfire , with more people receive sickness and disability benefit as a result . the OBR ' s economic outlook report state that under current plan there will be a reduction in money spend per person on frontline service that disabled people be utterly reliant upon . nothing the Chancellor announce last week can mitigate the damage cause by Westminster austerity , the infamous Tory mini - budget and Brexit , which have cause irreparable damage to the UK ' s economy that both the Government and Labour refuse to acknowledge . a coalition of disabled people ' s organisation , the Disability Poverty Campaign Group , announce that it be deeply concerned , and even anger , by the spring Budget — anger be an understandable emotion emanating from the disabled community , as they have be consistently fail . their relentless call for additional target support since the beginning of the cost of living crisis have be ignore . they be also have doubt about what will happen under a change of Government . carer be leave similarly disappointed . Helen Walker , the ceo of Carers UK , say : " a staggering 600 people a day be give up work to care , many as a result of the lack of social care . the lack of long - term sustainable funding for social care be heap ever more pressure onto family . it ' s simply unacceptable . as well as be financially disastrous for family , employer end up shoulder extra cost " . all the while , level of poverty have increase , and financial hardship and debt have rise to record level . the six - month grace period for the household support fund be not enough . it must be make permanent and therefore give Barnett consequential to the devolve government across the UK . in last year ' s spring Budget , the Government reiterate their promise for an energy social tariff . aye , well , we be still wait . the implementation of a social energy tariff would lift ten of thousand of financially and physically vulnerable people out of poverty , give some relief to the many disabled people who need energy - intensive equipment to manage their condition . National Energy Action have show the way towards its affordability , while the Data Communications Company have point out that much of the exist smart meter infrastructure could be use alongside DWP datum to target the tariff at those most in need . it beggar belief that the Budget have ignore that , and I hope that my private Member ' s Bill , the Social Energy Tariff Bill , will keep it at the forefront of the Government ' s mind . I be not give up on this fight . how can the Government expect to boost growth and productivity when living standard drop and million of householder across the country can not heat their home or feed themselves ? the Chancellor have an opportunity to support household , business and the vital public sector , but he do not take it . he fail entirely to help the most vulnerable , and to encourage growth and therefore prosperity for those who need it most . in Scotland we treat people with disability with dignity , fairness and respect , which be totally lack under the DWP regime . Westminster be not work for Scotland under the Tories , and it will not work for Scotland under a tory - like Labour Government either . Scotland ' s value be not reflect in Westminster , and 50 % of its population agree with I that it be time for independence . let I associate myself with what my hon . friend the Members for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) and for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) say about the scale of the hardship be face by so many resident of the London borough that all three of we represent . in his Budget speech , the Chancellor say that the Government would " continue to explore how saver could be allow to take their pension pot with they when they change job . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 843 . ] I be pleased that the Economic Secretary be present , because I be relieve that the Chancellor do not commit himself to pursue that particular course at this stage . the proposal be drive by the laudable aim of consolidate pension scheme to gather resource to invest in the economy , which be an important part of tackle the productivity challenge of which we have speak today . however , many of the response to the Government ' s consultation on it oppose the particular model on which the Chancellor have consult — the " lifetime pension pot " model — because it would substantially increase cost and complexity for employer , whose support in pension provision have be important to the progress that have be make . at the very least , adopt this model would have the damaging effect of end the cross - party consensus on pension policy that have be so important to the progress of auto - enrolment over the last 20 year . a major trade body , the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association , say that there be " no evidence " that the lifetime provider model would help saver , but that it have " the potential to significantly undermine the success of AE " . it warn of a " sharp increase in marketing and product cost which will ultimately be bear by saver . " it also suggest alternative way in which to tackle lose and small pot , and to deliver the consolidation that be , undoubtedly , very important . the Association of British Insurers say that the model would " re - engineer auto - enrolment " , and warn that " we must not lose sight of the great success of automatic enrolment , while acknowledge that there be key reform already underway … that need to be complete . " the TUC describe the proposal as a " gimmick " and a " dangerous distraction " , likely to " lead to high charge and low retirement income for most worker , with the low pay the great at risk of get rip off . " Lane Clark & Peacock , where the former Pensions Minister Steve Webb now work , say that the model be " fundamentally flawed " . I be therefore relieved that the Chancellor be not rush ahead with the proposal . I wish we have see more progress elsewhere . the Work and Pensions Committee have report a widespread consensus in favour of the 2017 auto - enrolment review recommendation . the legislation receive Royal Assent last September , but we now need a consultation on how it will be implement and when . if the Minister be able to tell we when that be likely to happen , it would be of great interest . we also highlight the " consensus that many people need to increase their pension contribution if they be to have an adequate income in retirement . " we say : " the middle of a cost of living crisis be not the time to ask people to pay more into their pension . however , if they be to do so in the future " — as they need to — " work to prepare the ground need to start now to build consensus " on the need for the change that must come . it would be good to hear from the Government about when they will get on and move auto - enrolment to the next stage . I , like other member who have speak in the debate , welcome the Chancellor ' s extension to the household support fund . it have be crucial in support family through the cost of live crisis and in enable local council to reach those who most need help , but as we hear from the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , there be a strong case not just for extend the fund for six month but make it permanent . local welfare assistance replace the old social fund in 2014 . money be transfer to local authority budget , but it have increasingly be squeeze out in subsequent cut . if the household support fund do end in September , a significant number of council will end local welfare assistance altogether in their area . the Government support local provision , but they need to fund it as well , and one important advantage of the household support fund be that a large number of council have be able to support family with no recourse to public fund when other help be not available to they at all . I very much hope that the campaign to make the household support fund permanent will be accept by the Government . over the last 14 year , the Conservatives have clearly fail to act for the common good . budget be about choice , and they have consistently make the wrong one . we have the high tax - raise Parliament since world war two . the Resolution Foundation say that the tax increase since 2019 will cost £ 3 , 900 per household , and that income will be low at the next general election than in 2019 . the year 2022 - 23 see the big drop in year - on - year living standard since the Office for National Statistics begin its work in the 1950 . taxis be go up , not down , despite the protestation of the Tories . I have hear no apology for the fact that only a third of the Tories ' tax cut in this Budget be fund by identify tax cut elsewhere , with the majority come from borrow . we have hear nothing from the conservative party about that fact . if the Minister want to dispute it , perhaps he will take it up with the Resolution Foundation . the Tories also make the wrong choice with their announcement that it be their desire to prioritise cut national insurance and abolish it completely . give the state of our public service , that leave they have to find £ 40 billion , which , in the absence of know how it will be fund , the Institute for Fiscal Studies describe as a prospect not worth the paper it be write on . we still have the Conservatives ' irresponsible recklessness : the " tory efficiency " in public service that they talk about be for the bird . how will we find those sort of cut to our crumble public service ? it be a return to the austerity that we have between 2010 and 2015 , which bring our service to their current state . the Resolution Foundation say : " the idea that such cut can be deliver in the face of already falter public service be a fiscal fiction . " how do we get to this state ? nothing in our public service be well today than it be in 2010 . we be a well country than the one the Tories have bring we to be . another choice that the Tories be make be to put up council tax . my council tax have go up over 50 % since 2010 , and the fee and charge that be be impose on local people be stealth taxis force on they by the government because they have starve local authority of resource . budget be about choice , include in education . every school in my constituency have low per - pupil funding than it have in 2010 . my borough have have £ 33 million low funding overall since 2010 , which be £ 867 per pupil . these be the amount need to restore funding to 2010 level . why be the headteacher and governor I speak to in my constituency worry about cost when we hear from the government that they have never have it so good ? it be about choice , and the Government have consistently make the wrong choice . before I finish , I want to make reference to the contaminated blood scandal . justice for those infect and affected have be delay unacceptably by the Government . Sir Brian Langstaff make it quite clear how compensation could be pay , and he publish the detail in April last year . we be nearly a year on , and we be no close to those people be pay compensation . in fact , the Government be put step in place to delay compensation to beyond the general election . the only way these people will get justice be if there be a Labour Government , and the soon the Prime Minister call that election , the well for they and the well for the country . we need a government who will make decision in the common good and ensure that everyone benefit from the growth that we need in our economy . we be certainly not go to get it from the Conservatives . I want to use my remark today to focus on the west midland , my home . we be the birthplace of the first industrial revolution and the co - operative movement . we be the home of Britain ' s second city , Cadbury ' s chocolate and J . r . r . Tolkien . we be the inventor of the pacemaker , the balti and the world ' s lead brain cancer drug . it be where , in the ' 50 , my family and thousand like they travel halfway across the world to make our home . we be a diverse , young and dynamic region . the west midland have immense potential , but for the past 14 year we have be let down . the headline of the Budget last week be that this would be the first Parliament in modern history where living standard have fall . that be the grim culmination of 14 year of economic mismanagement under this Government , with taxis rise , living standard fall , growth stall and empty promise . the Prime Minister may write off his recession as a technicality , but work people in the west midland know well . they feel bad off because they be bad off . as the obr reveal last week , GDP per person be set to shrink this year , have shrink last year too . this be also the long period of no growth since record begin in the 1950 . accord to the Centre for Cities , since 2010 the average person in the west midland be £ 4 , 320 poor than if the economy have grow at the same rate as it do under Labour . in Stoke - on - Trent , that mean that the average person be £ 7 , 360 bad off under the Tories , and in Coventry the average person be nearly £ 9 , 000 bad off . that be this Government ' s legacy , and give people £ 5 back with one hand after take £ 10 with the other be not go to fool anyone . at the heart of the problem face our broken economy be Britain ' s productivity crisis . increase productivity be critical for our success as a nation , for growth and for living standard , but our productivity level be now low than at any time since the industrial revolution . our shadow Chancellor know that productivity be a key driver of high wage , and that be partly why we have make growth and productivity the first mission of the next Labour Government . under Labour , London and the south - east will not be the only engine of growth . we will spread good job and productivity growth to every part of the country to make everyone well off . yet there be no proper plan for growth in the Budget last week . the forecast reveal that the growth we might expect in the next five year depend largely on the Chancellor have revise up net migration by 350 , 000 . as the Productivity Institute have show , low investment , regional inequality and a lack of long - term , join - up government be key driver of the Tory low productivity and low growth doom loop . but where be the plan to address that in the Budget last week ? where be the long - term mission to secure the high sustained growth in the G7 , with good job and productivity growth in all part of the country ? where be the industrial strategy to guide the partnership between Government and business to transform challenge into opportunity ? and where be the join - up skill strategy to bring together business , training provider and union to meet the job market of tomorrow ? the chaos of the past few year have damage business confidence and investment . short - termism have be a hallmark of this Government , who have lurch from crisis to crisis . we know that business can not operate like that , which be why Labour have set out a long - term industrial strategy . the west midland should be at the cutting edge of these frontier . I recently visit the precision health technology accelerator at Birmingham ' s life science campus , bring together the University of Birmingham , business and the NHS to create more than 10 , 000 job for our region . there be a revolution take place in medical science , technology and datum , and it have the potential to transform our healthcare . we should be at its forefront but , under this Government , Britain ' s life science sector decline from second to ninth in the global life science league table for inward foreign direct capital investment in 2022 — that be a £ 900 million drop . the UK ' s share of global pharmaceutical research and development halve between 2012 and 2020 . at a stroke , the Prime Minister ' s decision to attack Britain ' s net zero target trash Britain ' s reputation as a place to invest in develop the clean energy of tomorrow . the outcry from industry show how self - defeat this be . far from scale back our ambition , Labour will increase it . we will deliver a cheap zero - carbon electricity system by 2030 through our green prosperity plan . we will bring much - need investment into the west midland , worth hundred of million of pound , through our battery power fund . there will be a gigafactory in the west midland and investment in green hydrogen manufacturing to make the clean power of the future . we will reform our planning system and create job for construction worker , so that we can upgrade our region ' s old , draughty housing stock . and there will be more than a thousand local power project through our local power plan . the reality be that people in the west midland need change . change from a Government who have leave they thousand of pound worse off , who have bring public service to their knee and who have leave the economy in tatter . we be in a make or break decade for our economy , and the choice at the next election will be clear : five more year of the same fail approach or a decade of national renewal with Labour — good job in every part of the country , a world - lead green investment agenda and a life science sector that will create the job and technology of tomorrow . only Labour will give the west midland its future back . it have be my privilege to represent Dulwich and West Norwood for almost nine year . prior to my election to this place in 2015 , I have serve since 2010 as a local ward councillor in the constituency , have be elect on the same day that the coalition Government come to power . for my entire time as an elect representative so far , I have see Conservative - lead government make my constituent poorer , and undermine and diminish the service on which they rely . as a newly elect councillor in 2010 , I remember how shocked we be to receive the local government budget settlement that strip million from the council ' s budget . we work through it creatively and prioritise the service that matter most to our resident . we protect library , ensure the street remain clean and continue deliver service for vulnerable child and adult . we have no idea just how much more be to come . both the local authority that serve my constituent have lose more than 60 % of their central Government funding . those loss be in no way adequately replace by the increase in council tax — a regressive tax that take proportionately more from resident on low income — that the Government force our council to make . the single big practical issue affect my constituent be housing . I have far too many constituent live in temporary or overcrowded accommodation , unable to access the genuinely affordable home they need , or in accommodation that have damp and mould , with profound implication for their health . this government ' s political decision have deepen the housing crisis year on year for more than a decade . the coalition Government ' s decision to slash two third from the budget for build new social home stymie the development of exactly those home that make the big impact on the housing crisis . their decision to impose unfunded restriction on social rent have take £ 1 billion from the budget of Southwark Council alone over 30 year , funding that would have be spend on repair , maintenance and deliver new council home . the decision to change the definition of an affordable home — make a mockery of the term " affordable " , because 80 % of market rent in London be nowhere near affordable for resident on average income , still less so for those on the low income — mean that far too many of the home that have be build in London on this Government ' s watch have make no impact at all on those who be suffer the bad effect of the housing crisis . the Government ' s failure to ban section 21 eviction , even though they have promise to do so , leave thousand of my constituent at the mercy of their private landlord and without any security at all . the Conservatives ' political decision on housing be unconscionable . they be also contribute to the pressure on other area of our public service . the Government want to talk about productivity , so let I set out the impact of the housing crisis on productivity . GPs work in my constituency tell I about the mental and physical health impact of the housing crisis . hospital doctor tell I about the impact of poor housing on discharge . youth worker tell I about the impact on the ability of young people to do their homework or to relax at home , and how that drive they out of their home to place where they be less safe . social worker speak about the intolerable pressure on family create by the housing situation , and how hard that make it for some parent to care for their child safely . across the country , people be look at their own life , at the state of their town centre and neighbourhood , and at their ability to access the service they need . it be as plain as day that after 14 year of Conservative - lead government , nothing be well than it be in 2010 . I turn to the Budget in search of any sign that the Government understand just how bad thing be — the terrible state of thing on their watch — but there be just one brief announcement on housing : £ 20 million for community - lead housing . there be nothing wrong with community - lead housing , but that public investment amount to less than £ 140 , 000 for every housing authority in England , or less than £ 16 for every household on the housing waiting list . it be not a plan to solve the most pervasive and pernicious crisis in housing since the second world war . it do not touch the side . it simply reveal how out of touch the Conservatives be with the day - to - day reality of life for million of people across our country . my constituent have have enough of their life get bad under the Conservatives . they have have enough of a Government who do not understand their life and have no ambition for our community . it be time for they to step aside and make way for a Labour Government who can begin the work of rebuild the appalling damage that have be do . the speech deliver from the Government Benches today have be a metaphor for this government : they be out of idea , out of time and out of touch . that say it all . anyone listen to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury would have think that everything in the country be rosy and we be in some sort of sunlit upland . the experience of my constituent in Cardiff South and Penarth be anything but rosy . individual constituent who come to my surgery be struggle to make end meet because of sharp increase in their mortgage or rent , stagnant or decline wage , and the high price of food , fuel and the everyday good and service they need . those struggle be the reason we see such amazing community response . I spend last Friday at Splott Community Volunteers in my constituency , who provide warm hub and a series of other advice and support service . demand for those service be through the roof because of the experience people be have in the economy and in society . I also visit the Salvation Army last Friday , which be do fantastic work on housing and homelessness in my constituency . why be people find themselves homeless or in a housing crisis ? because of the shambolic record of 14 year of this Conservative Government . I recently meet business of all shape and size in Grangetown , include the small and medium - sized enterprise that be the lifeblood of our economy . they tell I that they want to see certainty , leadership and a solid environment for investment , but they have have exactly the opposite over the past 14 year . we have see chaos and a revolving door of Ministers . business have not have the confidence to make the investment they want to make to generate job and opportunity in our community . they be cope with high inflation , which mean their cost base have go up substantially , so their ability to grow and generate more job and opportunity be limited . what have we see ? we have see debt up , tax up , interest rate up and inflation up , yet we have see the economy stagnate and now in recession . that be on top of the austerity and cut in our public service and , indeed , to Wales , leave we unable to invest what we want in our NHS , our education and our police , which have have a huge impact on the ability of the police to deal with antisocial behaviour and crime . thank to the Welsh Government , we have see investment in police community support officer , in new school and in new health facility , but think of how much more we could do if we have a Labour Government in Westminster work with a Labour Government in Wales and our Labour council make a difference . the Chancellor ' s late Budget simply lift the lid on 14 year of tory economic failure . when we lift that lid , there be no rabbit , there be no hope . many of we be leave ask , " be that it ? be that all they have to offer ? " again , the conservative Benches be a reflection of that today . instead , we see more unfunded tax cut — we all know where that get we last time . we have hear today of the £ 46 billion - worth of unfunded national insurance cut , and also of the total chaos in the Government ' s message about when those would come in — another stark reflection of where we be . yet again , work people be leave to pay the price of an underperforming Britain , with a high - tax , low - growth economy . let we consider just how different thing could be . I be very clear about what Cardiff South and Penarth need from what my constituent tell I . we need investment in our green transition . place such as Sully and Dinas Powys have already see the impact of flooding and climate change . a response be need to that not only locally , but nationally and internationally . that be exactly why I be proud of the Labour plan to invest in our green transition , in green steel , in renewable , in nuclear , and of course in the high technology and green solution that be be generate by our fantastic high education sector . I be very proud of our university in Cardiff , which be do fantastic work on this and put some of those green idea into action for our country . I want to see support for our creative industry . we have see huge investment by the BBC and other film and tv production firm locally , such as Netflix , but in other area we be see that market contracting , which be have a big knock - on effect on small creative and those who be commission to work on those big production , so we need to invest in our creative economy . thirdly , we need to see crucial infrastructure investment . I have argue time and again for investment in the south Wales main line . we be see a really bad performance on the great Western Railway . we all want to see St Mellons Parkway station build on the edge of Cardiff — my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) , be nod in agreement — but we will need to invest in those relief line and that critical infrastructure to make sure that we can deliver growth through our infrastructure investment . we need to see a proper reflection of Cardiff ' s status as a capital city in the funding for our police . I raise this issue recently with the Minister of State for Crime , Policing and Fire . it be good to know that he be now talk with our police and crime commissioner and chief constable about this issue . we need to see that investment to reflect the challenge that we face as a capital city . crucially , we need to see certainty for business to be able to invest . we have see some great success story recently : Rolls - Royce come into invest and our legal and financial service sector in Cardiff do very well , but we also need an industrial strategy , tax certainty and a climate of leadership and ambition for this country , which we simply have not see from the Government or in this Budget . I wish to start my contribution with something of a personal anecdote . just over nine year ago , in January 2015 , an almighty storm strike the north of Scotland . at that time — before I join you , Mr Deputy Speaker , in this place — I be live with my wife and my elderly mother , who , at 91 , be in the last year of her life . she be bedridden , and have to be care for , and I be her carer . in that storm , at 3 am , the electricity go out . that bring it home very forcefully to I what a predicament I be in . how do I boil the water for her hot water bottle ? how do I heat the food to feed she ? by the grace of God , I have an oil - fire stove , which mean that we could get by . if I have not have any form of heating , I would have be in deep trouble , as we do not get power for another two day . I share this anecdote with the Chamber because it bring it home to I absolutely how fundamental the ability to keep ourselves warm be to life . I believe the british people have a deep sense of fairness , which we should be very proud of . it lead to the national health service , free at the point of delivery , which be probably the great thing that Clement Attlee ever do . More than a century early , it lead to the penny post , which mean that whether a letter or parcel be post in Kinlochbervie in north - west Sutherland or in London , the cost be the same ; it be about fairness . I have say many time in this Chamber that the cold village in the United Kingdom be Altnaharra , right in the middle of Sutherland . in 1995 , the temperature drop — unbelievably — to minus 27 . 2 ° C . think how cold that be , and that be couple with the fact that a lot of the house be old and not well insulate , income be small and we pay an awful lot more than many other part of the UK for our electricity . I believe we must address that fundamental unfairness . during covid , we know that keep warm make recovery as speedy as possible . good health be about have warmth . we can maximise the productivity of our population by ensure they be healthy and keep warm . I will not lecture Conservative Front Benchers about that , because Altnaharra have be the cold village for a very long time indeed . it be the cold village under Conservative and Labour Governments and — dare I say it ? — under Asquith ' s and Lloyd George ' s Liberal Governments , so the problem have be around for a very long time . my problem be that my constituent be lose out . I hear far too many story of elderly people , like my mum , who have to make the invidious decision at this time of year , or in January , February or December , about whether to put the heating on , and that strike I as a fundamental injustice . unlike the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) , whose contribution I greatly enjoy — like many in the Chamber , I will miss he , and I wish he a happy retirement — I intend to return to this place if I humanly can , depend on what the SNP decide to do ; we will see about that . if I do return to this place , I give you warn , Mr Deputy Speaker , that I be not prepared to drop this issue . I will use whatever persuasive ability I have to get some assistance for those people . some say that people who live near wind farm should get a discount . I do not think that would work , because what about the people who do not live near wind farm ? the problem be that once a wind farm be build , the energy come almost for free — the wind be free — and that be what be so gall to my constituent . anywhere they drive in Caithness and Sutherland , they see massive great wind farm , and yet they pay over the odd for the electricity , which come from the wind farm , go somewhere else and come back with a big bill attach . that be the end of my contribution . I give notice that I shall return to this issue at every possible opportunity if I be fortunate enough to return to this place . at last week ' s Budget , the Chancellor stand at the Dispatch Box like a smile , villainous fairy tale character hold out a shiny apple glistening with national insurance cut , while all the while know that inside it be a deadly poison : the fact that we will all pay 10p more tax for every 5p we get back . the Chancellor be supposedly give back , but people across the UK be suffer from the high tax burden in 70 year , with the stealthy drip - feed of the poison of freeze tax threshold . the freezing of the basic threshold have bring 3 . 7 million more people into pay tax , and more taxpayer be squeeze by now have to pay the high rate of tax , as more of their income be in that bracket , often because of a pay rise that have not even keep pace with inflation , so there be a double whammy of more tax and less purchasing power . the freezing of the tax threshold affect many pensioner too . they do not need much of a workplace pension top up their state pension before they be in that tax threshold country again . of course , freeze the tax threshold hit those on the low income in particular . and all this while we have have rampant inflation . although inflation may now be calm down , price be still rise , with high food bill and high energy bill — the Government ' s failure to roll out renewable more quickly have make that all the bad — and high mortgage and rent . this Government have also devolve economic woe , include through cut to council tax budget in England . the Welsh Government settlement be some £ 3 billion less than if it have grow with gdp since 2010 , mean that they have to pass on cut to Welsh council . across the UK , people be be ask to pay high council tax for few service . we have have the big fall in living standard in our history . People in Llanelli and across the UK be bad off under this Conservative Government . this Conservative Government have be squeeze household income for 14 year . back in 2011 , the Tories increase vat to 20 % , put up household bill . they have cut and cut and cut the benefit pay to the least well - off in society — many of whom be , of course , in work — leave many without enough to live on . back in 2011 , the Government start use the retail price index instead of the consumer price index to calculate benefit , which work out as a cut . then , there be cut to health and pregnancy grant , sure start maternity grant and the baby element of child tax credit , leave the parent of newborn baby with less money to fend for they . then , in 2013 we have the bedroom tax , which be a cut in housing benefit that have originally be calculate as what people need simply to cover the cost of rent . by 2022 , the Joseph Rowntree Foundation report that in eight out of 10 benefit change between 2013 and 2022 , unemployment benefit have lose value , either through freeze or increase that be worth less than inflation . then along come rampant inflation . People be even poor , and even more be now have to turn to food bank . in all of that , we lose the child trust fund . anyone turn 18 use to be able to claim money that have be put by for they by the state and their family . in 2011 , however , the Tories cut it , mean that 18 - year - old do not have that to look forward to . England lose the educational maintenance allowance as well , but in Wales we manage to keep it for the very poor pupil . we desperately need growth in the economy . this have be a complete tory failure . at 22 Budgets , Tory Chancellors have promise growth , but they have fail . there have be seven consecutive quarter of fall GDP per capita and now officially we be in a recession . with cut back in 2011 , the Conservative - Lib Dem coalition choke off growth with swinge austerity , and the incompetence continue with that disastrous mini - Budget in autumn 2022 , leave people face year and year of increase mortgage payment . there have also be the failure to give business and industry the confidence they need to invest , include in renewable and to reform the energy market . People in Llanelli and up and down the country be desperate for change and desperate for hope of a well life . that be why we need a Labour Government , who will slash energy bill for household and industry , invest in the new green technology of the future , and invest £ 3 billion to ensure that we develop primary green steelmaking here in the UK . and the soon , the well . this be my first opportunity to respond to a Budget in this House and , like so many other milestone I reach in this place , I feel like I be do so while live through a form of parliamentary purgatory . we be trap with a Government who forbid the public to remove they , who starve parliamentarian of meaningful legislation to scrutinise , and who have now put a Budget before we that be as impotent as it be self - aggrandise — hollow and inadequate , with no agenda and no real plan for growth . indeed , the only growth we have see be in the list of this Government ' s broken promise : improve living standard , break ; inflation return to target , break ; increase productivity , break ; growth , break ; level up the north , break . increasingly our country be break , too , the victim of 14 year of conservative negligence , of which this Budget be merely the late sorry chapter . what be most gall be the staggering dishonesty of the Budget ' s central claim that work people will be well off as a result of its measure . it introduce a £ 9 billion tax cut base on implausible austerity , sandwich between a £ 27 billion tax rise the year before and a £ 19 billion tax rise in the two year to come . for every 5p that this Budget give back to family in Selby and Ainsty , the Government take away 10p as part of a tax burden that have rise to its high level for 70 year . Selby family will be £ 870 bad off as they suffer through the Prime Minister ' s recession , while inflation force they to pay more for their weekly shop , use real wage that be below what they be in 2008 . this Budget be little more than an insult to the public ' s intelligence — a prime instance of the Government ' s offensively low expectation that work people will not realise the extent of their inadequacy to meet the challenge those people face . central to the Budget ' s failing be the absence of a real plan for growth . I be not sure how the Government still have not grasp this point after 14 year , but there can be no hope of sustained economic growth in this country without well - resource public service . how can business grow if we do not modernise and expand our transport infrastructure ? how can british worker be productive if they have to leave the workforce to care for parent or child ? how can we level up our country with local government strip to the bone ? how can we have vibrant high street when crime continue to blight our town centre ? well - fund public service be the bedrock of economic growth , yet this Chancellor intend to reduce real per capita spending for unprotected Departments by 13 % between 2024 - 25 and 2028 - 29 . that be £ 19 billion - worth of cut , or a repeat of 71 % of the austerity that we see from the first austerity Parliament . the Chancellor be in charge of our NHS during a portion of that Parliament , when the justification for hollow out our welfare state be fix the roof while the sun be shine . Minister , the sun be not shine now — in fact , it have not be shine for some time . our public service be in desperate need of support , but this Government be too happy to continue put critical service on the chop block to aid their dogma to realise the danger they be cause . it be the same old conservative , put party before country and ideology before reality , and make the british public suffer the consequence . that be the tragedy of this Budget : the miss opportunity to do what be right and achieve the growth we need . I be glad that the Chancellor finally wake up to the necessity of scrap the non - dom status , but under Labour ' s plan , that money would have go into our NHS , create more dental appointment and more capacity . politic be about priority , and the Chancellor have clearly decide that election giveaway base on fiscal fiction be the order of the day . with all that be say — the Minister may like to hear this — there be one area of the Budget about which I be pleased : the announcement of the £ 105 million earmark for the opening of new special educational need and disability school for child . that announcement be an opportunity to reiterate my plea for the Government to do everything possible to ensure the speedy delivery of the Selby district ' s SEND school , which have have Department for Education funding allocate since 2019 , but for which building work have not even begin . hopefully , that will go some way towards end the scourge of young people in my constituency with additional need have to travel in taxi for hour a day , to village and town as far away as Scarborough and Harrogate , just to get the learning and education they deserve . overall , we be leave with a situation where our country have stall , and a Budget that fail to grasp the economic opportunity of our time while do nothing to heal the deep structural damage that lie beneath our broken economy . it be high time that the conservative party let the british public give their verdict on these 14 year of waste potential , and I have no doubt that their decision will be for change . Diolch yn fawr , Mr Deputy Speaker . cut for Wales , cut to service , cut to pay and cut to living standard , and absolutely no mention in the Budget of the most pervasive threat and great existential crisis face every one of we — the climate crisis — all to fund giveaway to a few of the Government ' s friend at the top . there be absolutely nothing in this Budget for Cymru — for Wales . the Welsh Government , back by the Senedd , call last week for great fiscal flexibility . they seek investment in coal tip safety and the allocation of the billion of pound owe to we in consequential from HS2 , but the Chancellor choose to ignore those request . I listen with some amazement to the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , who be laud the merit of the free market and capitalism . that could not be any far from the truth for my community , Cynon Valley , and for other across the south Wales valley , whose history be one of extraction . this year mark the 40th commemoration of the miner ' strike , which sound the death knell for the industry , with the decimation of community across south Wales and other coalfield community . that be the legacy of neoliberalism and the capitalist state in the UK . the Budget bring cut to service , with department lose £ 20 billion in the come year , which almost match the cut of the 2010 coalition . that mean few youth club , few bus service and few bin collection , while local authority be on their knee . such cut can only damage the fabric of society and risk further alienation of the public from politic . there be also more cut to pay . this be the Tory low - pay agenda . the public have see well - pay Ministers restrict strike action to deal with the myth of wage - lead inflation , and the Government continue to make late submission to the public sector pay review body , despite people be be unable to keep up with the cost of energy bill or food shop . this be shameful . who gain from the tax cut ? we see £ 10 billion spend on cut national insurance , when nearly half of the benefit of do so go to the rich fifth , but only 3 % go to the poor fifth . this be the Tory agenda to reward a few at the top while public service be disappear and people ' s income be stagnate , include in Cynon Valley , where we have see an exponential growth of food bank and food bank usage . in recent month , there have be a huge surge of people come to my office ask for fuel voucher because they can not afford to heat their home . only last month , alongside trade union council in south Wales , I arrange a hunger march — a hunger march — to commemorate the 97th anniversary of the first hunger march in the UK from the Rhondda up to London . it be an indictment that we now have more food bank than McDonald ' s restaurant . shame on this government that that have become normalise . this government ' s approach be test not only the social fabric , but the future of our planet , and the british people will not accept the continued destruction of public service and people ' s pay . the next Government have no alternative but to find the fund to increase public sector pay , fund public service and invest in the future of our public sector . that include end the unequal and unfair low level of taxation on wealth , which be surely now inevitable . we need a wealth tax now more than ever . the Chancellor should have confirm a commitment to public sector pay restoration to its real level in 2010 , start with an above - inflation rise this year . he should have commit to lift the minimum wage to £ 15 an hour at the next opportunity , and we will keep demand that . as I have say , our social fabric be under threat . we need an economy that put people and the planet first , before profit and for the benefit of all . we must be argue not for growth for growth ' s sake , but for growth for prosperity for all . that be enshrine in the well - being of Future generation ( Wales ) Act 2015 , which we be fortunate enough to have in Wales . I would encourage the Government to look at that Act , and ideally to adopt it here in England and across the UK . this mean enable and support local community not only to generate wealth , but to invest it in their own community . that community wealth - build initiative be call cymunedoli . it be only by redistribute wealth that we will be able to tackle inequality , to transform society and to secure a just future — not only for current generation , but for future generation . it be with pleasure that I speak on the final day of the Budget debate this afternoon . with this be the last spring statement before the general election , last week ' s Budget be a golden opportunity for the Chancellor to finally set out his plan to grow Britain ' s economy . we do not see a rabbit out of the hat , although it look as if the Chancellor have manage to make his Back Benchers disappear . instead , this Budget reveal what we have know for far too long — that this exhausted , fade Tory Government be completely out of idea . million of people across the country will have listen to the Chancellor , and collectively say , " be that it ? " the Government have limp on through another Budget week — clearly not everyone have survive — and a former Tory Cabinet Minister say that it have have " no traction at all " , because the Prime Minister be simply too weak to call a general election . the unavoidable fact be that after 14 year of Tory Government our economy have flatline into recession . living standard have fall off a cliff , and our public service be crumble . the Budget have lift the lid on 14 year of tory economic failure , and nothing that they do between now and the election , whenever it come , will change that . the Chancellor may have take 2p off national insurance as a last - ditch effort to shore up vote , but Opposition Members have not forget that there have be 25 — yes , 25 ! — tory tax rise since the last election . this be the high tax burden on the british public for 70 year . for all the attempt fanfare about last week ' s Budget — again , we see the enthusiasm on the conservative Benches — for every £ 10 extra that work people will pay in tax under the Tories , they will get just £ 5 back as a result of combined national insurance cut . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the opposition say last week , the Government be openly give with one hand but take even more with the other . they be take the british public for fool . on average , household will still be £ 870 bad off under this government , yet the Chancellor merrily tell the House last week that his " plan be work " . I know that my constituent in Wakefield , along with million of people across the country , be just not buy it . five Prime Ministers , seven chancellor , and 11 fail " plan for growth " have be trot out by this Government . and what do they have to show for it ? an economy in recession , small than when their late Prime Minister take office . the national credit card be maxe out , with debt triple to almost £ 2 . 6 trillion since 2010 . average post - tax earning at the start of this year be £ 1 , 870 low than at the start of 2021 , accord to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation . real pay be up by just £ 17 a week since the Tories take office , with an unprecedented decline in living standard , and a cumulative £ 19 billion rise in mortgage cost for UK homeowner thank to the Tory mortgage timebomb . as if that be not enough , now the Tories be eagerly promise £ 46 billion of unfunded tax cut , which would leave a gape black hole in the nation ' s finance with work people pay the price . there be little in last week ' s Budget that will make any real difference to the life of hard - work constituent in Wakefield . some ward within my constituency rank among the 10 % most deprive neighbourhood in the country , and a shocking 32 % of child in Wakefield live in poverty . every one of those household suffer in my constituency and across the UK be a badge of shame for those on the Government Benches . last week ' s lacklustre Budget also do nothing to address the fact that the basic function of the state be collapse under the Tories ' watch . not a single nhs dentist in Wakefield be take on new patient . one in seven people in England be on a waiting list for NHS treatment , and thousand of child be study in crumble classroom . it be plain as day that the Tories have give up on governing , so it be little wonder that they finally cave to pressure from Labour after year of resistance , and have finally act to close the non - dom tax loophole . that be a crushing , humiliate u - turn even for the Tories , and a damn indictment of a Government totally bereft of idea . my constituent simply can not afford another Tory Budget of decay and decline . we desperately need a general election , and a Labour Government who will get the economy grow again , make work pay with a new deal for work people , and back british business with a new industrial strategy in a national wealth fund . it be time for real change , and Labour be ready to serve . call a general election . may I say to the hon . member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) that there be no point in Labour Members bang on about unfunded tory tax cut , when Labour be not go to do anything different and say it will not reverse they ? Productivity be an almost abstract word that be bandy about all the time , but the one point of consensus be that the UK ' s productivity rate lag behind those of comparable country . we keep hear pronouncement about the need to improve productivity , but nothing change . the last Prime Minister — the one of just 45 day — believe that tax cut , especially for the rich , somehow boost the economy and productivity . despite that ideology , the Government never show how the rich get rich boost outcome or increase manufacture productivity , or how tax cut for the rich transform the productivity of those pay the least , who be do the real work . Productivity certainly be not boost by try to force the long - term sick or those with disability into job they be not suit for . the reality be that increase productivity stem from good planning and strategic investment . the Chancellor ' s decision to make full expensing permanent at the autumn statement might drive forward investment but , even so , there be still question to be ask about how the UK go into recession . indeed , despite what the government always tell we about global factor that affect all other country , such as the war in Ukraine or global inflation rate , the reality be that within the G7 , the UK be only outperform Germany in GDP growth compare with pre - pandemic level . over a four - year period , the UK ' s gdp growth — at just 1 % — be a third of the eurozone , and mile behind US growth at 8 . 2 % . of course , it be no coincidence that the US have its Inflation Reduction Act or that the eurozone be cover by the EU ' s green deal industrial plan . it be no coincidence either that the UK have the low level of investment in the G7 — further proof that the Government should be provide scheme and investment to counter the EU and US measure . instead we hear from UK Ministers at the time the bla é attitude that these other country be simply play catch - up with the UK . it be blinker british exceptionalism at its bad . indeed , the Government still do not recognise that they have fall far behind ; not only that , but they fail to listen to renewable energy developer about the strike rate for offshore wind be too low in the last contract for difference auction , which have lose investment in renewable energy and throw the 2030 deployment target into doubt . until the failure of auction round 5 for offshore wind , the contract for difference process be at least a success for deployment of renewable energy . however , it still represent miss opportunity for UK - base supply chain development , for investment to be target at UK manufacturing and for increase UK productivity . instead , the UK Government make it a race to the bottom in term of price , so we see billion of pound of investment offshore in that process . the Government hide behind EU directive but now , post Brexit , the procurement strategy still do not sufficiently incentivise local content . on Brexit , be outside the single market and the custom union — complete additional paperwork and product undergo additional check — clearly affect productivity . the OBR have confirm that the UK be still on track to see a 4 % hit to GDP and a 15 % reduction in EU trade as a result of Brexit . Goldman Sachs estimate that Brexit have cost the UK 5 % in GDP against comparable country , so it be undeniable that Brexit be a large contributing factor to the UK ' s performance within the G7 — another issue completely avoid by Labour in today ' s debate . great investment be require in infrastructure , but the Budget do not allocate additional capital money . indeed , the Scottish Government ' s capital budget be suffer a cut of close to 20 % in real term this year ; yet somehow the Scottish Tories demand ever more construction — ever more deployment from the Scottish Government — while stand by as Westminster slash our budget . that say , the Scottish Tories now see at first hand the Westminster respect agenda , as their wish be overridden by the extension of the windfall tax . that be a furth £ 1 . 5 billion of revenue from Scotland that be not be use for reinvestment . it be not prop up Scotland ' s capital budget ; it have be use for a tax cut . that be shameful — and yet , we be suppose to doff our cap and be grateful for £ 300 million of additional Barnett consequential . we know , though , that cut to the Scottish Government be come down the line , give the £ 19 billion of departmental cut associate with the autumn statement and now bake into this Budget . of course , as be point out early , Labour be effectively stick to the Tories ' spending rule , so Labour will introduce austerity 2 . 0 if it come into power . it be no wonder that the IFS say there be a " conspiracy of silence " from both Labour and the Tories on the scale of cut come down the line . one cut that have be deliver be to the high rate of capital gain for property sale . there have be enough analysis to show that charge capital gain tax at the equivalent rate of income tax would realise an additional £ 10 billion to £ 15 billion for the Treasury , yet somehow we be mean to believe that lower the upper rate will magically bring in more money . it defy logic . labour like to talk about Norway and the taxis it raise from the North sea . I like to talk about Norway , too , and the fact that it have a $ 1 . 5 trillion sovereign wealth fund , which be the big in the world . we look at Norway as what we might have be . it be not a change of Government that we need at Westminster — Order . Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish to tell you a story about modern Britain , my constituent and how their experience of a Conservative Government have leave they alone . People I know in Tamworth be struggle ; they tell I that on a daily basis . this be an issue when we have a Government who be gaslighte the public into think that they be well off under the Conservatives , yet the tax burden be the high for 70 year , wage be low and public service around they be literally crumble in a Parliament that will be define as the bad on record for living standard . Paul Johnson , the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that , come the election , tax revenue will be 3 . 9 % of national income — about £ 100 million ; high than at the time of the last election . this remain a Parliament of record tax rise . the Treasury ' s own figure make it clear that the cut to national insurance will be pay for by year of austerity affect Government Departments and our already overstretch public service . when the Conservatives ' infamous mini - Budget cause massive damage , crash the economy and send mortgage rate soar and family ' budget plummet , they leave constituent fearful for the future . despite work full time , many hard - work people find themselves struggle to make end meet . it be a shock recently to attend an event where Conservative - run Tamworth Borough Council claim there be no homeless people in Tamworth , follow the annual snapshot survey take on one day in autumn 2023 . government datum between July and September 2023 show that the council have assess that 43 household be homeless and 38 be threaten with homelessness — 81 household . accord to figure collect by the Tamworth food bank over the last 12 month , 207 user state they be of no fix address , and 56 of they be child . local charity know that there be people who be homeless in Tamworth . some be sleep in their car , some in local church , and other be sofa surf with no fixed abode . for many , the Government ' s poor stewardship of our economy have push the dream of get on the housing ladder even far away . I speak daily with parent who still have an adult child live at home because even with good wage and a deposit save there be no affordable home in their community . of the house that be be build in Tamworth , many be on the floodplain and therefore at risk when it come to flood incident . the track record be get bad and bad . the Government have slash the Environment Agency ' s resource by two third since 2010 while one in six home be now at risk of flooding and climate change be on the march . where next can I turn in this twisted tale of conservative failure ? to the high street , where shop , caf é s , restaurant and pub have suffer and where people can no long sustain the business that communitie so value . in Tamworth , our high street have receive some levelling - up funding . however , the £ 3 million shortfall follow the astronomical rise in inflation be not cover by the Government , yet the time constraint for spend the money remain . this " use it or lose it " attitude have leave destruction in its wake . as part of the project , the Peel caf é — one of our heritage building — be knock down , contrary to requirement to consult on change to the plan . our community be be cut out of conversation around regeneration . without they , we fail to plan for our future . labour offer a review of current business rate that do not support business , in an economy that have fall off the track . speak of which , my constituency be a graveyard to HS2 — £ 92 billion have be squander on a badly manage , badly scrutinise hs2 project that could have unlocked financial benefit and high network capacity across the nation . the Government claim that network speed will not be impact , but hs2 train on victorian track will run slow , mean few train per hour and decrease network capacity for Tamworth and the nation . the irony be that if the Government have do absolutely nothing and spend no money at all on rail infrastructure , we would be in a well position than we be today . let I turn to the tragedy of our public service , which be at break point and decimate after year of austerity . after 14 year of the Tory Government , more than 90 % of crime be go unsolved , mean that the criminal be less than half as likely to be catch now than when Labour be in government . tamworth no long have a police station at which to report crime . one in seven people in England be on an NHS waiting list . More than ever before , people have put their life on hold while they wait in pain and discomfort for month , even year . such a tale I have have to tell of an utterly let down country , often leave to pick up the piece . ordinary work people , family and pensioner see little to celebrate . we need a Labour Government . we need labour ' s plan . this Budget be nonsense . with four day to spend debate one single fiscal event , it would be easy to enter into Westminster village debate . instead , ahead of the Budget I spend several day knock on door in village in my Devon constituency to hear what rural resident want the Chancellor to announce . the feedback I get be plain : they care not about jibe from the Dispatch Box but about save our public service and infrastructure , include our road , which be crumble before our very eye — a metaphor for public service in general . it be little wonder that people ask I , " if this government can not even stop the road from fall apart , how on earth can they claim that thing be get well ? " it be little wonder that the erosion of our road have be mirror by the electoral erosion of the conservative party . many of the people I speak to in Devon regard this government as have little leave in the tank . it be little wonder that conspiracy theory be on the rise : people in the west country could be forgive for think that pothole be a deliberate , affordable alternative to 20 mph sign and speed bump . this Budget be such a disappointment . there be more hole in it than in the A373 between Honiton and Cullompton . it contain little in the way of support for frontline NHS and care service . it be ironic that when national insurance be introduce by a Liberal Government in 1911 , its purpose be partly as a safety net to catch people experience ill health . the Liberal Government who introduce it require contribution from employer and the state , as well as the individual . the Chancellor ' s flagship measure — the national insurance cut — fail to deliver any help for pensioner or those on fix income in the way that a rise in the income tax threshold could have do . instead of long - term investment , the Government choose a series of quick patch - up job that brush over the late crisis , rather than take the time to fill in their hole properly . the Government need to understand that funnel every last available penny they could scrape together into a national insurance cut will not turn thing around . the average pothole - relate breakdown will set driver back around £ 440 . that be the same amount that someone might have get back from this national insurance cut . one trip down a poorly maintain road and all those saving be go in a bang , as the driver shred a tyre on the edge of a crater . I be remind of drive through the street of former Yugoslavia in an Army Land Rover 20 year ago , where avoid a collision in Kosovo require a Land Rover Defender ; increasingly , it be also a requirement in Culmstock , Colyton and Combe Raleigh . if small business be the engine of our local economy , investment in our road network be the lubricant in rural area such as Devon . the road be the ribbon that connect our town and village . in recent year , many have become impassable . almost every single week , my postbag be flood with correspondence about pothole . I fear that if I be to plot they on a map , those report across mid and east Devon would hardly leave any road leave . they be certainly one of the thing that people be most annoyed about . that be why the £ 6 . 6 million announce for Devon ' s road be nothing more than a smokescreen . it go nowhere near what be genuinely require to fix the underlying problem . it be not just I say that . the conservative leader of Devon County Council , John Hart , who be ultimately responsible for the maintenance of our road in Devon , say the funding be a " drop in the ocean " . he go on to say that while the council be give an extra £ 9 . 5 million for road last year , £ 7 million of that repair money be immediately eat up by inflation . last April , the council be force to announce that it only have the capacity to maintain priority road , allow other vital road to endure a " manage decline " . this be a shameful state of affair . it say something when get on a horse and ride over the roll hill of Devon may be the good way of traverse our county for the first time in over 100 year . figure from the Department for Transport lie the issue bare — these statistic just can not be argue with . just 18 . 6 mile of road in Devon have improvement work do in the year to March 2023 , down from 273 . 6 mile five year ago , all under the Conservatives ' watch . the Budget be a miss opportunity . the Government know that they have lose the race and be now simply limp to the finish line . the people of Devon deserve so much well . they demand well . they know that , in the rural area of the west country , the only way to get it be to vote Liberal Democrat . I know that the resident of Putney , Southfields , Roehampton and Wandsworth town will be watch this debate , because they tell I all the time as I go out and about in the constituency that they watch the Parliament channel . I also know that they will be very , very disappointed by the Budget . they will have see nothing for our decline high street , nothing for youth centre , and nothing to tackle the cost of living crisis that mean that there be high bill but less money for my constituent week after week after week . the theme of this debate be productivity , which be fundamental for our competitiveness , wage growth , ability to attract investment and overall future economic wellbeing — in fact , our wellbeing as a whole . without growth , we can not have the hope for the future , the hope for our young people and the boost for our economy that we need . I will focus on one area of under - investment which have mean a chronic lack of productivity across the UK , an area of investment that be essential to tackle the climate crisis , boost our economy and give young people hope : green skill . I be disappointed to hear in the Budget that there be no new policy to help boost the roll - out of low - carbon technology such as electric vehicle or heat pump . there be a clear need for well alignment between net zero investment and the skill and employment system . that be the problem that lead to our poor productivity at the moment . Solar Energy UK call the Budget " virtually nude " of anything to bolster that sector . we can not begin to move in the right direction on green productivity without have the process in place to embed green skill within our economic infrastructure , but we need a whole industry and skill approach . there be a massive shortage of heat pump engineer . we currently have 3 , 000 , but we will need 27 , 000 by 2028 . offshore wind industry engineer number need to triple to just over 104 , 000 to meet our current target , let alone our future one . political choice have lead to that under - investment and under - skilling . the Institute for Public Policy Research find that the UK employ few people in renewable energy as a proportion of the working age population than most other european country . it do not have to be that way . in my constituency , South Thames College offer course in green skill and solar panel fitting . it be take proactive step , respond to the wide range of green job arise across the economy . by help student to move into apprenticeship or job , South Thames College show that it be ahead of the curve in adopt a join - up approach . also in my constituency be Treadlighter , a solar energy company in Southfields . it be boom , but it can not keep up with demand because it need more skilled trainee and staff to fit panel . matching skill with green business be essential , but government inaction be currently hold back productivity . a whole new approach be need throughout the economy to secure a seamless transition between training , education , manufacturing , supply and service , but we do not see any of that in the Budget . we see no new boost , and nothing about the new revolution in green skill that would be so exciting for our economy and would give we hope . the Government ' s green job delivery group have be meet for a year and plan to publish its green job plan soon , but the Budget have give nothing to the green energy industry , so I have no high hope for that plan . we in the Labour party know how important to our success invest for the future will be , which be why we have commit ourselves to spend £ 23 . 5 billion during our first Parliament in government in order to deliver green power by 2030 . Green British Energy , a publicly own energy company , will invest in green energy project include offshore wind , hydrogen , carbon capture , tidal and nuclear . if we can match that with the green skill revolution , we really will have the productivity that we need to change the amount of money in the pocket of people across my constituency . the no . 1 mission of the next Labour Government be to get our economy grow so that Britain will be well off , and we will do it through stability , investment and reform . that mean bring stability back so that we can protect family finance with tough fiscal rule and a long - term plan for our economy , it mean invest in british business so we can unlock ten of million of pound of private sector investment for our town and city , and it mean reform planning so we can boost growth and get Britain build again . the Conservatives be miss in action . they have run out of idea , they have run out of ambition and hope , and they have run out of all the way in which growth can be boost . it be time for a new approach : it be time for a Labour Government . to make the last Back - Bench speech of this Budget debate , I call the ever patient Ruth Jones . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I know my patience would be reward in the end . I be pleased to be able to say a few word on behalf of the people of Newport West . I be just sorry that those word will be about such a bad budget — a miss opportunity , and a let - down for my constituent . I congratulate the Leader of the Opposition on his powerful and compassionate response to the Budget on Wednesday . I also congratulate all my right hon . and hon . friend who have speak in recent day , especially the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , who , early this afternoon , call out so powerfully and forensically the lack of a Government plan . week in and week out , real people come to my office , write to I , email I and call my team to describe their struggle to heat their home , feed their family and pay their mortgage . since my election to this place in 2019 , my brilliant team have deal with people in desperate need throughout my constituency . with each fiscal event from this tired Tory Government , my constituent have be move from get by to struggle , or , even bad , from struggle to absolute poverty . since I be elect , absolute child poverty in Newport West — the percentage of child live in household with income below 60 % of the median income — have remain at about 15 % . that be shocking , and nothing have change . the UK rate be also 15 % , so this be a british problem , and nothing in the Budget will make thing well for work people . the people who have all the power to help be sit right over there on the Government Benches . the Chancellor , who seem to be feel the pressure in his constituency , could have deliver a Budget that invest in this country . he could have take meaningful action to mitigate the cost of living crisis , and he could have genuinely help people . I know , we all know and , bad of all , the Conservatives know that they could have do far more to help ordinary people , but they make the political choice not to . one of my constituent who have have problem with obtain the warm home discount write to I recently that " people have to beg for help , and they get feed up with the long draw out process . many be not get the help that be promise by the government . " that be the real - life experience of people in my area , and I urge Ministers to wake up and take action . this Budget confirm that the UK have the high tax burden in 70 year , which will rise in every year of the forecast period . the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s figure show that for every 10p extra that work people will pay in tax under the Tories ' plan , they will get back only 5p as a result of the combine national insurance cut . that include the OBR ' s revised estimate for the impact of tax threshold freeze , which will raise £ 41 . 1 billion over the forecast period , create 3 . 7 million new taxpayer by 2028 - 29 . give everything that be not in the Budget , we should all be very afraid . we should think about the £ 46 billion - worth of unfunded tax cut that have be promise by the Chancellor and the Prime Minister . this reckless attempt to save their own job , with no regard for anyone else ' s , expose the clear risk of have five more year under the Conservatives . they will gamble with the public finance , and work people will be force to pay the price yet again . this Tory Government clearly have not learn anything since the former Prime Minister crash the economy and send mortgage spiral , leave a real impact on working - class and middle - income people . I be proud to stand for my party , because we know that with my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) in charge of the Treasury , Labour will never play fast and loose with the nation ' s finance . I have hear nothing from the Government that improve the life of ordinary people in Newport West . if they can not or , bad , will not take the action need to get our country back on track , they should make way for a fresh start from Labour . this be a bad budget , with nothing for Newport West . after 14 long year , it be time for change , time for a fresh start , and time for we to change course and get our country back on track . let the public decide . call the general election now — it be time for change . I call the shadow Minister . this Budget be the last gasp of a die , desperate government . it do nothing to address 14 year of conservative economic failure and , as always with this Government , it be work people who pay the price . many Opposition Members have make powerful contribution to today ' s debate , and I apologise for not be able to mention every single one . however , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) , who say it be his last ever Budget speech today . the british people be struggle with the high tax burden in 70 year , and they still face further tax rise over the next five year — a point that be powerfully make by my hon . friend the Members for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) and for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) . food price be still 25 % high than they be two year ago . rent be up by 10 % , and a typical family will pay an extra £ 240 a month when remortgage this year . nothing the Chancellor say in last week ' s budget change that . as much as he try , he can not hide from his Government ' s record : 14 year of low investment , stagnant wage and poor productivity , the country in recession , wreck public finance and an economy cripple by debt . the Chancellor try to wash away the reality last week , but family in our constituency can not do the same . People feel bad off under the Conservatives because they be bad off . as my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Walton ( Dan Carden ) focus on , the Office for Budget Responsibility — not we — have now confirm that this will be the bad Parliament on record for living standard . let I repeat that , because it be worth repeat : this will be the bad Parliament on record for living standard . it be the only Parliament on record in which living standard have fall . real pay have go up by just £ 17 a week over almost a decade and a half of this Conservative Government . when the Labour party be last in power , wage rise by £ 183 a week over 13 year . after 14 year of conservative rule , people have less money in their pocket . as my hon . friend the Member for Bedford ( Mohammad Yasin ) touch on , the late ONS figure show seven consecutive quarter of fall GDP per capita from the start of 2022 . this be the long period of economic stagnation in this country since the 1950 , and now , under this Prime Minister and this Chancellor , the country have fall into recession . government debt have almost triple under the Conservatives from £ 1 trillion to just under £ 2 . 6 trillion . do last week ' s Budget give the british people or british business any hope that the Government could turn thing around ? absolutely not . household disposable income be set to fall by £ 200 per person over the course of this Parliament . real GDP per capita be expect to be low at the end of this year than it be at the start of this Parliament , and borrowing have be revise up in the next five year of the forecast period . the Institute of Directors describe the Chancellor ' s effort as an " unremarkable Budget for business " , and the British Retail Consortium have say that it " will do nothing to turbo charge investment and growth in community " . this be a failed Budget from a fail government . do my hon . friend agree that this Conservative Budget have confirm that the next Government will receive the bad economic inheritance since the second world war ? do she agree that the Tories should listen to our constituent , call a general election now and stop take a wreck ball to the economy on their way out the door ? [ interruption . ] I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . those on the conservative Benches do not want to hear it , but if they have so much confidence in their record , why do they not do as she ask , call a general election and put a test to the public ? unable to defend his own Government ' s record and unable to offer any plan to get the country out of the economic mess that his party create , this Chancellor have resort to undeliverable promise . when we think thing could not get any bad , the Chancellor bizarrely end his Budget last week with a £ 46 billion unfunded tax plan to abolish national insurance . this would leave a gape hole in the public finance , put family finance at risk and create huge uncertainty for our pensioner . this be even big than the unfunded tax cut announce in the Conservatives ' mini - Budget that add hundred of pound to people ' s mortgage , as my hon . friend the Member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) powerfully point out . I will be listen intently to the Minister ' s response today , and I hope that he will set out how his Government would fill that gape hole in the public finance to avoid rerun the disastrous experiment that crash the economy just 18 month ago . do my hon . friend agree that it be absurd that throughout today ' s event the Government have be unable to confirm how they will pay for their unfunded £ 46 billion plan to abolish national insurance contribution ? where be the money come from ? rise — I thank the hon . Lady for give way . I ask early about what the Institute for Fiscal Studies have call a conspiracy of silence from both Labour and the Conservatives . be labour stick with the bake - in £ 20 billion of future departmental cut that be in the Budget , and if not , how be Labour go to pay for that ? rise — order . I fully appreciate the orchestration , but it would be quite a good idea if one intervention be respond to before the next one be make . apology , Mr Deputy Speaker . I will answer both intervention by say that I know those on the conservative Benches do not want to hear it , but if you make a pledge without the plan , you have to clarify where the money be come from — [ Laughter . ] it be not a laugh matter . it be cause havoc in people ' s finance . then again , nothing would surprise I from this clown show of a Government . Less than a week after commit to a british ISA , the Chancellor have apparently u - turn and ditch the plan until after the election , because he have apparently just notice that he have no idea how he be go to pay for it . another u - turn , another uncosted announcement , another promise without a plan from this clueless Conservative Government . turn to the other tax cut in the Budget , Labour have consistently say that we want to reduce the tax burden on work people . that be why , when the current Prime Minister want to increase national insurance two year ago , we oppose it . let we be under no illusion : we support the measure announce last week to bring national insurance down by an additional 2 % , but that do not change the fact that this Government have raise the tax burden to record level and taxis be continue to rise . under the Chancellor ' s plan , household will be £ 870 bad off on average . his decision to freeze tax threshold will create 3 . 7 million taxpayer by 2028 - 29 . as my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) point out , OBR figure show that , as a result of last week ' s announcement , for every 10p extra that work people pay in tax under the Conservatives , they will get only 5p back . and the Government expect the british public to thank they for it ! however the Chancellor try to spin it , his Budget mean that Britain will go into the next general election with taxis at their high level since 1949 . although we will always call out the Conservatives for pickpockete the british taxpayer , we welcome their recent pickpocketing of Labour policy . Labour have long argue that people who make Britain their home should pay their taxis here . bizarrely , however , the Prime Minister say that scrap the non - dom status would somehow cost Britain money . even more bizarrely , the Chancellor previously try to argue that the non - dom status support job and that reform it would cause long - term damage to growth . I hope the Economic Secretary to the Treasury will explain what cause this road to Damascus moment . be he personally responsible for finally get his party to listen to we about the importance of close the non - dom loophole , which the OBR estimate will raise £ 3 billion a year ? as my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall South ( Valerie Vaz ) and my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) say , Labour first call for the loophole to be close two year ago , mean that the Government have cost the country £ 6 billion that could have be spend on precious public service . I do not deny that the conservative party have come a long way since their opposition to our windfall tax on oil and gas producer but , even after yesterday ' s announcement of a one - year extension , the Chancellor be leave loophole that mean the energy giant will still pay billion less in tax . surely the Government have learn by now that they would save themselves a lot of time , and the country a lot of money , if they adopt labour ' s policy in full . this exhausted and directionless Conservative Government be out of idea and out of time . all they have to offer last week be unfunded promise and an ever grow tax burden on work people . in contrast , our offer to the country will be carefully cost and fully fund , and it will always put work people first . the Conservatives have fail on growth , fail on living standard and deliver only stagnation and chaos . labour ' s economic plan will build on the pillar of stability , investment and reform : stability bring about by iron discipline and guard by strong fiscal rule and robust economic institution . [ interruption . ] conservative Members love chuntering , but they would hear our plan if they listen properly . investment — we will work with the private sector so that we can lead the industry of the future and make work pay . reform — start with our planning system , we will take on vested interest to get Britain build again . Britain deserve well , Britain deserve change and the british people deserve an election . it be a pleasure to close these three day of debate on the Government ' s spring Budget . before I get on to more contentious point , I will start on some common ground . we all know that the last few year have be tough for our country . we all know that this Government have spend more than £ 400 billion on protect life and livelihood after covid . we all know that Putin ' s war in Ukraine send energy price to unprecedented high , and that this have have a huge impact on our economy . since 2023 this Government have principally work to three economic priority : halve inflation , grow the economy and reduce the national debt . we have make good progress on each of those priority . [ interruption . ] opposition member should wait for it . inflation have more than halve , go from 11 % to 4 % . our economy be expect to grow fast than many of our major european neighbour and partner over the medium term . the IMF predict that over the come four year we will be the third quick grow economy in the G7 . the OBR have confirm that national debt be on track to fall in line with our fiscal rule . member across the House may say , " a lot do ; a lot more to do " , but this prudent and responsible Budget take we one step close to tackle the inflation that have harm the economy , to deal with the low growth and poor productivity that have hamper we , and towards a bright future . we have already have much success . that be why we be able to afford to cut national insurance for 29 million people . we will responsibly go far than that , as long as the country can afford it . ask last week about the Government ' s commitment to abolish national insurance contribution , the Minister say " we ' d like to continue along that track " — more of a cul - de - sac , in my humble opinion — but today the Minister have be silent on that plan for a huge £ 46 billion unfunded tax commitment . will the Minister tell we if it be still the Prime Minister ' s plan to resurrect the Trussonomics mini - Budget package of last year ? it be not our plan to resurrect anything from the mini - Budget . we have our plan and we set it out in our Budget . as the son of a doctor and a pharmacist , as many of we be on the Government Benches , I be mindful that any good doctor will say that in order for the medicine to work , one have to complete the course and stick to the plan . this Budget stick to the plan we set out in 2023 and have three key objective : to reward work , to grow the economy and to improve productivity . before I get on to those point , I will address some of the remark make by hon . member during the debate . the hon . member for Makerfield ( Yvonne Fovargue ) make a point about some of the most vulnerable in our country and their access to credit . I commend her long - stand support for her constituent , include the most vulnerable . we be extend the household support fund , as she will know , and we be make it easy to access the debt relief order . the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) welcome the decision to extend the household support fund . in response to his question about make the fund permanent , that be a decision for the next fiscal event , whenever that will be . I say to member of all party who be concerned for the most vulnerable that this be a Budget and a Government for they . since 2010 , the real income — the take - home pay — of those work full time on the national living wage be 35 % great than it be in 2010 . on rewarding work , thank to the action that this Government have already take , fall inflation mean that wage in real term be on the up , even while unemployment be low . in response to the question raise by the hon . member for Liverpool , Walton ( Dan Carden ) , real household income overall have increase by 8 % since 2010 . but we all know that we can go far . the simple and most effective way to do so be by reduce people ' s taxis and get rid of the double taxation on work , which mean reduce national insurance . I be listen carefully to the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , who be a man I rather like . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] I rather admire he . we come to the House at the same time . we be practically the same age — he be about five month young than I , but let we not go into that . but I be very surprised to hear he say — he can intervene on I if this be not correct — that it be " morally abhorrent " to cut national insurance . I always welcome the chance to return to the Dispatch Box . just to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question , I say that it be morally abhorrent to abolish national insurance contribution at a cut of £ 46 billion a year with no plan to pay for it . the Minister have the opportunity once again to tell we how he be go to fund the £ 46 billion . this be great fun , Mr Deputy Speaker . I say to the shadow Chief Secretary that we have be very clear about this . we have cut national insurance by a third in the last two fiscal event . it be our long - term ambition to do so and to eliminate this double taxation on work . if Labour member do not believe that we should eliminate this double taxation , they should say so . rise — no , I will not give way . I wish to make some progress . my hon . friend the Members for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) , for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) , and for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) see the wisdom and the importance of cut national insurance by a third and what that mean for ordinary people . from April this year , we will have take a third off , which mean £ 900 a year for the average worker . some Opposition Members sniff at that . they do not think that that be very much money . we know that , for million of people across the country , that will make a huge difference to their life , and we be very proud to support it . over and above the national insurance cut , this Budget set out a plan that reward hard - work family . a lifetime of work should support the job of a lifetime : be a parent . for too long , hard - work parent have be unfairly penalise by our tax system — I be very glad that the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) from the Liberal Democrats recognise that and support our plan . that be why we be raise the child benefit threshold to £ 60 , 000 and increase the level at which the support be completely withdraw to £ 80 , 000 . this be not do out of some ideological fancy . we be do it because it will encourage growth in the labour market and generate an increase in work hour equivalent to around 10 , 000 people enter the workforce full time . so this one act on childcare that the Chancellor have put forward will save nearly half a million family an average of around £ 1 , 300 per annum in addition to the national insurance cut . we also want to support those who make a career out of childcare , which be why , build on our announcement at the last Budget to extend 30 hour of free childcare a week to all child age nine month and old of work parent , my right hon . friend the Chancellor say that the Government will guarantee the hourly rate to ensure that private childcare provider can step up to deliver this offer . secondly , as many member across the House have note , this be a Budget for long - term growth . growth mean more opportunity . growth mean great prosperity for family and firm . and , yes , growth mean high funding for our public service . the Minister know full well that the autumn statement have £ 20 billion of future cut to public service and this Budget bake it in . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have call it a conspiracy of silence from both Labour and the Conservatives . he talk about long - term growth and an increase in public service , but will he come clean about that £ 20 billion cut and what the Government will do about it ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that point . if he look in the Red Book , he will see that the forecast for the next spending review period be that real - term spend on public service — the whole House should hear this , because I have hear lot of discussion from Opposition Members about cut and slashing — will go up every year by 1 % in addition to inflation . we be build on a stable foundation for that growth . against the backdrop of economic uncertainty , business investment — one of the chronic difficulty for our economy for generation — grow last year , and will be about 11 % of our gdp this year . at the Budget , we outline next step on the autumn statement ' s £ 4 . 5 billion funding package for strategic manufacturing , which many member mention , particularly the hon . member for Birmingham , Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) . that deliver the next stage of expansion for our high - growth industry . to complement that , we be commit to ensure the UK have the most attractive investment tax regime of any G7 or large european country . we have the low corporation tax rate in the G7 . at the autumn statement , to complement that support for business and for growth , we announce that we would introduce permanent full expensing , which allow company to claim , in the first year , 100 % capital allowance on qualify investment . at this Budget , the Chancellor confirm that draft legislation on extend full expensing far to asset for leasing will be publish shortly . I be very glad that my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Andrew Jones ) and the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) support that investment . the theme of today ' s debate — improve productivity — be barely mention by Opposition Members . I echo what the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my right hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , say in her opening speech : when it come to our public service , what the public care about be whether their service improve . that mean focus on outcome , not just input . opposition Members be very , very fond of talk about input and how there be apparently there be all these cut — this slashing and burning of public service — but they be not very fond of talk about our productivity plan and how we be invest to improve outcome . I will tell you a secret , Mr Deputy Speaker : the reason they be not fond of it be that they know it would upset their union paymaster . that be why they do not want to talk about it . they do not believe in well public service , which would mean well value for money for the taxpayer , because they do not believe in well value for money . they do not believe in well support for frontline worker to actually do their job properly because they just want more money for their union paymaster . they do not believe in well result . they talk the talk but refuse to walk the walk , because they do not understand what it be to take any tough decision . I agree with something that the hon . member for Ilford South ( Sam Tarry ) say . he say that we can not cut our way to prosperity , and I agree . that be why we be invest in our productivity plan and invest comprehensively in the NHS , as my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) set out compassionately and powerfully . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , and then I will give way . from upgrade computer system to use artificial intelligence to automate task , we will upgrade the NHS ' s technology for the 21st century . that be only part of our programme of reform to bring the whole of Government into the digital era and generate productivity improvement , include through structural investment — and what a win it would be . the National Audit Office and the Office for Budget Responsibility , body that Opposition member be always terribly keen to quote — [ interruption . ] they should listen to what they have say about productivity and outcome . the OBR say : " raise public sector productivity by 5 per cent " , which will bring we back to where we be before the pandemic , " would be the equivalent of around £ 20 billion extra in funding " . that be why we be do it . that be why the work that my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary be do be so important . before I conclude , I think we can all agree , include Opposition back Benchers , that it be impossible to know where the Labour party stand on anything these day . we use to know where it stand . the sad thing about the one concrete plan that it do have be that there be a document list all the project under the £ 28 billion and go through every constituency . that be the only plan they have , but they have drop it . they should talk to the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) as to whether he be happy about that . Labour member be confused and I feel sorry for they . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Hampstead and Kilburn ( Tulip Siddiq ) be chuntere from a sedentary position , but I be come to she next , don ' t worry . labour be so confused that , by the way she be go on , one would think that she be a disciple of Peter Thorneycroft and Nigel Lawson . she be so keen on low taxis and sound money that I almost want to invite she to join we on the Government Benches . but then I remember something : in one of her first act as a Labour MP , she decide to mount the barricade and nominate the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) for leadership of the Labour party . I wonder whether she have tell the Leader of the Opposition that that be where her heart lie . look , I do not want to be mean spirited — it do not suit I very well . it might surprise you , Mr Deputy Speaker , to learn that I actually rather admire the right hon . member for Islington North . he believe in thing and have idea , unlike the shadow Treasury team , who do not even have the semblance of a coherent plan or any belief at all , as it turn out . we know that this will not bother the shadow Chancellor . where be she , by the way ? she be probably too busy on her smoke salmon offensive in the City of London , pretend to love banker , to have time to think of any new idea . she be on Wikipedia , cut and pasting . she be cut and paste . I can not see she , but if she need idea and be happy to come in , there be always the option — and she have do it before — to cut and paste from someone else . I do not want to mislead the House , Mr Deputy Speaker , but the shadow Chancellor do have one aspect to her economic plan — forgive I for forget about it — and , as the deputy leader of the Labour party know , it be call the worker ’ plan . true to form , the shadow Chancellor have cut and paste this plan from the trade union to such a degree that it might as well be call the union ' plan . it give sweeping licence to union over our whole economy , which will kill job , hurt our productivity and undo the good work of this Budget and this Chancellor . this Budget be a plan for the future , a plan for job , a plan for growth , a plan for productivity , a plan on the side of work people , and I commend it to the House . question put . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Chris Law David Linden Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Anum Qaisar Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Pete Wishart Kirsty Blackman Gavin Newlands the House divide : Ayes 318 , Noes 43 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2024 - 25 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary to dispose of the motion make in the name of the Chancellor of the Exchequer ( Standing Order no . 51 ( 3 ) ) . 2 . income tax ( main rate ) resolve , that for the tax year 2024 - 25 the main rate of income tax be as follow — ( a ) the basic rate be 20 % , ( b ) the high rate be 40 % , and ( c ) the additional rate be 45 % . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 3 . income tax ( default and saving rate ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) for the tax year 2024 - 25 the default rate of income tax be as follow — ( a ) the default basic rate be 20 % , ( b ) the default high rate be 40 % , and ( c ) the default additional rate be 45 % . ( 2 ) for the tax year 2024 - 25 the saving rate of income tax be as follow — ( a ) the saving basic rate be 20 % , ( b ) the saving high rate be 40 % , and ( c ) the saving additional rate be 45 % . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 4 . income tax ( start rate limit for saving ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) for the tax year 2024 - 25 the amount specify in section 12 ( 3 ) of the Income Tax Act 2007 ( the starting rate limit for saving ) be " £ 5 , 000 " . ( 2 ) accordingly , section 21 of that Act ( indexation ) do not apply in relation to the starting rate limit for saving for that tax year . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 5 . high income child benefit charge ( increase in threshold ) resolve , that provision may be make — ( a ) amend section 681b ( l ) ( a ) and 681C ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Income Tax ( Earnings and Pensions ) Act 2003 by substitute " £ 60 , 000 * ' for " £ 50 , 000 " , and ( b ) amending section 681C ( 2 ) ( b ) of that Act by substitute " £ 200 " for " £ 100 " . 6 . capital gain tax ( reduction in high rate for residential property gain to 24 % ) question put , that — ( 1 ) in section 1h of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 ( the main rate of CGT ) — ( a ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) residential property gain ( see Schedule ib ) accrue in a tax year to an individual be charge to capital gain tax at a rate of 18 % or 24 % . " , ( b ) in subsection ( 2 ) , omit paragraph ( a ) together with the " or " at the end of the paragraph , ( c ) after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) residential property gain accrue in a tax year to the personal representative of a deceased individual be charge to capital gain tax at a rate 24 % . " , ( d ) in subsection ( 5 ) , omit paragraph ( a ) together with the " or " at the end of the paragraph , and ( e ) in subsection ( 7 ) , for " 28 % " substitute " 24 % " . ( 2 ) in section ii of that Act ( income tax at high rate or gain exceed unused basic rate band ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( i ) before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) at the rate of 24 % ( if they be residential property gain ) , " , and ( ii ) in that paragraph , omit " residential property gain or " , ( b ) in subsection ( 2 ) , in the word after paragraph ( b ) — ( i ) after " be charge at the rate of " insert " 24 % ( so far as comprise residential property gain ) , at the rate of " , and ( ii ) omit " residential property gain or " , ( c ) in subsection ( 5 ) — ( i ) before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) at the rate of 24 % ( if they be residential property gain ) , " , and ( ii ) in that paragraph , omit " residential property gain or " , and ( d ) in subsection ( 9 ) — ( i ) before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) at the rate of 24 % ( if they be residential property gain ) , " and ( ii ) in that paragraph , omit " residential property gain or " . ( 3 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to disposal make on or after 6 April 2024 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn George Galloway Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Anum Qaisar Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Kirsty Blackman Gavin Newlands the House divide : Ayes 317 , Noes 46 . question accordingly agree to . 7 . stamp duty land tax ( abolition of multiple dwelling relief ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) section 58d of , and schedule 6b to , the Finance Act 2003 ( relief for transfer involve multiple dwelling ) be repeal . ( 2 ) in consequence of the repeal of those provision — ( a ) in Part 4 of the Finance Act 2003 — ( i ) in section 87 ( 3 ) ( interest on unpaid tax : meaning of " relevant date " ) , omit paragraph ( aza ) , ( ii ) in Schedule 4A ( high rate for certain transaction ) , in paragraph 2 ( 6 ) , omit paragraph ( d ) and , in paragraph 7 , for sub - paragraph ( 6 ) substitute — " ( 6 ) in sub - paragraph ( 5 ) — " contract " include any agreement ; " relevant deeming provision " mean any of section 44 to 45a , paragraph 5 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of schedule 2A or paragraph 12a or 19 ( 3 ) of Schedule 17a . " , ( iii ) in Schedule 5 ( amount of tax chargeable : rent ) , in paragraph 9 , in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) , omit " or 6b " and , in sub - paragraph ( 5 ) , omit " or schedule 6b " , ( iv ) in Schedule 10 ( return , enquiry , assessment and appeal ) , in paragraph 12 ( 2A ) ( a ) , for " , 81 a " substitute " or 81 a " and omit " or paragraph 6 of schedule 6b ( adjustment for change of circumstance ) " , and ( v ) in Schedule 15 ( partnership ) , in paragraph 11 ( 2C ) and 19 ( 2C ) , in the substitute paragraph , omit " or 6B " , ( b ) in Schedule 36 to the Finance Act 2008 ( information and inspection power ) , in paragraph 21a ( 7 ) , omit paragraph ( b ) and the " or " before it , and ( c ) in the Finance Act 2011 , omit section 83 and Schedule 22 ( transfer involve multiple dwelling ) . ( 3 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to land transaction the effective date of which fall on or after 1 June 2024 . ( 4 ) but those amendment do not have effect in relation to a land transaction if — ( a ) the transaction be effect in pursuance of a contract enter into and substantially perform before 1 June 2024 , or ( b ) the transaction be effect in pursuance of a contract enter into on or before 6 March 2024 and be not exclude . ( 5 ) for this purpose a land transaction be exclude if — ( a ) there be any variation of the contract , or assignment of right under the contract , after 6 March 2024 , ( b ) the transaction be effect in consequence of the exercise after that date of any option , right of pre - emption or similar right , or ( c ) after that date , there be an assignment , subsale or other transaction relate to the whole or part of the subject - matter of the contract as a result of which a person other than the purchaser under the contract become entitled to call for a conveyance . ( 6 ) if — ( a ) pre - commencement land transaction be link to post - commencement land transaction , and ( b ) all of the transaction would ( but for this Resolution ) be relevant transaction for the purpose of schedule 6b to the Finance Act 2003 , a claim under that Schedule be available only in relation to the pre - commencement land transaction . ( 7 ) if a claim under that Schedule be make in relation to those transaction , none of the post - commencement land transaction be to be regard any long as link to any of the pre - commencement land transaction for the purpose of schedule 6b to the Finance Act 2003 and all other purpose of Part 4 of that Act . ( 8 ) for this purpose — " pre - commencement land transaction " mean land transaction the effective date of which fall before 1 June 2024 or which meet the condition in paragraph ( 4 ) ( a ) or ( b ) , and " post - commencement land transaction " mean all other land transaction . ( 9 ) the amendment make by this Resolution also do not have effect in relation to land transaction the effective date of which fall on or after 1 June 2024 if they fall within a description of land transaction specify in regulation make by the Treasury ( irrespective of the date on which the regulation be make ) . ( 10 ) the regulation may make provision of a kind mention in section 114 ( 6 ) ( a ) to ( c ) of the Finance Act 2003 but may not be make on or after 1 February 2025 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 8 . stamp duty land tax ( first - time buyer ’ relief : new lease acquire on bare trust ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) schedule 6za to the Finance Act 2003 ( relief for first - time buyer ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Part 1 ( eligibility for relief ) , after paragraph 3 insert — " Eligibility for relief : acquisition of new lease on bare trust 3a in determine who be the purchaser for the purpose of paragraph 1 ( 4 ) and 2 ( 2 ) , paragraph 3 of Schedule 16 be to have effect as if sub - paragraph ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) ( trustee of bare trust grant a lease treat as purchaser of the whole of the interest acquire ) be omit . " ( 3 ) in paragraph 6 ( definition of " first - time buyer " ) , at the end insert — " ( 3 ) in determine any question for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , paragraph 3 of Schedule 16 be to have effect as if sub - paragraph ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) ( trustee of bare trust grant a lease treat as purchaser of the whole of the interest acquire ) be omit . " ( 4 ) the amendment make by paragraph ( 2 ) have effect for the purpose of claim for relief under paragraph 1 of Schedule 6za to the Finance Act 2003 make in relation to any land transaction the effective date of which fall on or after 6 March 2024 . ( 5 ) the amendment make by paragraph ( 3 ) also have effect for the purpose of claim for relief under that paragraph make in relation to any land transaction the effective date of which fall on or after that date unless — ( a ) the transaction be effect in pursuance of a contract enter into on or before that date , and ( b ) the transaction be not exclude , ( 6 ) for this purpose a land transaction be exclude if — ( a ) there be any variation of the contract , or assignment of right under the contract , after 6 March 2024 , ( b ) the transaction be effect in consequence of the exercise after that date of any option , right of pre - emption or similar right , or ( c ) after that date , there be an assignment , subsale or other transaction relate to the whole or part of the subject - matter of the contract as a result of which a person other than the purchaser under the contract become entitled to call for a conveyance . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 9 . stamp duty land tax ( register provider of social housing ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) section 71 of the Finance Act 2003 ( certain acquisition by register social landlord ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in the heading , for " register social landlord " substitute " register provider of social housing etc " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for paragraph ( a ) substitute — " ( a ) the purchaser be a non - profit register provider of social housing control by its tenant , " . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 1A ) — ( a ) for paragraph ( b ) substitute — " ( b ) a housing association register in the register maintain under Article 14 of the Housing ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1992 ( s . I . 1992 / 1725 ( n . 1 . 15 ) ) , or ( c ) an english local authority that be a registered provider of social housing . " , and ( b ) omit the " or " after paragraph ( a ) . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 2 ) for " relevant housing provider " , in each place it occur , substitute " non - profit register provider of social housing " . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( a ) omit paragraph ( b ) and ( e ) to ( g ) , and ( b ) for paragraph ( h ) substitute — " ( h ) the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland , or " . ( 7 ) in subsection ( 4 ) , omit paragraph ( b ) and ( d ) ( but not the " or " after paragraph ( d ) ) . ( 8 ) in subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) after " mean " insert " — ( a ) any amount that be receipt of the disposal of social housing , provide the purchaser be entitle to use the amount for the purpose of the provision of social housing , or ( b ) " , and ( b ) in paragraph ( b ) ( which be a result of the previous amendment ) , omit the word from " within " to the end . ( 9 ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 6 ) in subsection ( 5 ) " social housing " have the meaning it have in Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 ( see , in particular , section 68 of that Act ) . ( 7 ) in this section " english local authority " mean — ( a ) a principal council within the meaning of the Local Government Act 1972 , or ( b ) the Common Council of the City of London . " ( 10 ) in section 121 of the Finance Act 2003 ( minor definition ) , omit the definition of " register social landlord " . ( 11 ) in section 122 of that Act ( index of define expression ) , omit the entry for " register social landlord " . ( 12 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to land transaction the effective date of which fall on or after 6 March 2024 . ( 13 ) in consequence of those amendment , in section 150 of the Finance Act 2013 ( annual tax on envelop dwelling : relief for provider of social housing etc ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) — ( i ) for " relevant " substitute " qualifying " , and ( ii ) omit the word from " ( that " to " landlord ) " , ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " relevant " , in each place it occur , substitute " qualifying " , and ( c ) for paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) in subsection ( 4 ) substitute — " ( a ) subsection ( 2 ) of section 71 of fa 2003 apply in relation to a reference to a qualifying housing provider control by its tenant as it apply to a reference in that section to a non - profit register provider of social housing control by its tenant ; ( b ) " qualify body " mean — ( i ) anything describe as a qualifying body in subsection ( 3 ) of that section , ( ii ) the Scottish Ministers , ( iii ) a council constitute under section 2 of the Local Government etc . ( Scotland ) Act 1994 , or ( iv ) Scottish Homes ; ( c ) " public subsidy " mean — ( i ) anything that be a public subsidy for the purpose of section 71 of fa 2003 , and for the purpose of this section the reference in subsection ( 5 ) ( a ) of that section to " the purchaser " be to be treat as a reference to p or the qualifying housing provider ( as the case may be ) ; ( ii ) any grant or other financial assistance under section 18 of the Housing Act 1996 ( c . 52 ) ( social housing grant ) ; ( iii ) any grant or other financial assistance under section 2 of the Housing ( Scotland ) Act 1988 ( c . 43 ) ( general function of the Scottish Ministers ) ; ( d ) " qualify housing provider " mean — ( i ) a relevant housing provider ( within the meaning of section 71 of fa 2003 ) , ( ii ) a body register as a social landlord in a register maintain under section 1 ( 1 ) of the Housing Act 1996 ( Welsh register social landlord ) , or ( iii ) a body register under section 20 ( 1 ) of the Housing ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 17 ) ( scottish register social landlord ) . " ( 14 ) paragraph ( 13 ) come into force on 6 March 2024 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 10 . stamp duty land tax ( purchase by public body ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4A to the Finance Act 2003 ( application of the high rate of 15 % to transaction where purchaser be a company etc ) — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) and ( b ) , after " company " insert " but be not a public body " , and ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) , at the end insert " and , for the purpose of that sub - paragraph , whether a person be a public body be to be determine in accordance with section 66 " . ( 2 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to land transaction the effective date of which fall on or after 6 March 2024 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 11 . inheritance tax ( agricultural property relief and woodland relief ) resolve , that provision may be make for the purpose of inheritance tax restrict agricultural property relief and woodland relief to land in the United Kingdom . 12 . corporation tax ( charge and main rate for financial year 2025 ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make — ( a ) for corporation tax to be charge for the financial year 2025 , and ( b ) for the main rate of corporation tax for that year to be 25 % . 13 . corporation tax ( standard small profit rate and fraction for financial year 2025 ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make — ( a ) for the standard small profit rate to be 19 % for the purpose of Part 3A of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the financial year 2025 , and ( b ) for the standard marginal relief fraction to be 3 / 200ths for those purpose for that year . 14 . credit for low - budget british film resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make amend Part 14a of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 so as to provide for the payment of credit in respect of expenditure by company on the production of film which have a budget not exceed a specified maximum ana which have a specified connection to the United Kingdom . 15 . theatre tax credit Resolved , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make take effect in a future year increase the rate specify in section 1217k ( 4 ) ( a ) and ( b ) of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 to 45 % and 40 % respectively . 16 . orchestra tax credit Resolved , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make take effect in a future year increase the rate specify in section 1217rg ( 4 ) of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 to 45 % . 17 . museum and gallery exhibition tax credit Resolved , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) — ( a ) provision may be make omit paragraph ( c ) of section 1218zcg ( 1 ) of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 ( date before which qualifying expenditure must be incur ) , and ( b ) provision may be make take effect in a future year increase the rate specify in section 1218zch ( 4 ) ( a ) and ( b ) of that Act to 45 % and 40 % respectively . 18 . energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy ( energy security investment mechanism ) resolve , that provision may be make for the energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy to cease to apply if the average price of oil and gas over a specify period be at or below the average of those price over the period of 20 year end with 31 December 2022 . 19 . collective investment scheme ( unauthorised co - ownership scheme ) resolve , that provision may be make conferring power on the Treasury to make regulation apply any provision make in connection with authorised co - ownership scheme so that it apply ( with or without modification ) in connection with unauthorised co - ownership scheme which meet specify condition . 20 . economic crime ( anti - money laundering ) levy ( amount of charge ) resolve , that provision may be make amend section 54 ( 2 ) ( c ) of the Finance Act 2022 ( amount of charge in case of person whose UK revenue be very large ) by substitute " £ 500 , 000 " for " £ 250 , 000 " . 21 . transfer of asset abroad ( closely - hold company ) resolve , that provision may be make amend chapter 2 of Part 13 of the Income Tax Act 200 / to deal with case where asset be transfer by closely - hold company . 22 . value add tax ( late payment interest and repayment interest ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) in Part 2 of schedule 54a to the Finance Act 2009 ( further provision as to late payment interest and repayment interest ) — ( a ) in paragraph 5 ( interpretation ) omit the definition of " vat credit " , ( b ) in paragraph 7 ( condition for recovery of certain amount of repayment interest ) , in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , for " on a vat credit " substitute " in respect of an amount that is , or relate to , value add tax " , and ( c ) in paragraph 8 ( common period rule for value add tax ) — ( i ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , for paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) substitute — " ( a ) an amount ( " the overdue payment " ) that is , or relate to , value add tax — ( i ) be due and payable by the person , and ( ii ) carry late payment interest , and ( b ) an amount ( " the relevant amount " ) that is , or relate to , value add tax — ( i ) be payable to the person , and ( ii ) carry repayment interest . " , ( ii ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " during " substitute " in respect of " , ( iii ) in paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) of that sub - paragraph , for " vat credit " , in each place it occur , substitute " relevant amount " , and ( iv ) after sub - paragraph ( 3 ) insert — " ( 4 ) an amount of repayment interest that — ( a ) have be pay to a person , but ( b ) as a result of sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( b ) , ought not to have be pay , may be recover from the person as if it be late payment interest . " ( 2 ) the amendment make by this Resolution come into force on 6 March 2024 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 23 . value add tax ( other minor amendment ) resolve , that provision may be make amend — ( a ) section 35 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 ( refund of vat to person construct certain building ) in relation to the evidence for claim for refund of value add tax , ( b ) section 50 of that Act ( terminal market ) so as to clarify the power of the Treasury under that section , and ( c ) schedule 54a to the Finance Act 2009 ( late payment interest and repayment interest ) so as to give effect to the amendment make by the precede Resolution in relation to time before 6 March 2024 . 24 . collective money purchase scheme resolve , that provision may be make about the treatment under Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 of — ( a ) sum or asset transfer from a collective money purchase scheme in the course of its wind up , and ( b ) benefit provide from sum or asset transfer as mention in paragraph ( a ) . 25 . incidental or consequential provision resolve , that provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make which be incidental to , or consequential on , provision authorise by any other Resolution . Finance Bill : Money King ' s recommendation signify . resolve , that , for the purpose of any Act of the present Session relate to finance , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur by the Commissioners for his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs or the Secretary of State which be attributable to provision make for credit to company in respect of expenditure on the production of film which have a budget not exceed a specify maximum and which have a specify connection to the United Kingdom . order , that a Bill be bring in upon the foregoing resolution ; that the Chairman of Ways and Means , the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Laura Trott , Gareth Davies , Bim Afolami and Nigel Huddleston do prepare and bring it in . Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill Presentation and First read Nigel Huddleston accordingly present a Bill to make provision in connection with finance . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 179 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 179 - en ) . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be a big believer in honesty , and that I should correct my mistake should I make one . in yesterday ' s Budget debate I say that 222 , 000 family be affect by the two - child limit . I fail to read my own handwriting properly — the House of Commons Library briefing confirm that as of April 2023 , 422 , 000 family be affect by the two - child limit . could you advise I if it be possible for I to correct the record ? the hon . Lady will appreciate that that be not a strictly a matter for the Chair , but it be now a matter of record , and she can therefore take it that the record have be set straight . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft Representation of the People ( Variation of Election Expenses and Exclusions ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 29 January , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Immigration that the draft General Aviation ( Persons on Board , Flight Information and Civil Penalties ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 28 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Energy that the draft Energy Bills Discount Scheme ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 February , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Public Procurement that the draft Single Source Contract ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Police that the draft South Yorkshire Mayoral Combined Authority ( Election of Mayor and Transfer of Police and Crime Commissioner Functions ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 February , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Prisons that the draft Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( suitability for Fixed Term Recall ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 February , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present this petition , owe to the Budget fail to provide for any allocation of money to those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . the final compensation recommendation be make by Sir Brian Langstaff , the chair of the infected blood public inquiry , in April 2023 . this House vote in December 2023 to establish a body to pay compensation , as an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill . with two victim of the scandal die on average every week , justice delay be justice deny . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Kingston Upon Hull North , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P002923 ] Inclusive PPE Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) there have be significant development in both the design and use of personal protective equipment over the last few decade . UK workplace be undoubtably safe as a result . the Personal Protective Equipment at Work Regulations 1992 , now amend to the Personal Protective Equipment at Work Regulations ( Amendment ) 2022 , be an important step forward . they place a duty on every employer in Great Britain to ensure that suitable PPE be provide to employee who may be expose to a risk to their health or safety while at work . regulation 4 ( 3 ) state that personal protective equipment shall not be suitable unless : " ( b ) it take account of ergonomic requirement and the state of health of the person or person who may wear it ; ( c ) it be capable of fit the wearer correctly , if necessary , after adjustment within the range for which it be design " . however , despite be revise seven time since come into force , the regulation do not make specific mention of woman , who I hardly need to remind the Minister comprise half the population , or to other with protect characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 . that omission continue to have significant , real - world consequence . the world be finally wake up to the fact that woman be not just small man , whether that be in the design of crash test dummy or in the creation only three year ago of the first anatomically accurate female 3d physiological model for medical student . PPE need to be design with the female anatomy in mind . that also apply to the need of other who be not cater for by a typical male body pattern . I commend the hon . Lady for raise this issue ; I speak to she about it before the debate . it be so important for everyone to have access to PPE that fit correctly depend on the industry in which they work , include the female construction worker who the hon . Lady have refer to . back home , I have be contact by constituent about the provision of PPE for pregnant woman who be still work towards the end of their pregnancy . should not more consideration be give to ensure that they have correctly fitting PPE , as they be more at risk from hazard and other safety concern in the workplace ? let we do it right for they . I completely agree . that be exactly what the debate be about — ensure that everyone be safe while at work . in September last year , the National Association of Women in Construction Yorkshire publish a research report on woman ' s PPE in the construction industry . I pay tribute to its author , Katy Robinson . not only be she a resident of my area , but she inspire the speech that I be make tonight . she be also the campaign manager of NAWIC Yorkshire , a voluntary role that she undertake outside work . she tell I that most PPE distributor do stock woman ' s PPE , but the issue sometimes lie with employer , despite such PPE be readily available on the market . her study find that 59 . 6 % of employer do not provide woman - specific PPE , which result in woman wear PPE design for man and lead to issue relate to ill - fit PPE . Ill - fit PPE be find to cause a range of health and safety issue , include increase slip , trip and fall , an increase risk of entanglement , a limited range of motion , decrease dexterity from glove , and impair vision from safety glass . worryingly , 42 % of woman report experience relate to ill - fit PPE which have have an impact on their career . long - term health problem include plantar fasciitis , Morton ' s neuroma and tendinitis from poorly - fit safety boot , and injury from suspension trauma and circulation damage as a result of ill - fit harness . accord to other study , 40 % of woman have report experience an injury or incident that they identify as be relate to PPE , 32 % have have to make alteration or adjustment to PPE to make it fit , 77 % have be expose to danger because of ill - fit PPE , and 57 % have find that their PPE sometimes or significantly hamper their work . every study report that the majority of PPE be design for man , and be base on outdated information and measurement . it could be argue that that be due to a historical lack of woman in some sector of industry and that those sector just need some time to " catch up " , but there be also issue involve ill - fit PPE in female - dominate industry such as healthcare , where it become a headline issue during the covid - 19 pandemic . Inclusive PPE be define as personal protective equipment that take into consideration the user ' s protect characteristic , and momentum for change be build . Katy Robinson , who I mention early , found the PPE Campaign with the aim of address " the widespread inequality in PPE provision and design among minority group across the construction industry and beyond " . the Chartered Institute of Building have launch a " PPE that fit " campaign to drive awareness of the way in which ill - fit PPE be affect health and safety on site while also hamper the industry ' s ability to attract and retain a more diverse workforce . the Considerate Constructors Scheme , which help the construction industry to raise its standard through construction site accreditation , have mandate the requirement of woman - specific PPE . SHP be run a campaign call " protection for everyone " to raise awareness of the issue , and locally , East Riding of Yorkshire Council vote to urge the UK Government to enforce inclusive PPE in industry involve science , technology , engineering and mathematic . Arco , which be base in my constituency and a lead UK provider of health and safety product and PPE , recognise the need for change and fully support the campaign to improve inclusivity . I understand that this campaigning be indeed lead to change and that an increase in woman ' s PPE provision have be see since it begin , but worker deserve a guarantee that they will be protect . the Minister may say that the issue I have highlight be cover by the regulation , but there be overwhelming evidence that as they stand , the regulation be not effective in ensure that large number of worker be receive the protection they need . reference to the Equality Act 2010 can be find in guidance surround the regulation , but it be not statutory . well - fit PPE should not be see as good practice ; it should be the minimum standard . an increase number of manufacturer be create product design for woman , include maternity PPE , and those that do typically sell they at the same cost point as man ' s . unfortunately , some manufacturer still only make man ' s PPE , mean that they can sell they at a cheap cost point , as there be more demand for it and they make a loss on woman ' s PPE — hence the assumption that man ' s PPE be cheap than woman ' s . this give a competitive advantage to company that choose to ignore 50 % of the population and all other with protect characteristic who suffer from the impact of ill - fit PPE . I believe that specific reference to the Equality Act 2010 be a significant omission from the regulation and should be address . I acknowledge that the regulation have be regularly revise since they be draft , and I note that it be rightly see fit in the Personal Protective Equipment at Work ( Amendment ) Regulations 2022 to change the pronoun from he / his to they / theirs to be more inclusive , but the regulation do not address the issue that be materially affect thousand of people ' s life and career . I urge the Minister to return to they and make the necessary change . may I start by congratulate the hon . Lady on secure such an important and interesting Adjournment debate ? I would like to stress from the outset that the Government entirely support her assertion that personal protective equipment issue to worker should be inclusive and , of course , meet individual need . the Government recognise that when we refer to " inclusive " in this context , it be not just a matter of gender , because the requirement cover disability , race and religion , which really emphasise the personal in PPE . I understand the hon . Lady ' s point about provider wake up to the anatomy of woman , and I fully agree . the availability of Mary Earps ' s World cup jersey be probably a bit too late for the hon . Lady ' s like , mine and many other ' as well . I congratulate Katy Robinson on her work with woman in construction . in my time look after the Health and Safety Executive , it have be a delight to hear woman ' s voice , and Katy be obviously a lead light . it be the legal duty of employer to protect their worker from risk to their health and safety , and they must consider way in which they can remove or reduce risk by any other mean before PPE be provide . PPE include high - visibility clothing , safety helmet , glove , footwear and hear protection . it should be regard as the last resort to protect against risk to health and safety , but a rounded approach must be take . for many worker , PPE be issue by employer to ensure that they be protect against risk that can not otherwise be control , as I have outline . PPE may be need to reduce the risk of ill health and injury from hazard , such as breathe in dust or fume , be splash with corrosive liquid that may damage eye or skin , and excessive noise , which may affect hear and create hearing loss . I turn to a couple of point make by the hon . Lady , and I will try to reassure she . I understand that the relevant trade association , the British Safety Industry Federation , be initiate a project with the British Standards Institution to look at whether industry standard can be well frame to ensure that inclusive PPE be well design . manufacturer make up a significant proportion of those who sit on the relevant british standard technical committee for product of this type and , rightly , they be capable of influence the range of what can be supply . the hon . Lady talk about the Equality Act and set out a number of protect characteristic that prevent worker from be discriminate against in the regulation . the protect characteristic cover age , disability , gender reassignment , marriage and civil partnership , pregnancy , maternity , race , religion or belief , and sex and sexual orientation . on the HSE ' s comprehensive guidance , I note the hon . Lady ' s ask for statutory guidance , and I be sure that it will be listen to her query . I be sure that if there be anything I can not cover in the debate , we will be write to she about it . the HSE guidance already clarify the position relate to worker with protect characteristic and state that PPE provide must take this into account . there be no exemption from the regulation for disabled people , and suitable PPE must be wear and provide if the risk assessment indicate that it be require . I hope that that reassure the House . it be the responsibility of the employer to ensure that suitable personal protective equipment be provide to worker who may be expose to a risk to their health and safety , to increase the likelihood of acceptance of and happiness with that equipment . as the hon . Lady point , out ill - fit boot present trip hazard and overall with sleeve or cuff that be too long increase the risk of entrapment in move machinery , so it be important that PPE fit well . she mention the need for suitability to anatomy as well . the design of PPE be regulate by UK regulation 2016 / 425 on personal protective equipment . Annex II of the regulation set out the essential health and safety requirement that PPE must meet . this include requirement that cover comfort and effectiveness . the hon . Lady also point out an issue with the lack of employer awareness when procure item , rather than those item not be available , so tonight ' s debate be a welcome opportunity for we to spell out what employer should be do . let I turn to the exist requirement in the Personal Protective Equipment at Work Regulations 1992 . where PPE be necessary , the regulation already state that the ergonomic requirement and the health condition of the person wear it must be take into account . it be clearly important that the wearer of the PPE should always be involve in the process , to increase the likelihood of the acceptance and effectiveness of the equipment . for any employee listen , that be equally important for they to know . in this context , " suitable " mean that it be appropriate for the risk involve and , more importantly , take into account ergonomic requirement , the health condition of the wearer , and the fact that it be capable of fit the wearer correctly without far increase the risk . those regulation be there , and I reiterate that to the House this evening . the Health and Safety Executive and local authority be responsible for regulate and enforce the provision of PPE at work . those authority will take robust action if they receive report of employer who do not ensure that PPE that meet the requirement be issue to worker . they have also publish a range of readily available guidance to assist employer to comply with their obligation . this highlight the fact that " one size fit all " be unacceptable . I buy my own protective boot for site visit so that I know they will fit correctly . on that point , I can give the Minister a concrete example . I visit certain place with a member of my office staff who have size 3 foot , and she be unable to find any boot that fit she . that be a regular occurrence when we go on these visit . People assume that everyone have large foot . the hon . Lady make an excellent point . my foot be hardly the size of Kylie Minogue ' s , sadly , but sometimes those boot be just too big , aren ' t they ? the Equality Act 2010 set out a number of protect characteristic , include gender , race , disability and religion . if a risk assessment undertake by the employer indicate that it be necessary , PPE should be suitable and sufficient , and of course those protect characteristic must be take into account . those requirement under the regulation be enforceable . it be right to remind people that there be suitable guidance , both for industry and inspector . take a slight step back from the PPE issue , and turn to product safety and ensure safety through design and manufacture , the Office for Product Safety and Standards be responsible for the legislative and standard framework that govern PPE , which be also regulate by regulation 2016 / 425 . Annex II set out the essential health and safety requirement that PPE must meet , which include comfort and effectiveness : " PPE must be design and manufacture in such a way as to facilitate its correct positioning on the user and to remain in place for the foreseeable period of use , bear in mind ambient factor , the action to be carry out and the posture to be adopt . for this purpose , it must be possible to adapt the PPE to fit the morphology of the user by all appropriate mean , such as adequate adjustment and attachment system or the provision of an adequate range of size . " I be sure the hon . Lady be point to that this evening . support these regulation be a suite of technical standard . manufacturer make up a significant proportion of the member of the technical committee for these product , and they have the ability to influence the range that be supply in this way . again , this debate be a timely reminder that these regulation do not mandate manufacturer to produce PPE for specific user . however , the Government support any initiative — we have hear about some tonight — that improve design to meet the need of the full range of user . I understand from the OPSS that gender - responsive standard have be raise by industry group , and that the British Safety Industry Federation be initiate a project with the British Standards Institution to look at how those industry standard can be well frame to ensure that PPE in particular be design well and more appealingly for woman . although the development of standard can take year , the law be clear about what be require . PPE must be suitable for the task and for each individual . I take time to reflect on the issue in preparation for this debate , and I be aware of the significant step that have recently be take by manufacturer . it seem clear that they be work hard than ever to increase their understanding of their customer ' need , which have partly drive an increase in the range available , but tonight prove the point . I have be make aware of at least one article that suggest the perceive lack of available inclusive PPE be more about employer ' lack of awareness in procure the right item than about item not be readily available . in addition , a recent article in New Civil Engineer highlight the PPE campaign that be work to raise awareness and to address inequality in PPE provision and design for minority group . there be a focus on woman , but it also cover wide minority group . one success highlight in the article , relate to PPE and inclusivity , be that after a procurement team be alert to the fact that item be available , those item be subsequently include in the internal procurement catalogue . again , the issue be about awareness . although I be touch on success in recent work , there be clearly more to be do . that be what tonight ' s debate be about and why the Health and Safety Executive have lean its support to the " protection for everyone " campaign launch by Safety and Health Practitioner . the campaign aim to raise awareness about the effect of ill - fit PPE and contain story from those who have face challenge in get suitable PPE . the Government wholeheartedly support this message and we look forward to see how it progress the debate have provide a welcome opportunity to explore PPE . as I say to the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle , if there be further point that be relevant , I will respond to she in writing . I hope this reassure hon . member in the Chamber this evening , include the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — we would expect nothing less — and other , that the legislation on PPE be appropriate . the Government be commit to raise awareness and , as some hon . member mention , encourage more manufacturer to provide PPE that be fully inclusive for their customer and their user . question put and agree to . House adjourn .