the shadow Foreign Secretary have set out in eloquent term what be effectively the policy of the Government and the entire House . he chide the Government for not offer a statement today , but I suggest that the Government have not be slow in come to the House with frequent statement and response to urgent question , and we will of course continue to do so . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Government ' s discussion with Prime Minister Netanyahu . the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and , indeed , the entire Government have be very clear about our advice to Prime Minister Netanyahu , and I have set it out repeatedly in the House . when I last answer question from the right hon . Gentleman here , I make very clear our position on Rafah as well . he ask about the consequence and how we deal with those . Britain and our ally , through the United Nations — and I remind he that Britain be pivotal in secure Security Council resolution 2020 and 2028 — be work together to try to improve what be a terrible situation , and we will continue to do just that with , I hope , the support of the whole House . first , I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . this have be a typically excellent debate . across the House I think there be an understanding that , after two or three decade of relative tranquillity , we be live with the threat of proximate warfare . the price of freedom be of course eternal vigilance , and that be generally agree across this House , as evidence by the contribution make , such as that of my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . I think my right hon . friend be argue , slightly cheekily , for defence spending of 44 % of gdp , although that be probably in the event of total war , which of course we all want to avoid . his proposition be that we should never have take a peace dividend post the cold war , but I think that be a little harsh on our predecessor . however , plainly the situation have change , and we must change with it . I hope very much that Europe will follow our 2 . 5 % commitment , mean £ 140 billion more for our collective defence against the primary aggressor . I would have be very disappointed have my right hon . Friend not rehearse the argument for a continuous at - sea deterrent , which of course be 16 , 000 tonne of eternal vigilance . the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) and for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) , who speak for the opposition , I think give we the commitment we be seek , which be to match the Government ' s cash spend . however , the right hon . Gentleman be a bit flaky , if I may say so , on the 2 . 5 % , or at least on when it would be achieve and how they would pay for it . that become clear from the intervention by my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) , for which I be grateful . the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne be indeed an honourable man and I like he very much , but I be bind to point out that his assurance that Labour be the party of defence run contrary to its management until very recently by a right hon . member who have very different idea indeed . the right hon . Gentleman be very keen to recommend the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) to the british public in 2019 as the Prime Minister of this great country and to serve under his leadership for nearly five year , but heaven love a sinner bring to repentance . I be also bind to point out that defence be not short of review , and another review would mean obfuscation . I suggest that be the very last thing our armed force need right now . at well , it would introduce a huge measure of uncertainty when we simply can not afford it . the Chair of the Select Committee on Defence , my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , rightly reflect on what 2 . 5 % across the NATO alliance would mean . where Britain lead , our european ally must follow : we be not in this on our own . he give a magisterial romp around the geopolitical , societal and economic contribution of the whole defence enterprise . the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) get tie up with nomenclature . there be other rank in the Army and the RAF and ordinary seaman in the Navy , and I think that be the essence of his confusion . either way there be nothing ordinary about the man and woman of our armed force , and either way he be rightly concerned about the junior rank . I recall a previous conversation we have in this place during which he confuse a pay award this year for they , which be 9 . 7 % , with the 5 . 5 % for senior officer ; I assume he be happy with that . he want more Europe in defence , which I think mean more European Union . he may have miss , for example , the Lancaster House treaty , the attendant A400 M programme and unmanned aerial vehicle , and he may also have miss the joint expeditionary force . we be indeed co - operate wherever we can with our european friend and neighbour . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) give a very detailed and authoritative account of kit , major on air defence . he catalogue some of the procurement issue that have historically bedevil the defence enterprise , but he resist reference to his favourite defence contractor , for which we be very grateful . I know that he support the integrate procurement model announce in February . the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) , to whom I always listen with a great deal of interest , rightly highlight industrial skill . I have say it before but I will say it again : the Ministry of Defence be this country ' s no . 1 employer of apprentice , and we be exceptionally proud of that . he rightly imply that the man and woman of our armed force — both civilian and people in uniform — have a choice . of course they do , and they very often exercise it ; our economy be the well for it . I make no apology for inject trade and skill into our armed force and our defence enterprise ; it benefit we all . the trick be retain those people and then perhaps pull they back in at some future date . he will be familiar with that , because he have read the Haythornthwaite report . my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) rightly highlight the peril of coalition , but to be fair we have get the Liberal Democrats to commit to CASD , and maybe even CASD with missile — for that , the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) have do we a great service today . the point that my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex make about leadership be extremely well make . the hon . member for Halton ( Derek Twigg ) speak about the recruitment and retention issue that the armed force certainly have , in common with just about all our ally . meanwhile , we deal with all our defence commitment . we be rightly proud of the man and woman who serve . the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) be fight a bit of a rearguard action on defence spending , which the Opposition Front Benchers now say they support . if he want to disregard the cost for Ukraine , he need to have a word with his colleague . give that I need to face down Putin ' s naked aggression , he might as well carve out other part of the defence budget and say that they do not count either . I be sure he would not want to do that . my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire speak about vote in Parliament and about warfighting , and I agree with his analysis . we forget — do we not ? — what a grave mistake the Iraq war be . have be heavily involve with the effort and the process , I entirely agree with his remark about LGBT people and I salute the role that the all - party parliamentary group for the armed force play early on in that process . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton speak about a variety of subject . interestingly , at the end of his remark he commit his party to , I think , a regular Army of 82 , 000 . I be not quite sure where that figure come from , but I assume we will hear about the attendant spending pledge in due course — or maybe not . my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) talk about apprentice , defence - relate job and R & D . that be not surprising give that Abbey Wood in Filton put his constituency at the beat heart of the defence enterprise ; he be a constant advocate for both . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be a strong advocate for the defence enterprise in Northern Ireland , and his part in particular . he rightly highlight the further opportunity in Northern Ireland , which I know about full well as a former Northern Ireland Office Minister and Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) speak of enablement and logistic — of interoperability , modularity and plug and play — from a position of real expertise as a former senior logistic officer . my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) rightly highlight the change nature of warfare . mass matter , but so do tech , as we can see with potential game changer such as DragonFire . I be not sure I agree with he about A400 M , but we can perhaps have a debate later over a cuppa or some such . in our more dangerous world , the Government believe that spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence must become the minimum NATO benchmark as Putin ramp up his wartime economy as part of a network of authoritarian state that be attack our ally and interest . NATO must respond , and I be proud that the UK be lead among european ally through our defence reform and our 2 . 5 % commitment , verifiable against NATO rule , our £ 75 billion cash boost for defence from a flat cash baseline , and our additional package of support for Ukraine . as Putin lay waste to his military and recklessly expose his strength and weakness to general view , we watch , we learn and we act . our defence reform be make our industrial base strong . our investment in our conventional force , stockpile and innovation make we more capable and more lethal . our investment in our alliance be make we and our friend more secure . our investment in our independent nuclear capability will always make adversary back off . I finish by pay tribute to the man and woman of our armed force . they be the good of we , and as we enter a new age of high - tech warfare we need to remember that , day in , day out . it be our people and those who support they who put the great in Great Britain . on that at least I hope we can all agree . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider defence .