prayer the First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) . Alex McIntyre Deirdre Costigan Andrew Lewin Rushanara Ali Jim Allister Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Calvin Bailey Alex Ballinger Danny Beales Rachel Blake Chris Bryant Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Christopher Chope Ben Coleman Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Samantha Dixon Peter Dowd Alex Easton Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Allison Gardner Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Emma Hardy Rupa Huq Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gen Kitchen Peter Lamb Carla Lockhart Gagan Mohindra Simon Opher Rebecca Paul Joe Powell Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon David Simmonds Jeff Smith will Stone Robin Swann Richard Tice Matt Vickers Christian Wakeford Sammy Wilson Keir Mather Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 1 , Noes 49 . question accordingly negative . European Union ( Withdrawal Arrangements ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I begin by thank my co - sponsor for their help and support with the Bill : the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , and the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) , for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) , for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) , for North Down ( Alex Easton ) , for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) . I also wish to thank my own staff for their assistance during recent week , particularly Dr Dan Boucher , who have work tirelessly on these matter . I record my appreciation of international lawyer Mr Barney Reynolds for his help and guidance on many of the technical issue . since I come to this House in July , I have lose count of the number of time I have hear affirmation from the Government Benches about " fix the foundation . " well , there be one foundation that most assuredly need fix , and that be the foundation that flow from the inequitable post - brexit arrangement as they affect my part of the United Kingdom : Northern Ireland . the foundation of this United Kingdom have be disturb and dislodge by those arrangement . the primary purpose of this Bill be , yes , to fix those foundation — to restore equilibrium to Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom and to our relationship as a nation with the EU . in fix the foundation , we need to reflect on the most basic tenet of democracy , namely that a people should be govern by law make by those they elect to make those law . that be so fundamental that we all presumably almost take it for grant , yet tragically and with great constitutional detriment , that be no long the position in respect of Northern Ireland . there be 300 area of law where the right to make law be not exercise in this House or in the devolved assembly , but have be surrender to the European Parliament . that be such a momentous thing that it should cause anyone who value the fundamental of democracy — who cling to the principle that a people be entitle to elect those who govern they and make their law — to be ashamed that this situation have evolve . it be not just a democratic deficit , but undemocratic plundering of the Northern Ireland statute book by the EU . these be not incidental matter or trifle issue . they be the law that deal with custom , general trade , good , motor vehicle , cosmetic , toy , electrical equipment , textile , medical device , pesticide , waste , and food hygiene , ingredient and marketing . they cover 13 different area of law deal with food alone . they be the law that deal with disease and with animal — with the breeding , welfare and identification of animal . thirty - four different diktat of the EU govern all of that . I appreciate the hon . and learn Gentleman ' s passion . he also need to be honest with this Chamber that the law he be talk about include human right law , and the basic , equal treatment of everybody in Northern Ireland . his legislation would rip up the very foundation of democracy , which be that everybody be equal . do he not need to be honest with this Chamber that the 300 law he be talk about include equal human right ? I will be absolutely honest with this Chamber , and to be absolutely honest with this Chamber , the hon . Lady be not address the issue as it emerge . I will deal with the impact of article 2 of the protocol . I want nothing more for my constituent than the same right that the hon . Lady ' s constituent have , be they human right , the right to make the law of our land , or any other right . I ask for no privilege , but I certainly do not accept any detriment . that be the point here . the hon . and learn Gentleman and I share a common concern , then . my constituent in Walthamstow do benefit from the protection of their human right , because we be still member of the European Court of Human Rights . indeed , equal access to those human right be what the Good Friday agreement be base on . the effect that his legislation would have on article 2 of the Windsor framework would breach those principle , so if it go through , would there not be less of a connection between constituent here in England and constituent in Northern Ireland ? I respectfully and utterly disagree . as part of the United Kingdom , we be all subject to the Human Rights Act 1998 . the Human Rights Act be what fundamentally give the hon . Lady ' s constituent the right that they have in that sphere , and she would lose nothing by lose the control of the foreign court of the European Court of Justice . I be list example of the 300 area of law that have be purloin by the EU in its sovereignty grab over Northern Ireland . I mention the 34 different diktat on animal . we have even reach the point in Northern Ireland where , under these arrangement , our cattle can no long bear a UK ear tag . they now have to have a specify European Union ear tag . that be but an illustration of how absurd and utterly wrong and offensive it be that the right to make the law in our own country have be surrender to a foreign power . all those 300 area be set forth in annex 2 of the protocol or , as it be now more kindly call , the Windsor framework . look at annex 2 , look at the hundred of law — 289 of they which now have be remove from the ambit of the lawmaking of this House or the lawmaking of the Northern Ireland Assembly . it be amazing to look at the volume of law : there be 70 page contain not the detail of the law but simply the heading of the law . that show the extent to which the EU have its foot in the door in Northern Ireland . absolutely . I print they off a couple of month ago and I be stagger by how voluminous just the title be . it be not just 300 law ; it be 300 area of law which have be surrender . I have a challenge for every Member of this House who come from a different part of the United Kingdom from Northern Ireland — those who represent GB constituency . my challenge to they today be : " how would you feel if in 300 area of law affect your constituent , you have no input — you couldn ' t change , you couldn ' t move an amendment — because those law be make colonial - like in a foreign Parliament by those elect not by your constituent but by the constituent of 27 other country ? " how , I ask this House , could any democrat , any representative MP , say that be right and correct ? I thank the hon . and learn Gentleman for introduce this debate . he be talk about the democratic deficit ; be it not right that the Northern Ireland Assembly will be debate consent to the procedure on 10 December , and be we not pre - empte that debate by hold this debate here now ? I will be deal with that , but the hon . Member invite we to think that it be appropriate that those elect to the Northern Ireland Assembly should turn up on Tuesday of next week and vote to disenfranchise their own constituent — to say , " you , our constituent in Northern Ireland who send we to the Northern Ireland Assembly , we be not worthy to make your law . we must bow to the superiority of a foreign Parliament , and we must surrender to that foreign Parliament the right to make these law in hundred of area of law . " the hon . Member might think that be admirable and be the very epitome of democracy , but I happen to think it be the very opposite . the Bill would create a democratic deficit that the hon . and learn Member have already refer to , and the Windsor framework have address that with the Stormont brake , which allow the Northern Ireland Assembly to review all law apply . I respectfully suggest that the hon . member read a little deep . she will discover that the Stormont brake be farcical . the previous Member for North Antrim in this House aptly say it be like someone sit in the back seat of a car and say to the driver , " would you ever be so kind as to pull the brake ? " that be what the Stormont brake be : a request to the British Government to pause the imposition of an EU law . the british Government do not have to do it — there have be one request to date and nothing have happen about it — so it really be a fiction , and an insult to the democratic mandate of the people of Northern Ireland . to continue the analogy , the Stormont brake have be describe to I as rusty and not attach to anything . and if we can pull it , nothing happen . that be the value of it . the most limp excuse that I hear for this plundering of the Northern Ireland statute book by the EU be , " oh , international law require this . " sorry ? what sort of international law say that a state must self - harm by disenfranchise its own voter ? there be no such international law . I will deal later with the fundamental basic of international law and how they have be distort in justification of these arrangement . I commend the hon . and learn Gentleman for bring forward the Bill . it be important for we in Northern Ireland and for this whole great United Kingdom to look at this . our constituent must not lose their place in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland without consent , by stealth , but that be what be happen . Brexit be a vote for all of we to leave Europe , not for Northern Ireland to leave the UK , and this outstanding matter be detrimental to our economy , peace and stability . do he agree that the Bill must be support by all in the House if there be to be justice for all in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? the hon . member touch on a fundamental . in June 2016 , we all have the opportunity to vote on Brexit . some like it and some do not , but the question on the ballot paper be : " do you want the United Kingdom to leave the EU ? " the question be not : " would you like GB to leave the EU , and leave Northern Ireland behind ? " but that be what we get . that be a fundamental denial of Brexit to my constituent in Northern Ireland . that be the source of the disparity , and undemocratic consequence have flow from that . I mention the 300 area of law . they be all recite in annex 2 of the protocol . it be no surprise that the first area of law cover in annex 2 be custom , and that the first law put on the people of Northern Ireland be the EU ' s custom code : EU regulation 952 / 2013 . what do the customs code do ? it operate on the basis that GB — those who get Brexit — be no long a part of the EU ; it be , in the word of the custom code , a " third country " , or in common parlance a foreign country , whereas Northern Ireland be treat as EU territory . therefore we have this absurd insult under the custom code that good come to Northern Ireland — a suppose part of the United Kingdom — from GB must be subject to all the rigour of declaration , check and reporting of datum recording . why ? because GB be treat as a foreign country when it send its good , particularly its raw material , to my part of the United Kingdom . that be the iniquitous effect of the Union partition and divide the custom code and protocol . some member seem to find that amusing . if hon . member believe at all in the United Kingdom — maybe some do not — they should be as offend as I be by the fact that move good from one part of the United Kingdom to another involve an international custom border under the control of foreign law . how could any MP — amuse or otherwise — think that be right and equitable ? perhaps the hon . and learn Member would like to reflect on a proposal that I support — a veterinary agreement with the EU to reduce the check on good move between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . that would have to honour our commitment under the Windsor framework , if it be to come into effect . the hon . Member may wish to see the whole of the United Kingdom suck back into the EU . I want to see my part of the United Kingdom enable to follow the rest of the United Kingdom properly out of the EU . all this be for an international border over which the trade flow be infinitesimally small . we have have diversion of trade since , but in 2020 , 0 . 003 % of all the good go into , and trade with , the EU pass from Northern Ireland to the Republic of Ireland . yet for that , we be build border post at the cost of ten of million of pound , in the constituency of the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , in Larne , Belfast and Warrenpoint . as I will set out , there be another way . the hon . and learn Gentleman be talk with great passion about an issue that be really important to he , and that he have raise many time in this House . he will accept that 2020 be not a representative year , because of the pandemic . also , although it might be a small part of trade within the EU , that trade with the wide EU be probably very important to trader in Northern Ireland , include those in his constituency . many business in my constituency be still struggle to come to term with Brexit , and they envy the trading relationship that Northern Ireland have with the EU . he must recognise that . I will deal with that more fully , but for now I will say that the trade that matter the most to Northern Ireland be with our big partner , Great Britain . that be the source of the overwhelming majority of our raw material that keep our manufacturing industry go , but as a result of this pernicious Irish sea border , that trade be fetter . all raw material have to pass through the full ambit of an international custom border . if the hon . member ' s constituent envy the position of my constituent , they really need to reassess the situation , as do he . it be nothing to envy . I thank the hon . and learn Member for introduce the Bill . at Prime Minister ' s question , I ask the Prime Minister about the general product safety regulation that will come into effect next Friday , which will force supplier in constituency across England , Scotland and Wales to increase bureaucracy and cost if they still want to supply Northern Ireland consumer and producer . do he agree that it be absurd that we be put additional cost on our internal UK market to facilitate the requirement of the European Union ? I agree absolutely . we already see the consequence . [ interruption . ] again , this seem to be a matter of humour to some on the Government Benches . increasingly , we see that GB supplier simply stop supply , because they will not put themselves through the rigour of the custom code , documentary declaration and everything else . it be very difficult for anyone try to do business in Northern Ireland . in the main , small and medium - sized business do not have the resource to employ the extra 10 staff that a big business might to meet the requirement of cross the Irish sea border . small supplier do not have the necessary resource , so they simply stop supply Northern Ireland . that feed the continue diversion of trade . a report come out two day ago suggest that Northern Ireland ' s economy be go to be strong than that of the rest of the UK . do that not have something to do with the Windsor framework , which be allow business to invest in Northern Ireland ? surely that be a good thing . the hon . member might be interested to know that the growth area of the Northern Ireland economy be the service sector , which be the one sector not include by the protocol — it be outside all that . the one sector that be outside the protocol be increase . there be a clear message in that . I have not intend to intervene on the hon . and learn Gentleman , but on that point , Invest Northern Ireland , the body charge with encourage foreign direct investment into Northern Ireland and with grow our economy , can not point to one example of business investing in Northern Ireland as a direct result of the Windsor framework . absolutely . I will return to that . will the hon . and learn Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress . I will be as generous as I can with intervention , because I know that Government member want to talk this Bill out — and , because they be not shame - face enough , some of they want to vote against the principle of the Bill , but there we go . the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) make an important point . the reason why that point have traction be find in EU regulation 625 from 2017 . it determine that Northern Ireland be , accord to our court , for these purpose , EU territory . we have have several legal case in Northern Ireland , such as the Rooney case . the judgment in that case establish that the EU official control on food and feed law , animal health , plant health and so on have to be in place because our High Court have rule that under that applicable EU law , for regulatory and custom purpose , the entry point to the EU be the Northern Ireland port . could it be any more Union - dismantle than that ? under EU law , to which we be subject , the entry point to the EU be the port of Northern Ireland . Mr Justice Colton say that EU regulation must be interpret accord to EU law as a result of article 4 . 1 of the withdrawal agreement and article 13 . 2 of the protocol , which , he go on to say , have domestic effect in the United Kingdom under section 7a the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 . he say that under the withdrawal agreement it be at Northern Ireland port that EU territory be enter . he go on : " the UK be not to be treat as a unitary state for the purpose of OCR check come from GB into NI . " could it be any more stark that Northern Ireland have be colonise by the EU ? what be a colony ? it be a territory govern by someone else ' s law from a foreign jurisdiction . when 300 area of law — include custom , and include the very definition of Northern Ireland ' s territory in trading term — be govern by foreign EU law , we have create a situation in which , in that context , Northern Ireland be a veritable colony . there be many people in the House — the Government Benches opposite be populate by many of they — who boast of their anti - colonialism . they constantly pride themselves on their anti - colonial heritage . yet here we have a part of this United Kingdom colonise by EU law , to the point that we be tell that when someone enter the port of Northern Ireland , they enter EU territory . I believe the European Union be our ally — it be 27 democracy — and I be concern about some of the language I be hear . the hon . and learn Gentleman talk of colonisation and surrender ; be that the message we want to send to our 27 friend and ally in the European Union ? maybe the hon . member could help I . what would he call take a territory and subject it to someone else ' s law ? what would he call it other than colonisation ? be that not the very essence of what he and his colleague wear as a badge of pride in their anti - colonialism ? be that not what it be in name and in truth ? do the hon . and learn Gentleman remember that in the Brexit negotiation those so - call ally make it clear that the price of Brexit would be Northern Ireland ' s removal from the United Kingdom ? far from be ally , they declare themselves to want to be coloniser . yes , that be the boast of Mr Barnier and his staff : that the price of Brexit would be Northern Ireland — and so it have prove to be . that may be something of indifference , or indeed pride , for some people in this House , but it should be a badge of shame that we allow a part of the United Kingdom to be colonise by the EU , and that we have surrender our right to make our own law . for the record , be it the hon . and learn Gentleman ' s view that the 27 member state of the European Union be not our ally ? at least one Member have make that point , as have another next to he . it be important to have this on the record for the House : do the hon . and learn Gentleman believe the 27 member state of the European Union be ally of the United Kingdom , or not ? I certainly do . the EU have behave not as a friend to Northern Ireland . the EU have behave as a sovereignty grabber in respect of Northern Ireland . that be where it cause , and continue to cause , the offence . if hon . member think it be a good thing to back that up and endorse it , they obviously do not think very much of the territory of Northern Ireland . we be move slightly into the ridiculous ; may I bring we back to the main point ? the purpose of the Bill that the hon . and learn Gentleman have draft be simply to provide a solution for what be currently an unworkable position . I say to Government Members that it be not about 27 nation hate the UK ; ultimately , it be about function . Sir Jonathan Faull , who be the director general of the EU internal market service directorate , end up as director general of the taskforce for strategic issue relate to the UK referendum , and he and his team come to a simple conclusion : the only way to make the situation workable be to have , in essence , what be in the Bill . he have put out a statement today to say exactly that . it be a practical issue , and those who know and understand the difficulty at the time say there be a way to do this , but they be ignore . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . those of we who be look for a solution be supporter of this Bill , because we can not go on as we be . those who think that it be okay to subjugate part of their own territory be oppose to this Bill . they be quite content with the colonisation of part of our territory . in constitutional term , where we have end up be that Northern Ireland be no long a full part of the United Kingdom . why ? it be because we be not our own master in 300 area of law and that a foreign jurisdiction make those law . what do that create ? it create what be call , in constitutional term , a condominium : Northern Ireland be rule in part by UK law and in part by foreign law . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) find that hilarious — sorry , it be not hilarious to be subject to that . I find myself surprised to agree to an extent with the former leader of the Conservative party , the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) : we need to move away from some of the ridiculous , extreme language . there be no reason why the European Union would want to colonise Northern Ireland . be we not talk about a sensible agreement that do not seek to impose sovereignty but instead seek simply to avoid a hard border on the island of Ireland , to safeguard the Good Friday agreement in all its dimension and , at the same time , protect Northern Ireland ' s place in the UK and in the UK internal market ? should we not recognise that and stop use extreme language that do nothing to take the debate sensibly forward ? the whole purpose of this Bill be to restore equilibrium and to get we to a point at which we have a sensible relationship base upon mutual respect , not on the grabbing of the sovereignty , one from the other . that be where we have get to . the hon . member may not like to face up to it , but a whole raft of jurisprudence and lawmaking have be remove from within the reach of this United Kingdom and place within the control of a foreign body , and that be not the basis for a sustainable solution . will the hon . and learn Gentleman give way ? I have give way quite often , so I be go to make some progress . that be why what I regard as the two liberation clause in my Bill , clause five and two , exist . they be the clause that will free the whole United Kingdom , and Northern Ireland in particular , from this malevolent situation in which a huge portion of our law be make not by ourselves but by other . that be very important . I have spend a lot of time in this debate talk about the constitutional import of all this , and that be very important , because it be that which give certainty and assurance to any part of this United Kingdom . however , before I leave that issue , I remind the House that , because of the protocol arrangement , our Supreme Court have to rule that article VI of our act of Union , which guarantee unfettered trade access between and within all part of the United Kingdom , stand in suspension . there can not be a high authority than the Supreme Court to demonstrate that a key component of the very act of Union that make this Union be in suspension , and if the cause of suspension be the protocol or the Windsor framework , then no one who believe in that Union should be sanguine or at ease with that . there be also economic consequence . before Brexit , Northern Ireland have an economy that be very integrated with the rest of the United Kingdom . it have the free , unfettered flow of good one way and the other , as we have and would still have from Birmingham to London or Edinburgh . we have exactly that . the hon . and learn Member mention certainty , and he have just mention the impact on the economy of Northern Ireland . do he agree that bring in a Bill such as this , which would see regulation in Northern Ireland change in potentially just three month , would have a massive impact on business in Northern Ireland ? it would have a huge impact on the economy of Northern Ireland , and it be not what business need right now . I can tell the hon . member that it be exactly what business need . my constituency office be choke , from time to time , with business say , " why be it that I can not get the good I need without all this paperwork and bureaucracy ? " there be many small business in my constituency and elsewhere , such as small engineering business , which rely for their raw material not on huge container come in , but on parcel of bolt and everyday material , six , seven , eight or 12 of which come a week . come early next year , the irish sea border be go to extend to a parcels border , and we be go to have a situation in which those business that rely on the daily arrival of a parcel of some raw material from GB will be put through the red lane of this full - blow international custom border . the hon . Lady may think that that be good for business . it be a death knell for business . that be the problem that we have . the economic consequence be severe . even with the Windsor framework , all our raw material that feed all our manufacturing industry and that come from GB now have to pass through the red lane in a full international custom border . think of that — think of the effect on a business . that be what be stifle , not grow , business . in consequence , we have have trade diversion — of course we have . we have veterinary medicine . in the main , our veterinary medicine come from GB , and always have do , but now we face a cliff edge where , accord to EU diktat , they can no long come because we be subject to the veterinary requirement of the EU , not the United Kingdom . medicine that we have use safely and with no problem for decade be suddenly to be stop . the Government say that they will get a deal — well , let we see it . even the very thought that we have to go cap in hand to a foreign power to say , " please could we have an arrangement where , from within our own country , we could bring our own medicine to another part of our own country ? please could we do that ? " , be so humiliating at a national level and so prejudicial to our farming community . I thank the hon . and learn Member for give way again ; he continue to speak with passion . the issue about medicine be really interesting . I know that he have speak at some length already , but it would be useful if he could outline some of the medicine that will be prohibit and what the alternative to they will be . there be human medicine , and there be veterinary medicine . the vast swathe of veterinary medicine currently stand to be prohibit . as for human medicine , there be some for diabetic that be still subject to difficulty . rise — the hon . Member be the Health Minister in Northern Ireland and know all about that , so I will gladly give way to he . on that point — I see that member be smile ; I be quite concerned about the attitude to the issue of some of those on the other Benches — a serious piece of work have be do with the European Union on the subject of continue the supply of human medicine to Northern Ireland . the challenge be not in the legislation but in the fact that producer and supplier must meet EU requirement for specific Northern Ireland labelling , which make it not worth their while to supply item to Northern Ireland , with the result that some manufacturer be still not do so . the hon . Member know that from experience . I want to make some progress , and to make one point very strongly : the economic consequence be dire for Northern Ireland . we have hear much talk about the fantasy of a dual - access bonanza . we have be tell that Northern Ireland will become the Singapore of the west , that we now have unrivalle access to the UK market and to the EU market — consist of 500 million people — and that everyone should be overwhelm by the fantastic opportunity that this provide . how wrong that have turn out to be , and for one very simple reason , already allude to by the right hon . member for Belfast East . we have hear the suggestion that inward investment will flow into Northern Ireland because of this dual market access , but it have not do so . Invest Northern Ireland have have to admit that there have be no upturn — and why be that ? because any benefit , if there be one , be countermand by the fettering of the trade from Great Britain . a manufacturer wish to set up a business in Northern Ireland in order to have access to the EU market be bind to say to himself — because investor be intelligent people — " where will I get my raw material ? oh , I will get they , as most do , from Great Britain . " but then he will discover that those raw material will have to pass through an international custom border , with all the regulation , all the delay and all the inspection , and the shine soon go off that idea . far from be a bonanza , this have turn out to be anything but . I have already point out that the one sector that be flourish be the service sector . that do not just happen to be the case ; it be able to flourish because it be outside the protocol . and thing will get bad : next Friday , when the general product safety regulation come into force , many small supplier will simply stop supply because of the bureaucratic burden that will be place on they . already , in so many case , when someone want to buy an item online , this will pop up : " not available in Northern Ireland . " why be that ? because the small supplier from Great Britain find it impossible to handle the burden of bureaucracy , so they be simply say , " we be not supply to Northern Ireland . " that be hugely frustrating for so many people in Northern Ireland — include , I might say , Mrs Allister , who , like many a woman , want to order thing and then find that they be not available in Northern Ireland . how would hon . member from Great Britain feel if " not available in Scotland , " " not available in Wales " and " not available in England " constantly pop up ? would they not be ask why ? and when they hear the answer , " it be something call the protocol , " why would they continue to be enthusiast for the very thing that be block their consumer from get the supply they need ? this be a practical issue . I commend the hon . and learn Gentleman ' s passion , but his problem be not unique . anywhere in the highland and island of Scotland , or even in peripheral part of England , have the same delivery problem as he do . Ours be not a delivery problem ; ours be a bar on send . Ours be not just that it be too difficult ; our be that it be too difficult because of the international custom requirement . that be the difference between we and the highland and island . I be sure the highland and island do have that delivery problem , and I be sure that small business do shirk the desire to serve they , but in Northern Ireland it be for a more fundamental and compelling reason . the frustration that the hon . and learn Member be talk about be surely a good argument for what the Government be try to do in reset the relationship between the UK and the EU . therefore , this Bill would only undermine the UK ' s credibility in do that with our international partner . do he agree that we need to remain focused on the issue go forward , rather than go over these point again ? this Bill be prospective in its tone and purpose . it be about go forward . it be about solve the problem that have be put upon we . the hon . Member say , " oh , let ' s reset . " for some , of course , that mean , " let ' s rejoin . " that be a matter for those who be advocate for it , but it be certainly not where I would like to see this United Kingdom go . yes , we need to reset , but we need to reset on the basis that Brexit be for all , not just for some . when we reset on that basis , the Government will not have I constantly raise these issue , because I will have the equal citizenship that have be deny to I and my constituent by these arrangement . fundamentally , this be an equal citizenship issue . the thought that they be be treat differently , by be deny the equal citizenship of the rest of the United Kingdom , be quite appalling and insulting to many people in Northern Ireland . article 2 of the protocol have be mention in an intervention . the Government say a couple of night ago that they will appeal the finding in one of the case in Northern Ireland , although , listen to the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , I think it be a pretty half - hearted appeal . article 2 show we that it be not just about trade . that be the initial selling point of the protocol , " oh , it be only about trade , " but now we have discover , through article 2 , that it have a most pervasive effect on all sort of thing . legislation in the last Parliament have be overturn in its application in Northern Ireland . why ? because of article 2 . now , whether we like or dislike the Rwanda Bill be not the point . the point be that our High Court and Court of Appeal have rule that the provision of the Rwanda Bill can not be operate in Northern Ireland . why ? because of article 2 . why be that ? because article 2 subject Northern Ireland to the EU ' s human right provision , not the UK ' s human right provision . protection that exist for asylum seeker under EU law therefore prevent the measure from operate . it be not about the debate of the merit or de - merit ; it be about the constitutional fact that a Bill of this House , the sovereign will of that time of this supposedly sovereign Parliament , could not be implement in a part of the United Kingdom because of the supremacy of EU law . will the hon . and learn Gentleman give way ? no , I will finish my point . that be the fundamental issue here . we also have it on the legacy Bill . again , it be not about the merit or the de - merit of the legacy Bill , much of which I abhor ; it be about the principle that our court in this United Kingdom rule . the provision of this Parliament — the sovereign will of this Parliament — be overridden by the law of a foreign jurisdiction . that be the fundamental issue of sovereignty at stake here . that be why clause 2 will address the import of article 2 by make it something that can not be give effect in domestic law . I thank the hon . and learn Gentleman for give way . I hope he will recognise that it be not laughter on the Government Benches , but bemusement at the inconsistency . he opine about his anger that a third party can make law in Northern Ireland . many of we try to untangle the inconsistency in the Rwanda legislation . the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and I try in vain to raise it with the previous Government . the critical issue be the right to remedy and the right it give people in Northern Ireland to petition a third party if they think their government be overbear on their own basic right . the hon . and learn Gentleman have himself use those right : he have choose to go to the Supreme Court and that be why we be here today . he have not choose to go to the Court in Strasbourg — that would be his right and I would support he in do so — but why would he deny the right to remedy to the rest of his fellow resident of Northern Ireland , as the Bill would , when he say he think it be wrong for that right to be protect by the European Court of Human Rights in the first place ? order . I remind member that it be up to the Member who be on their foot whether they want to accept an intervention . I have be very generous in give way . in a way I be not assist my cause , because I know Government Members want to talk the Bill out . I would rather see they take a stand on whether they be for or against the subjugation of sovereignty within the United Kingdom . I be go to move on and deal with these issue . the hon . member for Walthamstow refer to my take a case to the Supreme Court . why would I not ? it be the Supreme Court of my United Kingdom . why would I not take a case to the Supreme Court and test the law that relate ? I remind the House again that what the Supreme Court have to hold be that , because of the protocol so enthusiastically support by Labour Members , Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom have be subjugate . the Supreme Court hold that the fundamental building block of article 6 of the act of Union be in suspension because of the import of the protocol . some tell we , " well , we don ' t want to face these issue . " there be no option , we be tell , because of the Belfast agreement . I have even read and hear people say , " the Belfast agreement prohibit a border on the island of Ireland . " I hold the agreement in my hand . I have read it many time . perhaps someone could direct I : where in this document do it say that there can not be a customs border on the island of Ireland ? where be it ? it be not there ! we already have a currency border , a vat border , a tax border . nowhere in the Belfast agreement do it say that you can not have a customs border at the international boundary of the United Kingdom — nor should it . and then I be tell , " this would breach international law if you do not have the protocol . " that be not correct either . a fundamental premise of international law be respect for territorial integrity . what have I be talk about for the last hour , if it have not be about respect territorial integrity ? that be the fundamental premise of international law . it all go back to the General Assembly of the United Nations declaration on principle of international law . what do it say ? it say that territorial integrity be key , and that the declaration constitute the basic principle of international law . it say : " every state shall refrain from any action aim at … disruption of the national unity or territorial integrity of any other state . " if only that have be adhere to . the declaration say : " where obligation under international agreement be in conflict with the obligation of this charter , the obligation of this charter shall prevail . " so the fundamental principle be respect for territorial integrity . that be the govern principle of international law , so when an agreement come into play that defy the fundamental requirement to respect territorial integrity , that agreement fall , not international law . will the hon . and learn Gentleman give way ? no , I be go to make some progress . I strongly refute the fallacy that to depart from the Windsor framework be to breach international law . on the contrary , to perpetuate the infringement of our territorial integrity be to breach international law itself and , indeed , the Belfast agreement , which be build on consent , of which there have be none in respect of the current arrangement . the correct application of international law be to the effect that agreement that contradict the regulating principle , include respect for territorial integrity , be themselves the villain of the piece . have set out everything that be wrong , let I come to the solution . the Government have always tell we that we can not conduct sanitary and phytosanitary check away from the border . it can not be do , so we must have a border — in our case , in the irish sea . but this week a statutory instrument be lay before this House that do exactly that . it do it for good that come from the EU , via Northern Ireland , to GB . it say that the good can be check wherever they arrive , such as at factory or other premise ; they do not have to be check at the border . if we can do that for good come through Northern Ireland to GB , why can we not do it in reverse ? of course we could check good without tamper with sovereignty ; we could do so anywhere within the territory of the United Kingdom . it be not the impracticability of carry out the necessary check that be the problem ; it be the fact that under the surrender of sovereignty it have be insist that they be carry out in the irish sea border . that bring I to clause 16 to 18 and the concept they would permit of mutual enforcement . I readily accept that the clause draw heavily on the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill 2022 — which find the approval of the previous Parliament — but they be none the bad for that . what they do be simple : they say that two respect neighbour — that be what I hope the United Kingdom and the EU be — with the necessary trust between each other can operate a system where they mutually check the good flow through their territory to ensure they meet the standard of the recipient territory . that be a fundamental tenet of much of international trade . it be something that can be build upon in respect of this matter that the United Kingdom say , " yes , we know the EU want to protect , it tell we , its single market and , yes , we want to protect our single market , so we will undertake , by virtue of criminal sanction for those who do not , to check that good flow from our factory to your consumer , from our territory to your territory , meet the standard you set , and we expect you to do the same . " that can be do without any of the paraphernalia that we presently have . on this particular point , it be worth point out that the EU already do it . in its agreement with New Zealand , for example , it trust that specific veterinary practice to check lamb and other product arrive in the EU be do at the point of departure . by the time they get to Rotterdam , they be clear straight through on the basis that they respect the check do by those veterinary company . they already do it for 40 year with UK company where any subsequent check have to be do . all this be already be do . the question be : why be it not be do for the arrangement we have at the moment ? I absolutely agree . the fascinating point be the very concept be articulate from and originate within the EU itself . during the early stage of the negotiation , Sir Jonathan Faull and academic Daniel Sarmiento and Joseph Weiler come up with that proposition . it be not my proposition . it be not a United Kingdom proposition . it be an EU proposition . they say the answer be mutual enforcement . today we have a statement from those three gentleman , which have be make public . it say , " on Friday of this week , the House of Commons will be debate a bill which attempt to address some of the difficulty result from the Brexit divorce agreement between the EU and the UK , which might be of interest to reader . in 2019 , we propose a solution which would have obviate any need for these complicated and divisive legal manoeuvre . the UK and the EU could have respect each other ' s position and save everyone a great deal of time and effort . the Financial Times characterise the proposal as a ' win - win solution ' . regrettably , it be not follow . " I echo that : regrettably , it be not follow . why be it not follow ? because the politic take over . instead of look for a workable , practical border solution , the politic of make the United Kingdom pay for leave the EU take over . that be how we get into this morass of a pernicious imposition through the border . during the early stage of the negotiation , the permanent secretary of the then Brexit Department tell the Select Committee that the Irish Government , before Leo Varadkar take over , be actually explore those kind of solution . the politic of the changeover in the Irish Republic and the willingness of Leo Varadkar to become the puppet of the EU in these negotiation stop that method of look at the border . I fear that there be a lot of truth in that . as I say , the politic take over . a further truth be that for some — not all , but some — enthusiast of the protocol arrangement of a nationalist or irish republican persuasion , there be a political gain that subsume all doubt that they might have as democrat . for 30 year and more , the IRA terrorise through bomb and bullet to try to push the border to the irish sea : " brit out — push the border to the Irish sea ! " that be precisely what the protocol have do : it have push the border to the Irish sea . shame on you ! the hon . Member may object from a sedentary position , but the challenge for she be whether her nationalism be more important to she than her democratic credential . rise — I will give way to the hon . member in a moment , because I have mention she . how can the hon . member , who call herself a Social Democratic and Labour Member , look her constituent in the eye and say , " I believe you be not worthy to have your law make by those you elect : I would rather they be make by those you don ' t elect " ? be it because the nationalist reach of the protocol be more important than the democratic detriment of the protocol ? if the hon . and learn Member want to talk about constitutional change , perhaps he might set out for the Chamber the number and the level of support for the Union before and after he begin his Brexit adventure . he will know that I , as a democrat , constitutionally compromise every single day , because I be a democrat , I be an adult and I live in a constitutional reality that be not of my choosing . I be an irish person live , work and uphold democracy in the United Kingdom . the hon . and learn Member will also know that none of his argument about democratic deficit stand in any way , when his campaign suppress the Northern Ireland Assembly , the legitimate expression and place of primary lawmaking for Northern Ireland , and when he create an enormous health sea border in the irish sea . his adventure — his hobby horse — have create a scenario in which one third of the population of Northern Ireland be on a health waiting list . I and other who do not like exactly the way our constitutional arrangement be make stand up every day and work to solve those problem ; all he want to do be create they . it be his action , in fact , that be insert the dynamism in the question about constitutional change . every time he pull a stunt like this , he drive more people to seek to get out of the control of man like he . I , as a democrat , uphold democracy . I accept the constitutional reality ; I accept that we be member of the United Kingdom . I be seek to change that democratically , so he will never again question my commitment to democracy in Northern Ireland . I acknowledge the hon . member ' s speech , but let I say this : it be no stunt to ask , on behalf of my constituent , for what every other part of this United Kingdom have — the right to be rule by law we make ourselves . it be no stunt to ask for equal citizenship ; it be no stunt to say that this United Kingdom — the clue be in the title — should not be partition by an international custom border . will the hon . and learn Member give way ? I will when I have deal with some other point . that be an assault upon the sincerity and efficacy of those who dare to say , " if we be part of the United Kingdom , we need to be treat as part of the United Kingdom . " the hon . member for Belfast South and Mid Down ( Claire Hanna ) do not explain why she think it right to disenfranchise her constituent and to reject a workable and practical solution . those who reject a workable and practical solution be those who do not want such a solution in respect of the irish border . that be very clear from her intervention . several year ago , former Prime Minister Boris Johnson tell we that there be an oven - ready deal . that be clearly not the case , because we be still discuss this . the hon . and learn Member have mention mutual enforcement , but nowhere in the world do mutual enforcement happen wholesale under trading regulation between country . the only workable deal that have be strike be reach not by politic , but through a pragmatic work out , and that be the Windsor framework . be he sell something that can not actually work ? the mutual enforcement idea have be describe by the EU Commission as magical thinking . I remind the Minister that the magical thinking come from the EU itself , through Jonathan Faull and his colleague , who make that very suggestion . and why would what I suggest not work ? if the EU be our friend — if we trust it and it trust we — why would it not trust we to keep our word on impose its standard on our good enter its territory ? if that do not work , then it be time to talk about alternative , but that proposal should be the starting point . there be the whimsical dismissal that it would not work , even though it have never be try . the really chilling thing about the Minister ' s intervention be its subtext : " suck it up , Northern Ireland . you ' re no long a full part of the United Kingdom . you will just live like a colony of the EU , under its law in 300 area . we have no empathy and no desire to fix it ; we will just leave you in that position . " that be the chilling import of her intervention . it may be helpful to remind the Minister that the EU ' s own expert , Mr Lars Karlsson , say in his " Smart Border 2 . 0 " report that with technology and good will , all these issue could be overcome . however , the politic of Mr Varadkar and the EU overrode that . that be absolutely right , and in Northern Ireland we suffer the consequence of those aggressive political agenda every day . if the Government be say , " this be fine ; there be nothing to see here . we don ' t need to fix anything , " then they be not just insult the intelligence of those of we who introduce the Bill , but say to my constituent , " you can carry on be second - class citizen . " the Government can not say to my constituent , " you be equal citizen , but you will not be govern by british law . " that be what the Government be say to my constituent in North Antrim and to people across Northern Ireland . " you have equal citizenship , but some be more equal than other . some will be rule by the law that this Parliament make , or by those that the devolve assembly make , but you will be rule by law that someone else make for you , and be grateful for it . " that be where we have get to on this issue . it be not just insulting but frankly unacceptable for the people of Northern Ireland to be treat in this way . give the Government ' s enthusiasm to maintain the unworkable status quo , they should reflect on the fact that there be about to be a new President of the United States who have make it very plain that he be in tariff mode . if he carry through his tariff , this United Kingdom Government will need a trade deal . why would a President of the United States do a trade deal with the United Kingdom if the UK have a back door that be open to the EU ? that be the consequence of this protocol . we do not have a secure international trade border ; the border with the EU be porous , and by all report , Mr Trump be pretty adverse to the EU . why would he ever do a deal with the United Kingdom with that back door open ? should this Government not take the opportunity present by this Bill to say , " we will fix this arrangement , and then we can convince the Americans that we be a safe and secure partner in a trade deal " ? so long as the protocol exist , we can not give the United States of America that certainty . it be in the national interest , the Government ' s interest and our trading interest to fix this arrangement , so that we can pursue a trade deal with the Americans — who , at the end of the day , be our good friend in all this — on the good possible term . the hon . and learn Gentleman have already outline that there be 300 tightly bind area where the EU influence Northern irish legislation , but it sound very much as if he be now suggest that the United Kingdom should operate under whatever remit the President - elect of the United States choose to set for we . policy be make here in Parliament , not in DC . I only wish that the law for Northern Ireland be make in this Parliament , or in our devolved institution . if the hon . member have be listen at all , surely he have understand that there be 300 vast area — they be not self - contain ; they be expand , and have already be expand — on which law be make in a foreign Parliament . that be the fundamental point . if we want a trade deal with the United States , we have to show that it will be a bona fide trade deal with the United Kingdom , not with a surrogate of the EU through a back door that be wide open . I note that the hon . and learn Gentleman fail to answer the question from my hon . friend the Member for Belfast South and Mid Down ( Claire Hanna ) . he talk about do a deal with the United States of America on trade . how could we possibly be take seriously as a trade partner by any country in the world in future if we break the deal that we already have on the table ? if the deal be reach under false pretence — if it be reach in breach of international law , because it breach respect for territorial integrity — yes , the first thing this government should do be reverse that arrangement . they should not continue with a deal that do not respect the territorial integrity of this United Kingdom . that be the fundamental principle of international law , and if international law have be disregard to get this arrangement , the arrangement be disreputable and not worthy of continuation . that would be of more interest to our american friend than our saying , " we will make a deal that will sell out some of our own people — that will create circumstance where any trade deal we do will benefit the EU through the back door — but please , Mr President , make a deal with we . " that will not happen , and the Government need to realise that . let I try to draw my remark to a conclusion by turn to clause 19 . it seek to reinstate the fundamental operating principle of the Belfast agreement , which be that every key decision in Northern Ireland , because of our divide and troubled past , should and must be make on a cross - community basis . it be there in black and white in the agreement , yet next Tuesday , the most key decision that the Northern Ireland Assembly have ever take will come before it without a need for it to have cross - community consent . that decision will be on whether Northern Ireland should continue , in 300 area of law , to surrender its lawmaking power to a foreign Parliament . there be nothing more fundamental , either to Northern Ireland ' s constitutional status or to the governance of the people of Northern Ireland , than that . however , to ensure the desire outcome of that vote , a move be make to remove , especially for that vote , the cross - community requirement , so that for the first time in over 50 year we will have a majoritarian decision of considerable import take in Northern Ireland . that be a rigging of the arrangement of the Belfast agreement . strange as it might be , through this Bill , I be the one champion the requirement of the Belfast agreement by ask : if the modus operandi be to ensure cross - community support , why have the vote be rig to remove cross - community support ? one might have think that the hon . member for Belfast South and Mid Down would be the champion of the Belfast agreement , and would want to ensure that its fundamental operating principle of cross - community support be respect , but no : she and her party be cheerlead for the vote . they bring the matter to the Assembly when the Executive fail to . it be an important point — a point that cut to the heart of the operation and stability of the Belfast agreement — that for the first time , a key decision be to be take not on the prescribed cross - community basis , but on a majoritarian basis . what do that say to I and my community ? it say , " you don ' t really matter . it be more important that we get this vote through . cross - community ? ah , that be about protect nationalism . it be never about protect Unionism . " well , sorry , but we be call that in today . we say , if it be good enough for nationalism , it should be good enough for Unionism . why be this Government and this House try to say to Unionism in Northern Ireland , " you don ' t matter on this issue . we will railroad you " ? that be the fundamental point . be it not the hon . and learn Member ' s position that Brexit do not require cross - community consent ? in the eight election since Brexit , the people of Northern Ireland have reject Brexit . however , he say that the protection require cross - community consent . it be a case of consent for thee , but not for I . will he confirm that the inclusion of this provision mean that he now support the Good Friday agreement , 26 year after repudiate the will of 71 % of the people ? Brexit be a national vote , decide for well or for bad on a national basis . the people of London do not vote for Brexit , but no one be say they should now be rule by law from Brussels . the People of Northern Ireland by a small majority do not vote for Brexit , but member be say that we should be rule by law from Brussels . that do not stack up . I be simply call in aid what the Belfast agreement say : the Belfast agreement say key decision be cross - community . be anyone deny this be a key decision ? if so , why be it not a cross - community vote ? I thank the hon . and learn Gentleman for introduce this Bill , and I acknowledge his recognition of the strength of those protection in the Belfast agreement , which be build in by my party and especially by Lord Trimble , the former leader of the Ulster Unionist party and the crafter and political deliverer of unionism in support of the Belfast agreement at that time . he say : " I feel betray personally by the Northern Ireland Protocol , and it be also why the unionist population be so incensed at its imposition . the protocol rip the very heart out of the agreement , which I and they believe safeguard Northern Ireland as part of the United Kingdom and ensure that democracy not violence , threat of violence or outside interference , would or could ever change that . make no mistake about it , the protocol do not safeguard the Good Friday Agreement . it demolish its central premise by remove the assurance that democratic consent be need to make any change to the status of Northern Ireland . it embody a number of constitutional change that relate to Northern Ireland . " the late Lord Trimble be absolutely right about that . what be happen on Tuesday be an invitation to the Assembly , courtesy of the Government ' s directive , to tear up the key central portion of the Belfast agreement on cross - community consent . there be another point . the hon . and learn Member talk about the Good Friday agreement . why do his Bill not guarantee that the institution of the agreement have power , and why be he happy to put those with UK Government Ministers , unlike the exist arrangement under the Windsor framework ? my Bill be about seek to restore democracy to the arrangement . that be why I want to take back from Brussels control over our law . my Bill be a charter for democratic progress . the present arrangement be the antithesis of democratic operation . the hon . and learn Member might not have support the Good Friday agreement but do he not acknowledge that the agreement recognise the sovereignty of the United Kingdom in Northern Ireland ? it involve a changing of the constitution in the Republic to recognise the sovereignty of the UK in Northern Ireland for the first time . it also recognise the reality and the existence of a border on the island of Ireland . what he be do be reinforce the principle of the Good Friday agreement , which he himself might have oppose back in the day . the core operate principle of the devolved institution of Northern Ireland be that key issue have cross - community consent . that be what have be rip out for Tuesday . I have yet to hear a rational , convince explanation for that . maybe the Minister have one . why have we rip out of the heart of the Belfast agreement the very thing that be suppose to give comfort to both side — that neither side would get one over on they ? why have we rip that out of this agreement ? if the Minister wish to tell I , I will gladly give way on that point . there be even a further point about this vote on Tuesday . article 18 . 2 of the protocol say that the consent vote be to be " reach strictly in accordance with the unilateral declaration make by the United Kingdom " Government of October 2019 . I repeat : " strictly in accordance with " . that unilateral declaration of October ' 19 promise a public consultation before this vote . it be there in black and white in the word of the declaration . there have be no consultation . so why be the Government invite the Assembly to conduct a vote which breach the guideline lay down by the protocol itself — that the consent vote should be strictly in accordance with that declaration ? that declaration include the promise of a public consultation , of which there have be none . that be another question — will the hon . and learn Member give way ? I would rather give way to the Minister on that issue , but I hear no answer . the House have be patient as I have lay out the argument for the Bill . I see the Bill as an opportunity to restore the equilibrium , which I hope to have demonstrate have be destroy in these arrangement . that be the democratic equilibrium , the equilibrium of equal citizenship , the equilibrium of Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom and the equilibrium of our relation with the EU . all those be positive , all those be in the national interest , and all those be that which I believe should recommend themselves to the House . I trust that the House will give favour to the Bill . may I say that it be a delight to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I thank the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) for give the House the opportunity to debate the content of his Bill , as set out in its 25 clause , and the issue that surround it , which have clearly be the subject of consternation , to say the least , in some quarter . I listen carefully to the many point and assertion that the hon . and learn Gentleman make ; no doubt everybody in the Chamber listen to they . I do not underestimate the significance of the concern — perceive , real or otherwise — that he and many other have in relation to the operation of the Windsor framework , which in effect be a successfully negotiate recalibration of the Northern Ireland protocol . there be no doubt that all side work hard to achieve an agreement , give the obvious complexity , nuance and tension that be bind to arise when the implementation of the decision to leave the European Union be make in the light of the 2016 referendum . the detailed statement make by the most recent former Prime Minister , the response to it and the question about it on 27 February 2023 set the tone , in my view — I think that be also the view of many other hon . member — for a genuine attempt on all side of the negotiation to be as flexible as possible , give the circumstance . I want to quote a few point from that debate . the Prime Minister at the time say : " today ' s agreement have three equally important objective : first , allow trade to flow freely within our UK internal market ; secondly , protect Northern Ireland ' s place in our Union " — we all agree with and recognise that — " and thirdly , safeguard sovereignty and close the democratic deficit . " — [ Official Report , 27 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 570 . ] he go on to take each of those in turn in more detail . he later say : " today ' s agreement scrap 1 , 700 page of EU law . " — [ Official Report , 27 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 571 . ] that have be refer to in the debate ; I will return to that in due course . he go on to say : " the EU have also explicitly accept an important principle in the political declaration . it be there in black and white that the treaty be subject to the Vienna convention . this mean that , unequivocally , the legal basis for the Windsor framework be in international law . " — [ Official Report , 27 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 574 . ] it be important to move on to the current Prime Minister , who be then the Leader of the Opposition . he say : " this agreement will allow we to move forward as a country , rather than be lock in endless dispute with our ally . " — [ Official Report , 27 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 577 . ] who would not agree with that statement ? we do not want to continue to be lock in endless battle and argument with our ally . it be worthwhile refer to the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , who say at the time : " my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and his ministerial colleague have strain every sinew these last week and month to arrive at today ' s position . they be to be congratulate . " — [ Official Report , 27 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 582 . ] that be important from the conservative Benches . the current Secretary of State for Northern Ireland say : " I congratulate the negotiator on this very significant achievement " , and it be an achievement . even the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) say : " I start by unreservedly congratulate my right hon . friend on what seem to be a spectacular negotiating success . " — [ Official Report , 27 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 584 . ] I be listen to my hon . friend ' s speech with interest . do he agree that his contribution show that there be space for fulsome debate and important democratic scrutiny of these thing that affect our family of nation ? my hon . friend be right . many of we here today want to discuss this issue because it be crucial to our constituent not just in the short term , but in the long term . the former Member for Clwyd West say : " the Command Paper tell we that the framework , ' narrow the range of EU rule applicable in Northern Ireland — to less than 3 % overall by the EU ' s own calculation ' " . — [ Official Report , 27 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 605 . ] the hon . Member have recite what some might have think be erudite contribution in support of these arrangement , apparently with the insinuation towards the end that we have consider this whole matter . have his friend not spend since July try to undo the very thing that the previous Government do on so many other matter , because they think that they be wrong ? they be wrong on this , so should they not be try to undo it ? I do not quite understand the hon . and learn Member ' s point . today , we be try to tease out many of the issue and concern that he , quite understandably , have raise , to try to understand they and maybe to reflect on they and , in future , give consideration to they through the process . it be important that we be all here today listen to what he and other member have to say . importantly , this House be charge , along with the Irish Government , to uphold the Good Friday agreement . in any legislation that come along , it be right and proper that we ask how to do that , alongside our colleague across in Ireland . this legislation touch on so many element of that agreement , so today ' s debate be also about we do the important job that we pledge to do all those year ago , to improve and maintain peace and stability in Northern Ireland . my hon . friend be absolutely right . I would be the first to admit that we do not always get these thing right — whoever do ? what we have to do be try , try and try again , and attempt to do our good in good faith . I will come back to that in a moment . the hon . Member have quote some of the comment that be make in this House , but do he accept that of the two people who negotiate the very thing that he be refer to , and to whom those comment refer , one think that he have sign up to an agreement for no paperwork ? he say that if there be any paperwork , people should simply tear it up , as it do not matter . do he accept that the other one negotiate an agreement whose EU version be totally different from the version that he give to this House and the people of Northern Ireland ? let we not fall back too much on the comment make about either of the two agreement of the time , because many be make either with a lack of knowledge or with hope that be not fully found . I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment , and I be not go to challenge the integrity of the people who be part of that negotiation . it be not for I to challenge their integrity : they be hon . member , and I believe that they do what they do with the good intention . during the statement on 27 February , I believe that , on the whole , most comment be supportive , but I acknowledge and accept that some be not , such as those from the right hon . Gentleman himself . he make his view know , as do other . I acknowledge that some of the member who speak during that statement be in the Chamber today and express disquiet . I welcome the fact that they have take their place on the Benches , but their disquiet and the disquiet of other must be set in the context of the following — namely , that the agreement , accord to the Command Paper , which be important and which I refer to early , " narrow the range of EU rule applicable in Northern Ireland – to less than 3 % overall by the EU ' s own calculation . " in any negotiation in the circumstance , come away with that figure be not necessarily unreasonable . would a figure of 100 % be the acid test ? maybe it would , but I do not think so , give the circumstance — in practical term , that be unlikely . that be the nature of negotiation : otherwise , it would be call imposition . we must recognise that those on the other side , who have their view , passion and commitment to their community as well as their history , have also be fraught with other people . I will finish with this . I do not accept the idea that some of our partner in the European Union — some of those eastern bloc european country that be under the yoke of the Soviet Union as a coloniser — would take the different view that they , in turn , be part of a group or cabal try to impose a colonialist approach to another country . how else would the hon . member describe a scenario in which a huge quota of law be make in a foreign jurisdiction ? how else would he classify that than as colonialism ? I will touch on that a little later . I wish I could understand — perhaps my hon . friend can help I out with this . if , on the one hand , the European Union be a source of colonisation that have this disrespect towards the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland , but , on the other hand , as part of a trade agreement we would simply trust each other to mutually enforce each other ' s rule without any level of oversight , at what point do we start trust these coloniser , as oppose to recognise that as part of an international trade treaty , we both have to stick to the same set of rule and see they uphold ? my hon . friend make a good point . at the end of the day , whether the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim and I like it or not , and I do , they be ally in virtually the big trading area — in fact , it be the large — in the world , but I accept that member have concern . I be not try to deny that , and I be not try to demean they or push they under the carpet . I also do not want to revisit the pre - referendum process . it be unavaile at this stage to rehash or regurgitate the argument , warning , finger pointing , claim , vilification , passion and tension that at time dominate the debate in the lead - up to and during the last week of the referendum campaign , but the situation we face be a direct result and consequence of that decision — of that , in my view , there be no doubt . I believe it be fair to say that personality , rather than policy , often dominate the discussion and debate at the time . I also believe that , at time , high - politics issue around sovereignty , self - determination and other factor come into play . however , such matter be really symmetrical . that be the nature of the democratic debate and of the democratic debate that we have in this country , for well or bad . do the hon . Gentleman accept that one consequence be that we have a United Kingdom in part of which people have a second - class citizenship compare with the rest of the United Kingdom ? do he have any solution , other than the solution put forward by the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) in his brilliant Bill , as he bring intellectual rigour to try to address this intractable problem ? I think the fact that the hon . Gentleman use the word " intractable " give we a clue about how challenging it actually be . when a country decide , for well or for bad , to withdraw from a treaty to which it have be a signatory for more than 50 year , issue be bind to arise . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill undermine not only the UK ' s adherence to the Windsor framework , but the security architecture that the Belfast agreement underpin ? the Belfast agreement be not just a peace settlement , but a cornerstone of our national security strategy . by jeopardise our reputation as a trustworthy international partner , the Bill would weaken our ability to collaborate with ally on global security challenge . do he not agree that by maintain the integrity of the agreement , we be safeguard our national security and international standing ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . we have to be very careful of the law of unintended consequence when we go down a particular path . issue be bind to arise that either no one think about or think would have significance outside of an abstract environment but subsequently become significant , or that be park so that we could come back to they at a later date . the reality , as we find throughout the whole post - referendum period — oven - ready this and oven - ready that — be that lot of thing that be park be come back to bite . the problem with that , as I say , be the law of unseen and ignore consequence — those thing be wait around the corner , and turn up like an uninvited and unwelcome guest in our house . please bear with I , Madam Deputy Speaker , on the potential unintended consequence of come out of a treaty . imagine what would happen if we decide to abrogate the North Atlantic treaty — which , of course , no one would dream of do . we know there would certainly be huge consequence to such an action . I suspect member understand there would be pretty immediate and most probably predictable consequence to that . however , it be sometimes the unpredictability of take action that come back to haunt we . the same could be say for other treaty , which may appear to be of little significance and consequence in the short term , but which might take on a whole new persona down the line . I be not sure that many people would initially grasp the consequence of , say , breach the Antarctic treaty , but there would be consequence in due course . if we abrogate a treaty , or part of a treaty , it be unlikely that we can then somehow revisit it , change domestic law and expect other country to accept that . I will finish on this point , because it be important . there be other treaty that we have to look to — I could go into detail on they , but I will not . what about — [ interruption . ] well , if member insist . how about the 1963 nuclear test ban treaty ? what would happen if we decide to tweak that a little bit through domestic law ? it would be dangerous . precisely — my hon . friend on the Front Bench say it would be dangerous , and it would be . what about the key provision of the outer space treaty ? what about the agreement establish the European Bank for Reconstruction and Redevelopment ? on and on it go . be the Belfast agreement not an international treaty subject to international law ? be it okay to breach that agreement when it come to its provision of every key decision be take on a cross - community basis ? I suppose that be okay because it affect only Unionists . the bottom line , in my view and that of many other people , be that it have not be breach . I completely accept that the hon . and learn Gentleman take a different view , but I do not believe that it have be breach , and there be well legal brain than I who agree . the Windsor framework be in turn realign through the " safeguard the Union " paper of January 2024 , which the hon . and learn Gentleman refer to , and the Stormont brake mechanism and the provision contain therein for the Northern Ireland Assembly to approach the UK Government in relation to the application of EU law . I read the Windsor framework time and time and time again , as I suspect all member in this Chamber do . north - south co - operation between institution in Northern Ireland be a vital component of the Good Friday agreement , so I thank my hon . friend for make his point about treaty , because the Bill , which I have read , in clause 14 make it possible to disapply protection in the Windsor framework for north - south co - operation . would my hon . friend reflect on why disapplye the role of north - south co - operation would be consistent with the intent of uphold the Good Friday agreement ? that be a relevant point for he to reflect on . that be a really good point , and I be pleased we be have this debate , because these be the point we need to consider carefully when we look at these issue and figure they out . it be an excellent point ; I think we will all reflect on that , and I hope the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim and hon . gentleman across the Chamber reflect on it . it be important to note that the protection of the Belfast agreement be paramount and that be there to reassure the community of Northern Ireland . I hope that this debate continue , notwithstanding some of the point that the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim make , so that people understand that we be here to reassure as much as we can . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will , but I first want to make a point about the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim . I know that he hold view that be bear out of real belief in , and commitment to , his constituent and the wide community across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and that be exactly the view that I take . I hold view bear out of a real belief in , and commitment to , my constituent , and every member in this Chamber take that approach . who be I to challenge their integrity on that ? I be not in any way go to attempt that , either from my side or to cast aspersion on the other side . the hon . Gentleman mention the 3 % of EU law that we have to obey . would the hon . member like his constituent to be unable to get drug for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and diabete , as be the case in Northern Ireland ? would his constituent like that ? the hon . Gentleman can get veterinary drug in his constituency that we can not get . would he like that situation for his constituency ? let we say that the hon . Gentleman have a dog and want to take it to his neighbouring constituency — would he like it if he need to get a passport to come back ? do he not think that this situation be unfair on we in Northern Ireland , as we be mean to be part of the United Kingdom ? the framework attempt to do that , and there be nothing , I suspect , that prevent those issue be tease out in more detail as time go by , but at the end of the day , I do not live in a perfect world — I do not know about anybody else . I have constituent , for example , who have be unable to get access to drug , and that be nothing to do with this issue ; it be to do with a whole range of matter that have develop over the past 14 year in relation to Government policy , but I do not want to go there . I and other hon . member be try to do the good we possibly can , give the circumstance we have inherit . I know that might be cold comfort for some member across the Chamber , but it be say with the good intent and with sincerity . it be not to brush this matter aside ; it be a recognition that there be challenge , but those challenge be bind to crop up give some of the point I raise early . rise — rise — I will give way first to the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) and then to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I thank the hon . member for make that point . it look like I will not get to make a speech , but I want to put on the record that the Ulster Unionist party actually campaign to remain in the European Union . we think it well at that point , because we foresaw exactly what be happen now . we respect the referendum of this United Kingdom , but we be now see the enabling of what we be concern about because of the lack of interest in this House with regard to some of the regulation that be come through and how they be apply to Northern Ireland . the hon . member mention medicine . yes , we have supply issue , which be global issue , but we also have additional supply issue because of regulation from the European Union . as far as I be aware , the framework attempt to tackle some of those issue . I completely accept that the hon . Member maybe do not accept that or do not want to accept it ; I do not know . I be not cast aspersion at all on the integrity or belief of Members . at no time do I say anything that deny the right of people to hold the view that they hold , which be clearly , deeply and obviously feel . in a way , I actually celebrate those difference . I thank the hon . member for his contribution . I want to give the point of view of my constituent , who run a business . she say , " I currently supply material to a lady in Devon , who then produce good for sale within the United Kingdom , only I ' m at a complete loss as to what to do regard the GPSR rule come in . the United Kingdom vote to leave the EU . Successive Parliaments have do what they can to make this nation as dysfunctional as possible and return we to EU subjugation . " what would the hon . Member tell my constituent ' s business , which must close as part of the price to pay to far the aim of have an all - Ireland Irish Republic ? that be what my constituent say , and it be very much contrary to what the hon . Gentleman say . as I understand it , that issue be be negotiate . I understand what the hon . Gentleman say , but I do not accept the point he make about subjugation . I do not think it be subjugation , and I will come to that . I understand what the hon . Gentleman be say . I respect the point he make , and I respect the view of his constituent , just as I respect the view of my constituent . but it do not alter the fact that the negotiation be take place . as I say before — I will repeat it again — these thing be never , ever symmetrical . I know that the hon . member and other on the Government Benches have try to make light of the use of the word " subjugation " , " colonisation " and everything else , but almost every week in this place , member complain that minister do not come to this House to explain and elucidate on their policy , and that they be not prepared to be question on those policy , and quite rightly so . if Ministers be able to do that continuously in this place , would Labour Members not be claim that we do not have accountable Government , that we do not have a Government who respect democracy , and that they be subjugate the people who be affect by those law ? I guarantee that no member present would accept that from Ministers in this place , but they accept it in Northern Ireland . in this place , we be enable to ask these question in a whole variety of different way , include oral question , write question and meeting with Ministers . they be still available right across the piece , and the right hon . Gentleman know that . over a number year in this place , I have sometimes feel that I have not be listen to by the Government of the day . that be what I believe . [ interruption . ] I be often listen to by the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , who be on the Opposition Front Bench , and I completely accept that there be honourable exception . but at the end of the day , we live in a democracy in which we can challenge time after time , and we have to be persistent . I repeat that there be difference of opinion , but I respect they . I hope that today ' s debate be be conduct in an as open and transparent way as possible . this be not the end of the matter . even if the Bill do not go through , the matter be not over . nobody be go to pretend that somehow we be all go to go our separate way and no one be ever go to ask a question or challenge a Minister in the future . this issue will come back time after time . I know emotion have its place , but so do hard fact , statistic and evidence , and they have to be balance against one another . however , passion can sometimes lead to a febrile atmosphere that dominate , and we have to guard against that . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech , especially on the language we use . in my maiden speech , I say that when I agree with a Member on the other side , I would say so in this House . I call out the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , who I believe do a good thing with the Windsor framework . after nearly 10 year of move away from the European Union , he take a practical step that lead to a serious improvement . I want to put that on the record , because I think it be important . this House often debate the most challenging and sensitive matter . in this Chamber last Friday , we see how a sensitive and intense debate base on conviction rather than dogma bring out the good in the House . that be why I have be look forward to this debate and to listen to the view of colleague of all political persuasion , and I hope I have do that . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim give the House a head - up on this Bill with his previous action . for example , the putative incompatibility of article 6 of the act of Union with the Belfast agreement be rule out on all count by the Supreme Court , as far as I be aware . I be sure member on both side of the Chamber will recognise that engagement with this debate be do in good faith , even where there be difference of opinion . I thank the hon . and learn Gentleman for his explanatory note on the Bill . I read they with interest , particularly paragraph 11 : " the purpose of the Bill be to provide Ministers with the power to make change to the operation of the Windsor Framework in domestic law , restore the cross - community imperative of the Belfast ( Good Friday ) agreement in respect of continuance of the Windsor Framework and to safeguard democracy , peace and stability in Northern Ireland . " in my view , this be effectively a reincarnation of the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill 2022 , which cause concern in so many quarter , domain and jurisdiction . the Government of the time acknowledge that there would be non - performance of their international obligation out of necessity . they say that they seek to reach a negotiate settlement with the European Union to forestall the need to invoke the concept of necessity . the previous Government subsequently withdraw the Bill , because they believe they have secure the necessary condition they seek , as set out in the UK - EU withdrawal agreement . therefore , the assertion on the use of the concept of necessity be never put to the test . I , for one , be pleased that it be not . if it have be , in my view and in the view of many other , we would have be on the road to perdition — there be no doubt about that . as I have say , this Bill be another iteration of the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill that would take we back to June 2022 and , once again , put the country in danger of breach its obligation under international law , notwithstanding what the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim say . the idea that the Bill can invoke the concept of necessity as a reason for a breach be beguile , but illusory . do the hon . Member not accept that a fundamental element of the jurisprudence of international law in this area be the requirement that any such agreement must not infringe the territorial integrity of either state ? that , patently , have happen . be this not the fundamental flaw in the international law argument ? it fall at the first prerequisite : that the territorial integrity of the state with which the agreement be be make must not be infringe . I do not want to go down that particular rabbit hole , but I will say this . we have the sovereign base in Akrotiri , in Cyprus . we negotiate that . be it a breach of the sovereign territory of Cyprus ? be it somehow wrong ? we negotiate it , we agree it , it exist and it be use , so I do not believe that it be a breach . it be possible to negotiate a range of matter . it could be say that an element of sovereignty be give away for a well , or a more comprehensive , capacity in another area . what the hon . Member seem to be say be that if the United Kingdom decide to acquiesce in — indeed , support — the infringement of its own territorial integrity , that be all right . if that be the basis , be it not all the more reason why the Government — a new government — of the United Kingdom ought to address this humiliating concession ? I do not think it be a humiliating concession , but if it be a concession at all , I think it be an attempt , give the circumstance that we face , to reach an agreement with trading partner in the light of the decision of the british people . we live in a world where we do not get everything we want . we live in a world where there be a little bit of give and a little bit of take , and sometimes we be able to give more than we take , and vice versa . as I have say , however , I do not want to go down that rabbit hole , because I do not think it be necessarily the subject of today ' s debate . we touch on it , and it be pertinent , but I do not think it should dominate the whole debate . there be no doubt that the subject be fraught with all the concern and anxiety and consternation to which I refer early , and we have to operate in the wide political environment and milieu in which country have to operate all the time . I think it only fair to point out that the law of unintended consequence may decide to poke its head around the door , and perhaps even to walk into the Chamber , and there will be nothing that we can do . that be the very nature of the issue that confront we . there be no easy solution . there be no easy answer to difficult question . there be no off - the - cuff response that will sort out the issue . that be a statement of the obvious . I very much like the image of the law of unintended consequence poke its head around the door . one thing that have occur to I during this debate be that we need , in Northern Ireland and Great Britain and the whole of our United Kingdom , to try to reduce the red tape that Brexit have introduce . one of the most important step that we could take be to enter into a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement with the European Union , but if we be to do that , we will need the EU to trust we , and to accept that if we negotiate with it and reach an agreement , we will stick by that agreement . be not the challenge , in the context of this particular Bill , that one of the law of unintended consequence might be that the EU simply will not engage in the discussion and negotiation that we need in order to proceed with those red - tape - reduce measure ? that be a perfectly valid point . clearly , the hon . Gentleman have have a sneak preview of the point that I will raise later on . I will take up that matter with my staff . it be important to recognise that those view be consider . I be sure that those view have be inform by many event , circumstance and long - hold political opinion , and by culturally hold view , which , in turn , have be inform by many personal and political experience — some constructive and positive , and other negative and traumatic . in justice to the debate , I be sure that member have attempt to bring if not a fresh perspective to it , then at least a perspective that take into account the view of other from across the Chamber . in this debate , the word " irrelevant " may itself become irrelevant , because we must face up to the fact that many of the point be make be not irrelevant , give the wide - range impact that any change to the law would have on internal and external relationship , both in a formal legal sense and informally , as my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) say . on trust , the Bill ask the House to abrogate our treaty obligation under the withdrawal agreement . that be worry . have give this some thought , I decide to look at the treaty landscape and the issue of necessity , which have be raise . that then set off the justified claim about the potential for abrogation , so it be a good place to start . the ecosystem around treaty go to the heart of the efficacy of partnership , relationship and — dare I use the word — trust between those who sign a treaty . this issue really go to the heart of the question of trust , belief or faith in what we say as a nation . I look to our fine playwright to set the scene — in fact , I go to scene four from Shakespeare ' s Henry VI , part 3 : " for trust not he that hath once break faith " . the concept of oath and promise be explore by William Kerrigan in his book , " shakespeare ' s Promises " . it be important to quote this , because it go to the heart of the matter . he write : " it be impossible to imagine any kind of moral life without obligation , and impossible to imagine obligation without type of promise . we be always up against they . before we ever reflect on what a promise be , we have make they and be expect to make more of they . we be bear into nation that enter into treaty and agreement . promise be with we like gravity . man be a promising animal . " I take my hon . friend back to his point about abrogate treaty , which be the modus operandi of the next United States President . such behaviour create instability in our international order , yet those support the Bill ask that we disestablish an agreement that provide stability , and that seek to address intractable issue , and ask that we fix those problem through relationship with such person . it be a fair point . the question we have to ask ourselves be this : if we agree to the Bill , be we in breach of faith and trust ? I think so . I do not say that lightly , or to be offensive or provocative . do the hon . Member think that there be such a thing as breach of trust when it come to relation within the United Kingdom ? be the citizen of this United Kingdom entitle to expect equal citizenship , and to be govern by law that their nation make , or be those thing secondary to tip our cap to the EU ? be that his stance ? my stance be that if a person do not trust I in a democratic environment , they be perfectly entitle to go down to the ballot box and put an x against my opponent ' s name , and I will respect they for do so . that be the way we do it in this country . many of we be passionate about equal right ; that be why we have concern about this legislation . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) would not engage on the subject of the impact that the Bill would have on human right in Northern Ireland . we all know about our democratic right . when we talk about equal citizenship , we be talk about the ability to be represent , about right be uphold , and about a right of remedy . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill would rip up those right in Northern Ireland by rip up article 2 of the Windsor framework ? the Bill would deny people in Northern Ireland right that his constituent and mine have , because we have recourse to the European Court of Human Rights if we feel that an overbearing government be breach our right . when it come to equal citizenship in the Union , we must reject the Bill to uphold the right of all . my hon . friend be right . I reject the Bill as respectfully as I can . country have to operate in an international rule - base system . that be the position that this country have take on many occasion , even when the consequence for we have be dire . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim talk about foundation . I do not want to undermine the foundation of the rule - base system , trust and good faith . that be what I do not want to breach . do the hon . Member not accept that trust in the United Kingdom be important ? the Belfast agreement make it clear that a promise be make to the people of Northern Ireland that there would be no change of any sort to our constitutional position unless they express a wish for it . the people of Northern Ireland have continually vote to be part of the Union . I know that the hon . Member be a Unionist . the Labour party fight hard to maintain the Union when scottish nationalist try to break away . do he accept that he have an equal obligation to unionist people in Northern Ireland — an obligation to stand by the promise that be make to they in an internationally agree settlement ? [ interruption . ] as my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) say from a sedentary position , the framework strengthen the Union . that be exactly the point that I would have make . I know that some people do not accept that , but I believe that it strengthen the Union . like a curate ' s egg , any treaty will have good and bad part for both side . we would not need treaty or agreement if we all agree about everything . the reality be that dissonance come with the territory . member on the Opposition Benches have talk a lot about cross - community support . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) mention a lack of consultation . be my hon . friend aware of whether there have be any cross - community consultation on the Bill ? my hon . friend may be in a much well position to say , but I suspect that this be the place where that consultation happen . we listen to the view of people , and we can reflect they in our observation . I want to continue on the theme of trust . dictator and autocrat consider treaty a sign of weakness , to be dispense with as soon as be practicable . in this country , we tend not to take that transactional and cynical approach . I be forever thankful for that . keep faith with a treaty or agreement that we have sign without duress say a good detail about our moral compass as a nation . have start on the issue of the importance of treaty , I want to look at one or two example of the 14 , 000 treaty to which this country be a signatory . [ interruption . ] no , I will not go into the treaty issue again , but I refer member to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s online treaty database if they wish to look up the treaty that this country have sign over the year — and yes , I do have a life . this country have have a good deal of experience in writing , agree , monitoring , enforce and advise on treaty . there be little that this country do not know about the history , implementation , negotiation , monitoring and abrogation of treaty . we may even be the place to go to get that advice . over the decade , this country have decide in good faith and with good intention to put its name , credibility and integrity up front by sign treaty to ensure that its national interest can are secure as far as be practically possible . we have century of experience of the pitfall , implication and consequence of a unilateral breach of a treaty . I ask colleague to hold that thought during the deliberation on this Bill . it go without say that serious , sometimes convolute , diplomatic manoeuvre and mental gymnastic be involve in agree the term of a treaty . that will come as no surprise at all to member — if it do , that would be surprising to I . one have to be careful before sign a treaty . that do not mean that one do not sign it , but once an agreement be reach , sign and ratify , it remain duly constitute until the treaty be renegotiate through the proper channel . do we really want to feel , as Sophocles say , that " no treaty be ever an impediment to a cheat " ? I do not believe we be cheat . Sophocles also say : " all man make mistake , but a good man yield when he know his course be wrong , and repair the evil . the only crime be pride . " I hope that the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim do not have too much pride . call I old - fashioned , but I be afraid that whether we like it or not , we have to negotiate a treaty or an agreement through the proper channel . I be impress by my hon . friend ' s knowledge of the classic . he make an important point , because it be almost as if we be be present with a false choice between rip up the Windsor agreement and set it in stone . it have already be show that the agreement can adapt and evolve , and it will continue to do so . my hon . friend make an excellent point : treaty be renegotiate all the time . yes , that can be messy — as I have say , we have a great deal of experience of how messy it be — but that have never stop we from do it , or attempt to do it , in good faith . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? the question we have to ask ourselves be whether the Bill before we be a breach of a treaty or agreement . I will leave that question in the air while I let the hon . Gentleman intervene . everyone in this House respect the hon . gentleman for his honesty , and for the way he have stand up for justice . in all the debate we have be in , in Westminster Hall or this Chamber , he have epitomise those who seek justice and honesty . however , in his contribution today , the right of the people of Northern Ireland , of Unionists and of all those who wish to have their right restore through this Bill have not be refer to . I ask the hon . Gentleman I know to take that on board , and to speak up for the people of Northern Ireland ; unfortunately , he have not do that so far . I regret that the hon . Gentleman take that view of what I be say . I would not say it be not fair , but I be genuinely try to be as conciliatory as I can be give the circumstance in relation to the question of trust . the question be this : be this Bill a breach of an agreement or a treaty ? in my view it be , and I think most people be not deny that assertion . there may be some people who do so , but as a House of Commons paper of 4 December say on page 17 : " no rule of a state ' s domestic law can be use to justify a breach of its exist international obligation . this principle be set out in Article 27 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties . " I genuinely believe that I be bind by that . we can caveat any breach of international law until the cow come home ; it can be claim that it be out of the concept of necessity as refer to before in term of international law . however , although we can claim whatever we want , it do not wash with other country with which we have negotiate , and that in a sense be all there be to that particular point . in pursuit of the hon . member ' s filibuster , he tell we how much he adhere to international law . why do he not adhere to the declaration and the principle of international law from the United Nations of 24 October 1970 , which say in very emphatic term that there be a duty in treaty " not to intervene in matter within domestic jurisdiction of any State " and that the principle of international law require respect for territorial integrity ? if those be the principle and the Windsor framework infringe on those principle , be it not the Windsor framework that be flawed , and not the declaration of fundamental principle ? no , I disagree . if I be be honest , I think that view be predicate on a fallacy . I do not want to use those word , as I be try to be as temperate as I possibly can be , but I believe the hon . and learn Gentleman be use that reference somewhat inappropriately . as I say , we can caveat any breach of international law that we like , but it come back to the question of what our partner or co - signatory think . it be worthwhile explore that concept in a little more detail , because it go to the heart of our responsibility as a custodian — I choose that word with care , for that be what we be — of international law , and not just in relation to any particular treaty , but in general term . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech and it be one that he and I have live and breathe as member elect prior to 2024 and indeed prior to 2019 , when the legislation at the heart of this matter be construct in this place . we be on the Opposition Benches at the time and we all have to look at the concept of international relation and what would happen because of the Brexit vote . it be strike that the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) promote this legislation talk as if that have never happen . we have be there before in all of this . there be no perfect solution ; that be part of the challenge that Brexit create for all of we . but in look at what we do next , understand that breach international protocol have consequence be as important as think about what we do when we breach those international protocol , as we do with Brexit . my hon . friend make a really important and fair point . we have to be very careful in this area when we have international obligation , and we have to be even more cautious when we be deal with the situation that we find ourselves in give the context of the Belfast agreement . I be draw to a close , member will be pleased to know , but it be worthwhile explore the concept in a little more detail , because as I say , it go to our position as a custodian . the circumstance in which we can depart from obligation be fairly clear : for instance , by mutual agreement — that be unsurprising — or imply right to withdraw . neither of those be the case in this situation . perhaps the hon . and learn Gentleman think they should be , but I do not believe that they be . can we say that the treaty or agreement be no long in place due to agree time limit or sunset clause ? the answer to that question be no . have the other side materially breach the treaty or the agreement , which would in turn absolve we of our obligation ? well , I do not think that apply either . what about our ability to carry out the agreement because of the " disappearance or destruction " of an object crucial to the operation of the treaty ? that get - out clause do not exist , either ; well , not that I be aware . in fact , the Windsor framework be protect by the Vienna convention on treaty , as be bring out during the statement that I refer to . the hon . member mention whether the other side have ever break the treaty . of course it do : the EU do so in a fit of pique , rage and vengeance against the United Kingdom during the covid crisis . it catch itself quickly , because it realise exactly what it have do , but the fact of the matter be , in the mind of the EU , the treaty be not as sacrosanct as he be try to make it out to be for the UK . he suggest that we should not even think about break the Windsor framework and the protocol . the EU , when it be convenient , have show that it will . I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s position , but again , I disagree with his assertion . will the hon . member give way ? just a moment . if the right hon . Gentleman wish to call a Westminster Hall debate in relation to a whole series of breach of treaty — [ interruption . ] I know that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) will be in his place for a Westminster Hall debate whoever secure it . if anyone want to secure a Westminster Hall debate to tease out those matter in a little bit more detail and in an atmosphere that be a little less fraught , I would be more than happy to be there either as the Chair or as a participate member . will the hon . member give way ? I be come to a close , but I will give way . I have find this subject to be crucial to the wide constitutional and democratic process of which we be all supportive . there be time when people be unhappy with decision , and I suspect that the hon . Gentleman will continue to be unhappy , so I will let he speak . it be not that I be unhappy , and I applaud the hon . member for the tone he have bring to the debate in opposition to the Bill ; it be that we want to see a resolution to these thing . he talk about break agreement and when trust be remove , which bring I back to my intervention about the Belfast agreement and how Lord Trimble say that the protocol " demolish the agreement ' s central premise by remove the assurance that democratic consent be require to change Northern Ireland ' s status . " I gently remind the hon . member of that persuasion . I be also remind of the contribution that Lady Sylvia Hermon make when she be in this place in challenge the former Deputy Prime Minister about the Belfast agreement . when he start to talk about it , she simply ask whether he have read it . I simply encourage any hon . member in opposition to the Bill to ensure that they have actually read the Belfast agreement before quote it . I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . I be go to quote from the Belfast agreement in detail , but I decide not to do so . I do read it , and I remember it at the time as well . I implore he not to push I on that matter . there be time when I have be unhappy with the decision make . I have be perplex when , during the Parliaments I have be part of , convention and understanding that have be in operation for decade be push aside for short - term political expediency . it be one thing to go down that path in the operation of the working of this House , but it be another to invoke that type of approach when deal with agreement and treaty , especially when those be with trading partner and neighbour . I be tempt to explore the Bill clause by clause — all 25 of they — in this contribution , but I resist — [ interruption . ] I do , and it be bear out of discipline and willpower . I decide not to test the patience of the Chair and hon . member on both side of the House . I will draw my contribution to a close , and hope that hon . member across the House take what I have say in good faith and without any rancour . I will respond in , hopefully , the same tone and say that it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) . I suspect there be a big prize for he wait in the Government Whips Office after this debate . he welcome every intervention go . I do not besmirch his character at all , but since he suggest that there be interest in the concern be raise by the Unionist community , I reflect that with almost two hour leave of a five - hour debate , I be the third speaker . score of Members from Northern Ireland on both side of the Chamber will probably not get the opportunity to make their point and represent their constituent , because of a quest to make sure that the Bill be talk out . I say , respectfully , that the hon . Member do exactly what he be ask to do , but when consider these issue , I be not sure just how constructive that will prove to be . the hon . Gentleman say in his remark that we will be able to deal with issue as time go by . I have watch " as time go by " on repeat on UKTV Gold , and I have watch people in this Chamber say that we will deal with these issue " as time go by " . here be an opportunity to engage in the concern that the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) raise , have receive support from across the Unionist spectrum in Northern Ireland to raise they . yet , as time go by , though it be say that we shall not be dismiss or demean in the position that we be put forward , that be exactly what be happen . I stand not only as leader of my party and my colleague , but as a co - sponsor of the hon . member ' s Bill . I commend he on the position that he have outline to the Chamber today and on his success in the private Member ' s Bill ballot . he be not a gambler — anyone who listen to he will know that he will put forward his principled position without fear or favour — but he take a chance and he have this opportunity . I commend he on do so in a collective and cohesive way that have allow for great co - operation not just from those in Northern Ireland , but from across the country . he should be commend for that . the hon . Member and I embark on this journey in the same position as we approach the 2016 vote . although over the intervene year there have be a few crossed path , a few cross word and the odd crossed sword , I suspect that it be good , fitting and encouraging for people at home that today we be speak with one voice about these issue . I say to the Minister and to the hon . member for Bootle that one of the good way to deal with the issue raise by the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim and I , and support by colleague in their own remark , be to honour agreement that have be reach . when the hon . and learn Member say in his remark that it seem as if the people of Northern Ireland be be ask to " suck it up , " the Minister say from a sedentary position — I hope she will not fall out with I for share this — " no , we fight to maintain the Union . " [ interruption . ] she be agree . however , whenever agreement be reach early this year , the " safeguard the Union " paper outline a number of stepping stone to a well place . the Minister and her colleague present vote in favour of that agreement . they recognise the recur issue in Northern Ireland , and the harm that those issue be cause the people of Northern Ireland and consumer , no matter the constitutional outlook . if constitutional principle be not share , it harm ordinary people in Northern Ireland . they vote for solution on an interim basis — a stepping - stone approach — to move these issue forward . where be we on that today ? what be the Government ' s position on eradicate routine check within the UK ' s internal market system ? they vote for it in this House back in February , and they do so because they recognise the constitutional implication that check be have and the practical frustration they be cause consumer in Northern Ireland . the right hon . Gentleman be address an important part of the Bill ' s purpose — from all the rhetorical issue right down to hard tack . the previous Government go into the negotiation on the Windsor framework because it have dawn on , and be agree by , the European Union that the protocol be not work . it recognise that nothing be fix ; these thing be about experience , and then temper that experience and change . Labour member keep say , " you ' ve reach an agreement and you will breach it , " but the real principle behind that be to recognise that there be still fundamental flaw , and that we could agree a well way to harmonise everybody in that respect . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman , and I be grateful to he for co - sponsor the Bill and be present today . he be right : the people who say in this or other debate that we can not change what be write in tablet of stone be of the very party that be , from 1998 , part of secure the Good Friday agreement , which be work on in a political way , with party in Northern Ireland , include my own , and change time and again through process at Leeds castle , the St Andrews agreement and the Northern Ireland ( St Andrews Agreement ) Act 2006 . the very argument that they be deploy against change ignore the fact that they have a history of do exactly the same thing — particularly on the Belfast agreement , which they often suggest be write in tablet of stone . let I quote someone from a small business that rely on supply from Etsy . they say : " I simply can not continue without this supply . my supplier have say that they can ' t understand the system and can ' t afford to look into this any far . therefore , I be cut off . I be have to give notice to my landlord . I be barely make end meet as it be - another business lose . " the Bill be an opportunity to retrieve that and every other business , which would help the economy in Northern Ireland to thrive and create job . the Government need to do something . that be a fair point , and illustrate the requirement to honour the agreement — support by the Minister and her labour colleague back in February — to eradicate routine check within the UK internal market system . do that deal with all the issue ? no , it do not . do it deal with what be in the red lane ? no , it do not . do it deal with the constitutional impurity of the overarching framework ? no , it do not . but be it a step forward ? do it remove the frustration of my constituent and those of the hon . member for Belfast South and Mid Down ( Claire Hanna ) , who do not share my constitutional outlook ? yes , it do , and it should have be deliver in October . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim have also include in the Bill aspect on custom and parcel — another commitment make back in February and support by the Labour Government . it be to be implement in October this year , but they delay it . the Minister and Members should know that we do not get overly exercise by the delay , because we recognise that it will be implement by the end of the financial year . however , owe to the practicality , the fact that attention be divert because of the general election and all the rest , it do not happen in October . it be happen , which be good , but it be be do in a way that recognise the overarching imposition that we have from relationship that be totally unnecessary . if the business run by the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be bring in thread , wool and feel from Etsy to make craft , I defy any Member to stand up and indicate how that will have a material impact on the integrity of the single market . I defy any Member to stand up and give I an example — other than from " the Lord of the Rings " — of where a tree have come from GB to NI and be plant , and have then get up and walk across the border . it do not happen , yet we be tell that send a tree from Stranraer to Belfast would destroy the sanitary and phytosanitary integrity of the single market . it be a nonsense . we be have to live with , and try to work through , the practical solution to the overarching imposition that this Parliament agree to , in spite of the concern raise by people like I who be here during the Brexit year , as the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) be . we raise concern , but we be ignore . so when people stand up in 2024 and say , " why be we still talk about an issue that start in 2016 ? " , it be because member on both side of the House do not listen to the warning , the concern , and the opportunity for compromise and agreement . moreover , in repeat the same approach today , we be store up great potential for frustration in the future . rise — will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way to the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , because I be give way to the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) . the right hon . Gentleman actually know that I have a lot of sympathy for his frustration , because none of we should ever say there be a perfect solution to the challenge that he present . that be always why many of we be concern about the idea of Brexit , but we know that Brexit have happen . once it happen , it create a series of problem . do he recognise that there be more than one way to skin the proverbial cat that he be set out , and that this legislation actually take we back to those old argument ? by work together in this United Kingdom Parliament , we could look at how we get a well SPS deal , and at how we deal with the problem that the border operating model have create , so that all our constituent can benefit . we can not go backwards ; Brexit have happen and create all these problem . those who advocate for it may wish to reflect on that , but we can go forward by try to tease out well solution . they will not be perfect , but they could be well . this legislation be not the solution , but I will offer a hand of friendship across the Chamber to find well solution , if he be game . I will not respond to the hon . Lady ' s last line ; I will leave it to other to determine . she and I have engage with each other — sometimes helpfully , and sometimes crossly — for year . when there be opportunity to work together to benefit my constituency or anybody else ' s in the United Kingdom , I will do it . what I be actually do at the moment be share agreement that be reach . she and her colleague vote for they , yet we be still wait for their implementation . let I give another one : an agreement outline in " safeguard the Union " require a labelling regime across the United Kingdom . the reason for that be that there be no cost implication or benefit for business in Scotland , England and Wales if they simply choose not to supply our market in Northern Ireland . we have hear every hue and cry from drink manufacturer and food manufacturer across the United Kingdom , who have say that this be costly and will cause they difficulty , yet Asda , Sainsbury ' s and Tesco simply put it on their good - before date line . it cost they nothing , but what do it ensure ? no divergence of trade within our own country . what do it ensure ? access to the Northern Ireland market and the removal of a disincentive . what have we hear ? the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have no interest in honour the very aspect of the agreement that Labour support back in February . it be now say , " yes , we will take the power , but we will not use it , unless — " . unless what ? it be repudiate a commitment from an agreement that it support , but it will not say what be the trigger point . at what point be it ok for it to step in ? at what point should Northern Ireland be disenfranchise before our sovereign Government and our sovereign Parliament will take step to protect the consumer interest of the people of Northern Ireland ? we do not know , but what we do know be that even when they have be prepare to engage in discussion that be of practical benefit to the people of Northern Ireland to resolve these issue — and Labour support those — there have not be full and faithful implementation . it be not govern by the Vienna convention , but we be not see that full and faithful implementation . my right hon . Friend say that even when solution be find , they be not implement . we have hear example of thing that people never imagine would be problem become problem . the fact be that every time a solution be find , because we in Northern Ireland be subject to law that be different from those in the UK , new problem arise . unless we deal with the fundamental issue , namely what be cause the problem , we will be continually look for solution and continually fight to get they implement , and that be not good either for business in Northern Ireland or for confidence in the Union . my right hon . friend be entirely correct . what have we achieve over the last five year ? a game , and not a very enjoyable game , of whack - a - mole , for it be about as strategic as whack - a - mole . an issue come up involve the vat margin scheme for second - car salesman ; we find a solution . then another issue pop up , and another , and another . Whack - a - mole ! that be the good strategic approach that this Government , and the previous Government , have adopt to deal with issue that be affect we because of the decision take back in 2019 . I remember the parliamentary discourse about the quest for agreement , but I know this . when the previous Prime Minister , Boris Johnson — [ interruption . ] just let I finish . no need for your wee quip . when Boris Johnson engage with this issue , in respect of the protocol , he go to the Wirral for a walkabout in a wedding venue with Leo Varadkar , and become smite with Leo . he ditch the democratic consent principle in section 4 ( 5 ) of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 to which the hon . and learn Gentleman have refer . it be always part of the precede arrangement that a consent vote in Northern Ireland would adhere to the consent principle in the Belfast agreement , and Boris Johnson ditch they . in " safeguard the Union " , there be a commitment to remove and repeal a legacy provision in section 10 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , on have due regard to an all - island economy — a commitment that Labour support , but now repudiate because it be in " safeguard the Union " . let I remind the House that it be only in " safeguard the Union " because it feature in the Windsor framework . much of the approach from the Government Benches seem to amount to " we can not achieve anything with the European Union unless we demonstrate our trust and our integrity — or our servitude ! — to the European Union . " paragraph 53 of the Windsor framework indicate very clearly that there be no need to have a legal due regard to an all - island economy that do not exist . anyone who stand up here today and talk about their full - throate support for the Windsor framework should read what paragraph 53 have to say about the all - island economy . it be a matter of fact that we do not have an all - island economy ; we have strand within our economy that operate on a cross - border basis in the context of two legal jurisdiction , two tax jurisdiction , two currency jurisdiction , two vat jurisdiction and two regulatory jurisdiction , unless cover under annex 2 of the protocol . we do not have an all - island economy . it be a superfluous piece of legislation that be draw out of the joint report from 2017 , and it should go . it should go because I say so ; it should go because it be agree under the Windsor framework , which be quickly forget and ignore . we have talk about article 2 in this debate . no one on this side of the Chamber be indicate that we should leave , through this argument , the european convention on human right , nor that we should replace the Human Rights Act 1998 , which embed those commitment in our domestic legislation . the argument be raise on article 2 of the Windsor framework be that what have be present as an international treaty , an agreement and a resolution on trade be impact and frustrate the ability of this sovereign Parliament because of how the court in Northern Ireland be interpret the provision on myriad area outside trade . immigration be a classic example . the hon . member for Walthamstow be right that we work on this and we talk about this , but let I be very clear : whenever I stand up in this Chamber on behalf of my colleague as our spokesman on home affair to say that I would not vote for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , it be not because I do not think there be an issue with immigration . I do . it be not because I be ill - prepared to support Government in their endeavour . I be prepared to do so . I say this in this Chamber and my colleague support I : it be because , though the Government say that the provision would apply in Northern Ireland , we be indicate that they would not . the very same people who tell I that the immigration legislation would apply in Northern Ireland launch a leadership campaign on the back of the argument I be make afterward . we be right , but it be wrong that a trading agreement should have any impact whatever on the ability of this sovereign Parliament to set a uniform immigration policy across the whole United Kingdom . it be wrong then , and I be glad that the Secretary of State on Wednesday night indicate that that be a ground of appeal that the Government be bring forward , because it be wrong . rise — I hope , if I agree to allow the hon . member for Walthamstow to intervene once more , and once more only , that she will agree that it be right to sort that issue , too . the right hon . Gentleman be right . he and I may disagree about how to resolve it though , which be what I want to ask he about so that I do not misunderstand he . that disagreement be about the right to remedy be remove from people in Northern Ireland seek asylum ; in other word , it be the right to petition to an external court to uphold your right . this Bill remove the domestic legal effect of article 2 of the Windsor framework and breach paragraph 1 and 2 of article 4 of the EU - UK withdrawal agreement , which require that individual be enable " to rely directly " on the provision of that treaty . do the right hon . Gentleman think that be right ? many of we believe that there be a libertarian argument for a third - party court to uphold the right of citizen , whether that relate to contract law and what they be sell or to their basic human right . be he say that his resolution be that the right for citizen to petition a third party to protect themselves against the Government should be remove from the people of Northern Ireland ? our judiciary be independent from the Government as well , as she know . at first instance , in the High Court in Northern Ireland , citizen can draw upon legal jurisprudence within the european system without need to go to the final arbitrary appeal of a third party . she know that . the hon . Lady and I have parse the course on many occasion . despite all the suggestion make by member , when challenge , that they be prepared to engage in the debate on this legislation or on the wide issue affect Northern Ireland seriously , earnestly and with a willingness to resolve problem , there have be an awful lot of giggle Gerties and Cyril Sneers across the Chamber . there have be an awful lot of dismissal of concern that have not be raise for the first time today — they have be raise on many , many occasion . it be not just immigration that have be encroach because of article 2 of the Windsor framework , but legacy , which be the basis on which the Secretary of State raise this issue on Wednesday night . the legacy of our troubled past be an important issue , and it have absolutely nothing to do with international trade or trade within our own country — yet here be a case predicate on article 2 of the Windsor framework , which be frustrate this Parliament ' s ability to legislate on that issue . that can not be right . [ interruption . ] be the hon . member for Belfast South and Mid Down seek to intervene , or be she just wave supportively ? I be agree with the right hon . member that the trade rule have nothing to do with the past . I be also hope to remind he that the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) , who speak before he and try to equate the murderous campaign of the IRA with the protocol , degrade everybody in this Chamber , and degrade every victim of that campaign . I respect the right hon . Gentleman , and he know that . I be sure he agree with I , and that he be as mortify as everybody I know hear that . I regard the hon . Lady as well , as she know . she have make that point now on two occasion , and she be free to do so . I want to come back to the SPS point that have be raise on a number of occasion . here I stand as a Unionist Member of Parliament from Northern Ireland , have engage on these issue for the past eight year , as have my colleague in this place , whether recently or over the same period of time — nobody sit behind I have a short political career than I do ; in fact , almost all have a much long political career . we have engage on these issue because we have be try to find solution that work for the people of Northern Ireland . sometimes that cause discord among we . sometimes the good tactical way of achieve that do not meet unanimity or agreement . I be share with member present that when we make progress and make achievement , we want to see they implement , and there be no trust or honour earn when those agreement be breach or not fulfil . we be invite to wait for an SPS agreement . I just want to be very clear that in a debate such as today ' s , on the Windsor framework and the EU withdrawal Bill that the hon . and learn Member have present , the Paymaster General should be here . the Paymaster General , who have be charge by the Prime Minister to engage with the European Union and resolve these issue , should be in this Chamber . I greatly respect the Minister present , but some of the issue be raise be for the Paymaster General . it be he who intend to go and secure this SPS agreement . let I say very clearly to Government Members who think that such an agreement be the answer to all of our problem : it be not . there be a world in which that process could provide solution and get equilibrium across the United Kingdom on SPS issue alone . however , nobody have yet say that that will see the removal of the overarching framework that be cause the imposition ; nobody have once suggest that once reach , all the legislative requirement and the constitutional and practical imposition would dissolve . nobody have suggest that , and that be problematic . the fact that the agreement would be a single solution for SPS and would not touch on any of the other area of law be problematic . however , what be most fundamental ? the Paymaster General know as well as I do that the European Union do not see this process conclude within the next two or three year . I do not think it be appropriate or acceptable for the people of Northern Ireland to wait so long . the Paymaster General have not indicate what the content of his agreement should look like , nor the content he would like to achieve . I understand that this week — only this week , some six month into government — he have write to the devolved administration ask for idea as to what that process would look like ; only this week , six month in , for a key plank of the Government ' s approach to reset their relationship with the EU . that be simply not acceptable . I have be listen carefully to the right hon . member . I come here today because of the harm that the botched Brexit deal have do to my community , and because of my fear for what this Bill would do to those community and the economy in the centre of London . he talk about the frustrating delay in implement some of the solution that he believe could make a difference , but I be confused about why he and the Bill ' s supporter think that go back so many year , as the Bill propose , would actually help to make progress on the many issue that I think all member — even on the Labour Benches — still believe need to be fix . the right hon . Gentleman support the Bill , so will he explain why go back might help we to move forward on some of the area where we think there need to be progress ? this Bill do not take we back . if we be interested in build trust and reset our relationship with the European Union , why be it not conceivable that we could get to a place where we respect one another , acknowledge one another ' s purity of legal service and legal system , and recognise the importance of the rule of law and the ability to mutually enforce standard with one another ? why be that so inconceivable ? why be it possible for the European Union to outline a system that allow good to move from the Republic of Ireland through Northern Ireland and into GB without any border check , but not the other way around ? why ? will anyone stand back and ask themselves whether all of this , with the attendant hassle and constitutional impairment , be necessary or worth it ? it can not be sustain , neither practically nor pragmatically . the imposition be not require . we start this journey in a place of equilibrium on standard . when we leave the European Union , our standard and theirs be exactly the same . mutual enforcement be not mythical then , and it be not magical now . there be no reason why I can not conceive a solution base on a reset of relation , if necessary , and a rebuilding of trust so that mutual enforcement be the well answer . if the Bill be talk out , as seem almost inevitable give the attitude of Labour Members , the Prime Minister have indicate that he will speak with representative of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland in the next few day . if the Labour Government be say , " yes , there be an opportunity to make progress and , yes , there be difficulty to be resolve , " do my right hon . friend agree that there be an opportunity in the next few day for the Prime Minister to tell we exactly what he be go to do if Labour member do not support the Bill ? I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend . I want to give the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) another example . she will have hear colleague in intervention , she will have hear the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) at Prime Minister ' s question and she will have hear I at Northern Ireland question raise the issue of the general product safety regulation that come into force next Friday . what be the good answer we have from the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland ? " we be in discussion . " what do we hear from Labour member ? " it ' s in train . " information should have be give to business long before next Friday , but have I ever hear a Labour Member say , " actually , in January 2024 , the Conservative Government extend the February 2023 agreement to adhere to the requirement and standard of EU safety marking — the CE marking on good — and general product safety " ? why be we in a situation where our government — the last government , but still our government — agree to adhere to EU standard on general product safety , only to find that , come next Friday , it will all be too problematic for GB business to trade with a part of the United Kingdom ? it be wrong . it should not be the case , and it be not at all satisfactory that we be talk today about the aspiration to have a solution when this come in on Friday . business should already have the information . do my right hon . friend not find it even strange that for product move from the Republic of Ireland into GB , the Government rush to find an accommodation ? only last week , the Minister tell we that she be totally satisfied that check away from the border would be perfectly suitable because producer in the Republic of Ireland be get concerned about access to the GB market , yet our Government can not find any urgency for facilitate the movement of product from GB to Northern Ireland . my right hon . friend be right . that be where it become thoroughly obnoxious for people in Northern Ireland . they say , " whatever the constitutional view be , and whatever the labour position on this and the conservative position on that , why be I be impinge on ? why be I be treat differently ? if a workaround be available that allow good from the Republic of Ireland into the GB market , why be there not one for I ? " . when we talk about market access and the UK internal market system , we be in principle talk about a marketplace — somewhere to both buy and sell , where trade flow in both direction . however , when Government member talk about market access , they all too often consider one direction only , and not the implication for business in Northern Ireland . I will conclude with a point about the democratic scrutiny mechanism and the vote that be due on Tuesday . the arrangement be a complete inversion of the commitment that be give in the Belfast agreement . they be bring forward follow Boris Johnson ' s bedazzlement with Leo Varadkar in the Wirral . the protection that be offer to the people of Northern Ireland be strip away in haste as a result of that political union . it have leave we in a position where , even though cross - community support will not be attain , article 5 to 10 of the Windsor framework will continue . there be a strong argument , which other have make , that we should not countenance that process with our presence , but as I say at our party conference in September and since , we will be there on Tuesday . if the vote proceed , we will vote against the continue application of the Windsor framework , in the knowledge that if we demonstrate our opposition , we will not leave anybody on other Benches or in the European Union with the chance credibly to argue , " they weren ' t even interested enough to vote — they didn ' t even turn up . " with our vote and our voice , we will demonstrate our opposition to the continued application of the framework . I commend the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) for his Bill . it be disappointing that I will not get to make a speech on it ; I trust that you will show I a little leniency , Madam Deputy Speaker , in my intervention as I have deliberately not jump up and down during other ’ speech . do my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) agree that those in this House underestimate at their peril the damage cause by the current arrangement ? Unionism be reel at the fact that our mother Parliament have sacrifice and continue to sacrifice Northern Ireland on the altar of political expediency . Unionism have have enough . business and consumer have have enough . they can not get plant , seed or tree from GB . they can not bring in farm machinery , just because it may have british soil on its wheel . they can not bring seed potato from Scotland . all tradition in Northern Ireland — Order . I think the hon . Lady have make her point . I call Gavin Robinson . I acknowledge the position that my hon . friend outline in her contribution . I wish it be not the case that so few member will get to contribute . indeed , I arrange for my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) to lead for my party on the Bill — but he decide that I should — because I want to ensure that people get the opportunity to contribute . just as we make our point today , we will make it on Tuesday . I encourage other Unionists to vote with we . it will trigger a review that I think will be important ; I hope that it will not be dismiss in the way that the concern be raise today or in the past be be dismiss by member here . the review will take evidence and suggest how the arrangement may change . the purpose of Intertrade UK and the independent monitoring panel be to provide an evidence base for we to draw on when the review be trigger , but another aspect of the Government ' s inability to honour the commitment they enter into back in January and February be that their reluctance and lethargy mean that that information will not be available . that be a shame . it be a complete shame that the work be put in to make sure that we could have these discussion in a robust , evidence - base and honourable way , but the information simply will not be available . I wish the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim well with his Bill . he know the frailty of the private Member ' s Bill process , and we do not know where the Bill will end up , but the issue raise and the principle engage , and the imperative to keep work at this properly , to the benefit of the people of Northern Ireland in our United Kingdom , will not be diminish today , and they will not go away . I do not intend to speak long ; that will allow other to get in , but it be primarily because we have speak about this issue morning , noon and night for much of the past eight year and because Northern Ireland in general want to move on . the heart of people at home be sink at the prospect of go back in time , of our heading like a demented moth towards the hard Brexit flame , and of our reopen debate from a time that be so destructive to our public service and our economy . that be a time when our economy , our job and our crumble health service be put on the back burner while we indulge in year of discussion about sausage and smoky bacon crisp . we remember the menacing rally that accompany those discussion , and the way the Northern Ireland Assembly be hold down . the people I represent do not recognise the " Mad Max " scenario that member continue to paint in which there be a lack of food and other product on our shelf . that be not the reality that people be live in . I do not want to relitigate all that have happen since 2016 , but it be fair to say that Brexit sharpen all the line that the Good Friday agreement be design to soften around identity , sovereignty and border . it be a fact that have not really be mention — I be not a majoritarian person — but Northern Ireland very clearly reject Brexit in 2016 . in the eight subsequent election , in increase number , it have support party and candidate who have seek to put mitigation in place . my party and I will stand by every decision we take in those year . in this Chamber , the other Chamber and the medium , we beg Unionist Members not to make this a winner - take - all scenario , not to follow Boris Johnson down yet another blind alley , not to take the assurance that they be be give . in all those time , there be not a whisper about consent , consensus or cross - community affair . many of the people I deal with see the implementation difficulty . Brexit be entirely a project about trade friction , and it have create friction for many people . those people , include small business and the people I represent , absolutely want to address those issue . they want to streamline process and to use the framework provide to solve problem . they do not want to tear down the edifice of the solution , as the Bill would do . in fact , last week , the Northern Ireland Assembly , as Unionist Members will know , endorse my party ' s proposal for move forward — proposal not to rejoin the European Union , not to cancel Brexit , not to reopen all those wound , but to look to the future , so that our voice be hear in decision making , and to try to grab every single economic opportunity that come our way , east and west , and north and south . my party and the people who oppose Brexit have never try to make people choose between trade and possibility in either direction . we believe that we have be hand some lemon by Brexit , but we be ready to make lemonade . the lengthy opening speech by the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim will do nothing to allay the fear of many of my constituent that at its heart , this be about repudiate right and harden the rule on movement of people and good , north and south . it feel to many people that that be what he be attempt to do , as well as to bring in the legacy of the past . it appear that the hon . Member have not be listen . the whole focus of my speech be on how we give back right to the people of Northern Ireland and sort out our trade across the border , not the opposite . she have a rich heritage of advocate for cross - community issue . I have two question , if she will address they . first , do she think that the decision on Tuesday in the Assembly be key , in that the Assembly will say for the next four year , " we be prepared to accept whatever law from Brussels , even law we do not even know about yet " ? secondly , if it be a key decision , why should it not be take on a cross - community basis ? of course I be listen . I do listen , and as the hon . and learn Member say , I try to find consensus , but people be force to listen , because — for whatever reason — large part of the medium have indulge this argument for many year . he know that he have have an outsized platform in the medium . we have listen and try to resolve this issue . as I have state very clearly numerous time over the past eight year and in the past few minute , unfortunately , no consent for Brexit be seek or give . that decision be not afford the luxury of be cross - community , so we have to protect the mitigation through a majority vote as well . as I say , everybody want to solve the problem , but I do not hear any solution . we get more of the magical sovereignty dust , the Henry VIII power , and suggestion that some future Minister will come up with some solution that have not appear in the past eight year . this be about solve problem , Jim ; that be what people elect we to do . order . I will tell the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim that our constituent elect we not to mine grievance , or to use the protocol as a receptacle for every bit of frustration about progress and the modern world , but to solve the problem that be before they . that be all that be leave for we to do , calmly as leader and as neighbour — to work through the challenge , streamline the process , find workaround and accept the honour of compromise . we get Brexit , which a lot of we do not want , but we be also get the protection to help mitigate it and reconcile it with our politic and our geography . I say this early , and will say it again : hundred of thousand of we constitutionally compromise every day , because we be democrats and because we accept the principle of consent and the framework that most people in Northern Ireland want . there be , if not rejoice , certainly respect for the fact that the Democratic Unionist party appear to accept that in February , when it bring back the Assembly and agree to work through these solution , but it continue to rankle with people that constitutional compromise be expect of those of we who be not Unionists , but will not be tolerate by those who be . let we move forward — that be what the people have consistently ask we to do in eight election , and it be what the Assembly ask we to do last week . let we grab the opportunity . yes , dual market access be not perfect , but we have hear from business time and again that the first thing they want from we be stability . I be beg member opposite to ensure that stability , and not to tear down the structure that it have take eight year for we to create . I do not believe the electorate will forgive you if you do that . " he " , not " you " . I call Sir Iain Duncan Smith . I will try to be as brief as possible , to allow other to speak . I wish to come to what the Bill be actually about , rather than what people say it be about , but first I want to dispel the idea that it would mean go backwards . the idea of mutual enforcement in fact originate , as other have say , in the EU itself at the time . it come from those who be tasked , as senior official — british and other — to come forward with a solution , before the end of the Brexit debate and so on , with an alternative way to make the border work and to take the heat out of what later become really quite powerful and end up with a government literally unable to move any motion at all and have it succeed . I have personal experience of this issue because , when there be a break in the negotiation between the UK Government — who handle it pretty badly at the time , by the way — and the Commission , I manage somehow to get a team of people together to go and see Monsieur Barnier directly . we sit at a table with all his negotiator , and a few of our who be there , and we talk through the principle . this be before mutual enforcement become a concept , but we talk about what already exist in the EU with other from outside the EU and inside the EU , and how they trade . we end up reach very much the same conclusion as originally reach by Sir Jonathan Faull and other : that mutual enforcement be the well deal . Monsieur Barnier agree with we . at the end of that agreement — I can see he follow I out as I put my coat on — he say , " the principle behind any chance of this be agree be that we must have trust . without trust , we can not have an agreement . " the sad part about it be that when I come back to the UK to speak to my government , they do not want to take any interest in that as a departure . they have already get bogge down in other area . sadly , two week later , what actually happen be that the Government go back in and carry on with their complicated and hopeless negotiation , without first set out the principle of what they want . I think Monsieur Barnier be open to that and I think the EU want mutual enforcement . at that stage , there be no question about weaponise the border ; it be about how we could reach an agreement . we could have do much more then , and I still today think that this idea be it . the Bill , then , be not about go backwards in the sense that it destroy what we have do ; it actually say something about what we have do so far in two stage . the protocol , it seem to I , could only ever have be temporary , and the Windsor agreement , which I do not support , open up the negotiation again , which be good , but the ask be so limited , and in some way rather restrictive , that we have end up with the principle be there , but the practical bit do not work . that be the moment when we should have use the opportunity to go back into mutual enforcement . what be so wrong about that ? the EU already use the principle in its dealing with other country . as I say in an intervention early , the classic example be New Zealand . the EU trust the New Zealand veterinary officer — particular key one , but they trust they all once they be register — to say whether certain foodstuff be , under SPS rule , package properly and agreeable under the EU rule . they be trust to say that EU rule be meet . that be a critical component . when those foodstuff be ship and arrive at Rotterdam , most often it come up on the computer and they be wave through . any check that have to take place in Rotterdam for non - EU country take place 30 km behind the border , and they be spot check just in case something have happen en route or something else have change on the way . in other word , thing move smoothly through . but such arrangement be not agree in the various agreement here . eventually , in try to draft this idea together , I sit down with other to try to figure out how we could make mutual enforcement work . I give credit to the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) for have bring forward the Bill , because it give we a chance to debate the matter . I know very well what go on in this Chamber and I know only too well how friday work , and the sad part be that if the government do not want to have any further debate on something , they arrange for it to be talk out . it have happen on both side ; cynicism exist on all side . I understand that . lot of people will have come in , particularly from London because they be close , and they will do what they have to do to talk this out . the Bill be not go to get through ; I never expect it to . [ interruption . ] honestly , do not object ; Government member know very well that that be exactly what happen . some will be here because they believe in something — I look across at my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) — but the majority be not . therefore , let we just understand fundamentally what we could have be discuss and what the current Government could now be engage in ; they could be talk to the EU about change these arrangement . the current arrangement be damage relationship and cause issue around Northern Ireland . we know that ; nobody be argue that that be not the case . if we have such problem that affect the constitution and the smooth running of business both in Northern Ireland and the wide United Kingdom , then surely any Government would want to make sure those be settle . it be not a polemic , it be not a right or left wing thing to do ; it be call practical governance to try to figure out how this work . I do not agree with my government when they bring forward the Windsor agreement in its final stage , and I vote against it . I vote against it because I think they have lose a real opportunity . the EU have accept that its imposition early on do not work and it have to change it , but what we end up with be a de minimis change which do not solve the problem ; in fact some of they have get bad . when we strip out all the politic , the key component be that mutual enforcement require each side to make reciprocal legal commitment to each other and to enforce the rule of the other with respect to trade across the border . in other word , we would accept that where our exporter export to the EU , we be responsible if they breach EU regulation . so if the EU say a company or individual be export good in breach of the term of its trade , the UK Government will take the responsibility to proceed against they , and vice versa for the EU . that do not require no border , because there have always be a border in Northern Ireland ; we just do not want a hard border . that be always the issue . People talk about border , but they mean a hard border . I have some experience of that when I have to man one of the checkpoint there when I be send to Northern Ireland . I hate do it , but that be a hard border . we do not want a hard border and mutual enforcement obviate the need for a hard border . border will exist , and we talk about that in term of currency and vat . on this mythical hard border , do the right hon . Gentleman agree that it would be impossible to implement such a thing for any land border of 300 mile with 280 crossing point , and that the process we be embark upon be try to get a two - way flow of trade that obviate the need for any of those check anywhere on the border ? the real point be get rid of the irish sea check ; it be anathema that one part of the United Kingdom be now treat separately from the rest of the UK . that be surely a reasonable idea and if it be in this Bill then the Government should want to take it through to the next stage and debate it . this be what the Bill do . mutual enforcement do not of itself remove custom duty ; neither do it harmonise or require mutual recognition of standard . it work by invert the usual approach to customs enforcement ; duty may , for example , be impose for anti - dump reason or due to subsidy that one party claim be injurious to itself or to company as a result of good fail to qualify for zero duty under rule of origin . that be what the Bill do . all the rest that have be talk about be not in this Bill ; it be very simple and very practical . the trade and co - operation agreement between the EU and the UK already have an agree mechanism , which be very important for identify and address these distortion . if we be able to allow that and make change , that be how it will work . there be other area , too , which I will speed through as quickly as possible . mutual enforcement can also under these term accommodate the collection of custom duty . the detailed procedure be obviously beyond the scope of briefing paper and the Bill , but the reality be that we could have a system whereby an order of good from the UK to the Republic of Ireland trigger a UK export declaration and an EU import declaration such that in term of the EU ' s custom datum any sum owe be put into the good invoice and pay by the importer to the exporter . there be many other way ahead that can be facilitate , particularly now that almost all of this be do use modern technology , not large sheathe of paper and with a man stand at the border with a ladle to check whether the brandy be import or export taste like brandy . that do not happen any long , but from some of the debate it would seem somehow we have not move on from 17th - century custom requirement . to ensure compliance with this regime , a penalty in this arrangement would apply to those party who fail to follow the procedure . the penalty would apply to both exporter and haulier , therefore incentivise all party involve in the carriage of good to ensure that appropriate EU custom duty be pay . by the way , the same would be require in the Republic for its importer . it should be note — this be the important bit that have go missing — that an analogous system would in any event be require for the red and green lane approach prescribe in the Windsor framework . be this go back ? no . it be use what we have and ultimately make it well . that seem to I the practical principle behind this idea of mutual enforcement . we should have start in this place , but we now have an opportunity to look at this issue and decide if there be a well way to do it that will take some of the good stuff already there and improve it by say to the EU that we want a smooth process between the EU and the UK , because everything else then follow . many EU member already agree ; I have hear their discussion . I can not remember who it be , but somebody get up and say , " do we not think they be ally ? do we not think they be friend ? " it be because we think they be ally and friend that we want to get rid of the thing that make we have row and argument about the most practical issue that could be deal with . that be the point of this mutual enforcement process : to get rid of the ludicrous argument about who we be and who they be . we can then be very good ally and friend , which we be and will need to be over the next few year , as we enter arguably the most dangerous time that I can remember . I have a point for the Government . give that almost identical rule apply in the EU and the UK , the EU could , and arguably should , negotiate an SPS equivalence agreement with the UK , as it have do for country as far away as Canada and New Zealand , as I have say before . give the right hon . member ' s experience of international affair , what do he think be the prospect for the present arrangement ? be they an incentive or a disincentive to secure a trade deal with the United States of America ? I think the hon . and learn Member might tempt I down that road . whether we have a trade deal with the United States of America be way beyond my paygrade . no Government I could ever join would ever have I , so on that basis I will answer from my own perspective . yes , there be a change in Administration in America . I understand one thing , because I negotiate a trade deal with the incoming President of the United States , about which I have never quite tell the full story . it become very clear to I in those discussion that he want a trade deal , more than anything else , with the United Kingdom , and he say so . how we go about that be a complicated issue . there be an easy way to do it , through what be call sector - by - sector trade arrangement , which be agree before move on to the next area . that be make more difficult by the arrangement in which , somehow , part of the United Kingdom now seem to be partly inside the EU . that make it difficult for they to understand whether any good and so on would slip through into the EU . that will cause a problem — it be not my place to say whether it be insurmountable , but these be unnecessary difficulty . however , if we have mutual enforcement , that would not be the case . it would be very clear at that point that that would actually be a very good basis for a trade deal with the United States to smooth our arrangement with they . they be our big trading partner and , ironically , unlike the EU , one that we have a surplus with and not a deficit of some significant degree . I end on this point . in term of what have happen over the last 30 or 40 year , there be big , deep gulfs and divide over anything that touch on Northern Ireland and its relationship with the UK and the rest of Ireland . I come here to look at the practicality of a well way to sort out the trading relationship that leave Northern Ireland as a solid part of the United Kingdom . yes , it have a special place , because it be the one land border that we have with the EU , but that do not mean to say that we should treat it differently in term of its arrangement with we here in Parliament . my worry be that we set those insurmountable problem ahead first and , at the end , we then do nothing . we could achieve this change . if the Government have their way , they would take all the bit from the agreement and try to discuss and implement they with the EU . the EU know that that would not work . it be time to make some change . just talk out the Bill help no one . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak in this debate . I also thank the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) for introduce the Bill . I listen with interest to some of the point make by Opposition Members , particularly the word of the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who suggest that there be attempt to talk the Bill out . the only people who appear to be attempt to talk the Bill out be the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim and the right hon . member for Belfast East , and they do a very good job of it . it have become increasingly clear in this debate that the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim have no interest in progress the Bill . he know that it be unworkable and have no intention of its ever become law . what he be do today be purely and simply political posturing for nakedly electoral reason . I be interested and slightly amuse to hear the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim refer to his interest in ensure equality and equal access to citizenship for all the citizen of Northern Ireland . I wonder if he feel the same way about extend access to equality and citizenship when it come to reproductive right for the woman of Northern Ireland and the right to equal marriage for people in Northern Ireland . I do not recall he be as vociferous at that time . I be interested to hear from the Member from South Acton — I mean South Antrim . apology — I represent an area very close to Acton , as my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton ( Dr Huq ) know . the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) ask whether Labour Members have read the Good Friday agreement . back in 1998 , as a very young woman , I recall vividly buy the newspaper that print the full Good Friday agreement , lay it out on the floor of my bedroom at the time and read through it clause by clause . for I , and for the people of Northern Ireland , the Republic of Ireland and all the United Kingdom , it be such an important and joyous occasion to see that agreement come to fruition . that joy be properly experience if one watch the final episode of " Derry Girls " , when Orla dance through the street of Derry on her way to register to vote in favour of peace in Northern Ireland . what a contrast that moment of joy be to some of the word that we have hear from Opposition Members today , which have be less about forge a prosperous future for Northern Ireland and more about rake up the argument of the past . today we find ourselves revisit old grievance rather than push for progress . the Bill drag we back into the quagmire of dispute that be settle through the Good Friday agreement and the Windsor framework — painstakingly negotiate and endorse as a solution that work for Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be afraid that the hon . and learn Member have have sufficient time to speak today . the Bill be an attempt to undermine the very foundation and underpinning of the Good Friday agreement . it risk create far more issue than it claim to solve . give the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ' s electoral pact with Reform UK , I would have think he would be happy to get Brexit do , yet here we be renegotiate 2019 , stick in an endless " Groundhog Day " of Brexit debate . while the hon . and learn Member look backwards , this Government be look forwards to a stable , prosperous and peaceful Northern Ireland . let I look at the most fundamental concern about the Bill . at the heart of it lie a blatant disregard for the United Kingdom ' s obligation under international law . clause 3 show that the legislation seek to disapply key element of the Windsor framework . this be not a matter of abstract legal principle ; it strike at the very core of the UK ' s credibility as a nation that honour its commitment . the Windsor framework be the result of year of painstaking negotiation design to balance Northern Ireland ' s unique position post Brexit . for the UK unilaterally to disregard its provision would be not only a breach of trust with our european partner but a dangerous precedent that could have profound consequence for our future trade agreement and alliance . it would be not just a technical breach but a move that would erode trust in the UK ' s ability to uphold our agreement , and international partner be watch closely . the message that the Bill would send if pass be clear . how can we expect to secure future trade agreement or maintain our standing on the global stage when member of this House seek so readily to abandon the commitment we have make ? instead , the Government have ground themselves in respect for international law . only by stick to our word can we rebuild this country ' s reputation , which be trash by the previous Government ' s shocking decision to break international law in " specific and limited " way . let we be clear : we either abide by international law or we do not . it be not an à la carte menu where we can pick or choose . the Government understand that , and that be why we will be stick to our agreement . the economic implication of the Bill be just as troubling . under the Windsor framework , the at - risk , not at - risk test provide a clear and workable solution allow for the smooth movement of good between Great Britain and Northern Ireland while protect access to the EU single market . by remove that mechanism and replace it with undefined alternative model , the Bill would introduce huge uncertainty . such a lack of clarity would create significant operational challenge , leave business without a road map for compliance . the small and medium - sized enterprise that drive Northern Ireland ' s economy would be particularly damage as the Bill would disproportionately burden they . my hon . friend be make a powerful point about trade . do she agree that the ripple effect from disapplye the Windsor framework would hit all of we , include constituency such as mine that be look forward to the Government ' s priority of reset our relationship with the EU and find practical solution on , for example , a veterinary agreement , which would help deal with some of the problem that Opposition member have raise and on which we have have some degree of consensus in the House today ? my hon . friend make a good point . I be focus on business in Northern Ireland , many of which lack the resource to implement the dual tracking system for good destine for different jurisdiction . they would be place at a significant competitive disadvantage . the Windsor framework have provide Northern Ireland with dual market access . that be a unique and valuable advantage that no other part of the UK enjoy . it have enable Northern Ireland ' s economy to remain one of the strong perform post - Brexit . business have adapt to the framework ' s provision , and over 9 , 000 firm be now register with the UK internal market scheme . the Bill , however , would throw all of that progress to the wind . it would deter investment and create further trade barrier , undermine Northern Ireland ' s status as an attractive place to do business . for small and medium - sized enterprise already operate on tight margin , the additional cost and administrative burden could be devastating . after year of decline under the Tories , these business need certainty , stability and support , not a chaotic and fragmented regulatory landscape that would leave they scramble to comply with conflicting rule . the people and business of Northern Ireland deserve well than what the Bill propose . I turn to the critical issue at the heart of the Bill in clause 19 , which would alter the consent mechanism for article 5 to 10 of the Windsor framework , replace the current system of simple majority vote with a requirement for cross - community support , as lay out by the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim . while such a measure may appear on the surface to strengthen democratic buy - in , in reality it would risk paralyse decision making and undermine the delicate political equilibrium establish by the Good Friday agreement . the hon . member talk about undermine the delicate political balance . we be tell that that be solve by the Belfast agreement . it be the Belfast agreement that decreed that , for every key decision , there should be a cross - community vote , yet this be a key decision and the cross - community vote be to be abrogate . where be the respect in what she be say in term of the efficacy of the Belfast agreement or of this vote ? let we look at the intent behind the exist democratic consent mechanism . the Windsor framework carefully design the process to ensure that the people of Northern Ireland , through their elect representative in the Assembly , have a say in whether the key provision of the framework continue to apply . by allow a simple majority vote , the framework ensure that the democratic will of the Assembly could be express efficiently and effectively . that system reflect the reality of a power sharing arrangement , where decision making can already be complex and contentious . clause 19 propose a significant and disruptive shift . by require cross - community consent in the Northern Ireland Assembly — a majority of Unionist and nationalist representation — the Bill introduce a mechanism that grant de facto veto power to either community , and Opposition Members know that . that risk create scenario where no decision can be reach at all , with no explanation in the Bill for whether the Windsor framework would continue under such circumstance . such provision invite obstruction and brinkmanship on a critical issue . the hon . Member be counter what she say early about have read the Good Friday agreement . obviously she have not understand it , because that cross - community consent have be central to the protection that be apply in the Belfast agreement at the start to ensure minority concern be protect . that be the purpose of it . what she be say in regard to the change from five to 10 on remove cross - community support and consent undermine the principle of the Belfast agreement , which my party pay so much for . we disagree on that point , but I reiterate that I have read the Good Friday agreement from cover to cover . the introduction of a cross - community requirement would only place enormous burden on the Assembly , which have already struggle to function effectively in recent year . add another layer of complexity to the Assembly ' s decision - make process risk far entrench the situation , make it even hard to deliver for the people of Northern Ireland . we must also consider the message that the provision send to the people of Northern Ireland . by impose additional barrier to democratic decision making , the Bill risk foster a sense of disenfranchisement and disillusionment among the electorate . how can we expect the people of Northern Ireland to place their faith in the Windsor framework if institution be be deliberately hamstring by measure design to perpetuate stagnation rather than to promote co - operation on this vital issue ? the Windsor framework be carefully design to strike a balance between compete interest . this Bill , by contrast , undermine that delicate balance , replace pragmatic solution with political posturing that serve no one . there be an absence in the Bill of a clearly articulate framework to replace the exist regulatory mechanism establish by the framework . under the current system , Northern Ireland operate within a dual regulatory sphere , give it unique access , as I say . that arrangement , while complex , have provide a measure of certainty for business . they know which rule apply , how to comply with they and the benefit of adherence . the Bill remove critical aspect of the exist framework . that would create a vacuum , leave business and regulator alike with more question than answer , and the result uncertainty would of course threaten Northern Ireland ' s prosperity . that be before I get on to the fact that there be no clear timeline for the implementation of the Bill . it provide no road map , no phase implementation plan and no transitional support for affected party . the Bill would therefore only create a chaotic environment in which business must prepare for the unknown , potentially lead to disruption , delay and financial loss . for small and medium - sized business that lack the resource to navigate complex regulatory shift , the consequence would be devastating . the regulatory uncertainty create by the Bill be not a minor oversight ; it be a fundamental flaw that undermine its viability . far from be a technical adjustment , the Bill be a destabilising force . at its core , it flagrantly disregard the principle of international law and the commitment that the United Kingdom solemnly make under the Windsor agreement . but perhaps the most frustrating aspect be that the Bill represent a colossal miss opportunity . Northern Ireland be uniquely position to thrive as a bridge between the UK and the EU , leverage its dual market access to attract investment and drive growth . the Windsor framework , while not perfect , be a pragmatic solution that provide the stability and predictability necessary for that unique position . instead of build on that foundation , the Bill try to tear it down , replace a function system with chaos and division . it prioritise short - term calculation over long - term economic and social stability . Northern Ireland deserve well than this . its people , business and institution deserve a Government who legislate responsibly , with foresight and care , rather than rush forward with reckless and ill - conceive measure . this House have a duty to legislate responsibly , to weigh the long - term consequence of our action , and to uphold the principle that underpin our democracy and our international commitment . this Bill fail on all count . it be not simply flawed ; it be fundamentally unfit for purpose . I urge colleague to reject this legislation and demand a more thoughtful , inclusive and workable approach to address the challenge face Northern Ireland . let we act not out of political expediency but out of genuine commitment to the people , business and institution that rely on we to get this right . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to be call in this debate — and nice to have an opportunity to stand up . it be also nice to see such enthusiasm for this subject from Labour Members , and I can see how disappointed many of they be not to have be call in this debate . there be so many thing that one might say about the extremely interesting Bill introduce by the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) . we know that it will not progress , as Labour Members intend to talk it out , but I want to talk about some of the idea and principle that have be raise today , and indeed some of the idea and principle that be contain within this interesting Bill . many new and enthusiastic Labour Members be not here during the difficult day of 2016 , 2017 , 2018 , 2019 and 2020 , although some senior and experienced Members be . when look at that densely pack history , there be a temptation to step back . we perhaps do not need to go back quite as far as Sophocles , although the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) always pepper his interesting remark with cultural reference . I be remind of something else that Sophocles say : " there be a point at which even justice do injury . " there be something in these conflict idea of law , international law , obligation and principle that ring with Sophocles . in those Brexit day , mistake be make by hon . member on both side of the House . indeed , my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) have refer to mistake make by the then Administration . they create a starting position that some of we do not want and that have have long consequence . but we be , as have often be say , where we be . from those starting point there have be progress of a type . the initial proposal for the backstop be unquestionably better by the protocol . the Windsor framework , I believe , be well than the protocol . " safeguard the Union " be well than the Windsor framework , but that do not mean that further progress be not possible . as the Windsor framework approach its second birthday , it be worth take stock of what have emerge from it . obviously it make some improvement and achieve some of what it set out to do , but there be still the problem that Opposition member have raise with the flow of certain good between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . that be not a frivolous concern ; it be a serious concern . the promise investment — we be go to see Northern Ireland become a Singapore of the west — have not happen . I have ask about it in my conversation and in my visit to Northern Ireland , and I have hear that it have certainly not yet materialise . on Wednesday night , the House debate the Secretary of State ' s statement on legacy and on the challenge that he be bring to judgment make at the Court of Appeal in Belfast . the interpretation of the Windsor framework be a very live issue that could have profound and long - reach consequence for how law operate in this country . even then , it must be acknowledge that popular opinion in Northern Ireland be shift slowly . queen ' s University Belfast carry out regular poll on how people feel about it . it be become less popular over time . that may change , but it be an issue . these be all practical issue , even before we reach the serious issue , which must never be discard , about sovereignty . if this be where we be right now with the framework , we have to ask what will happen next . the Labour Government be elect not six month ago , with a considerable majority , on a manifesto that commit to " implement the Windsor Framework in good faith and protect the UK internal market " . they must be sure to do both . both element of that promise to the british people be extremely significant . opposition Members have raise many issue that have arise with particular good in particular sector . nowhere be those issue more pressing than in the SPS arrangement and the veterinary medicine arrangement . I talk to farmer in Belfast a few day ago , and they say that they be concerned that the Government do not appreciate that time be of the essence . the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) mention the need for haste in the Paymaster General ' s work . it be indeed press , because the timescale that the EU be brief out be the next two to three year , and the grace period be due to end at the end of 2025 . More than 50 % of Northern Ireland ' s medicine will not be sourceable from the UK . that have a huge implication for farming and agriculture , which be a major part of the economy in Northern Ireland , as I do not need to remind member of the House . do the hon . Gentleman think that the Bill would make it easy or more difficult for the Government to enter into successful negotiation on a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement ? as the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim say , if the Bill be to pass — as we know it will not , because it be be talk out — there would not be the same need for that sort of deal , because good would be flow freely from GB to Northern Ireland , so the question be at good academic . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , actually . I have point to make and I want to leave the Minister time to make her speech and take intervention from member in all part of the House . one thing that strengthen the Windsor framework be " safeguard the Union " , which be critical to where we be now . hon . member will remember that the Northern Ireland Assembly come back together only because of " safeguard the Union " . if element of it be remove , it be possible that that agreement will fall away , although we hope that it will not . if it do , it will risk the stability of our institution in Northern Ireland . there be many point that one could raise — I have ask a lot of parliamentary question on this — but there be some specific on which we be now owe some detail . the first be about the independent monitoring panel . the internal market system be support by the UK internal market guarantee , which be oversee by the independent monitoring panel , but when will the panel first report ? secondly , we have Intertrade UK , which could be an important body . we be all pleased to see Baroness Foster appoint in September , but as far as I be aware , Intertrade UK ' s term of reference have still not be publish . that be unacceptable . we be now three month on from appoint a chair , and many month on from the publication of " safeguard the Union " . Intertrade UK must have its term of reference , and they must be share with member of this House . similarly , we must have regular update from the Government on business preparedness for the internal market system . it be not enough for we to depend on member of the Opposition to ask question proactively ; the Government should report regularly on that . I thank the shadow Minister for give way — I be sure that he will be grateful for the chance to sit down briefly . he have be very constructive , and I welcome that , but in reality the Government have largely inherit this situation , which be quite a difficult one , give the friction and the other issue that we need to discuss . do he not think that he be be a little impatient by demand progress so soon ? no , I do not think I be be impatient , because this be an extremely important subject . we be all aware , when the Command Paper be publish early this year , that this would need to be do . the framework be in the Labour party ' s manifesto , so we assume that it be make those preparation . it be perfectly possible to put together term of reference for Intertrade UK within three month , for example . we be not be impatient ; such thing need to be do for a reason and within a reasonable time . I know that the Minister be alive to the importance of those thing , but I hope that she will hurry that work along . it be clear that under this Government the Windsor framework will continue to run . how successfully it run will depend on any deal they strike and on whether they be able to uphold the commitment make in " safeguard the Union " . however , as Opposition Members have say , the limitation of the Windsor framework , in practical term and on constitutional principle , be clear . that be why we must continue to seek even well solution . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim and my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green talk about the Bill ' s central issue : mutual enforcement . during the Brexit negotiation , mutual enforcement be categorise as " magical thinking , " but I think that be an unfair ploy use by people who do not want to do it . it be think that have magical potential but it be not magical thinking , because , as my right hon . Friend spell out , mutual enforcement have already be do . we have see it work in the EU ' s dealing with New Zealand . significantly , we hear that Monsieur Barnier be open to it , and that people involve in formulate policy at the time have state again that they know it be deliverable . I just do not want anyone on either side of the House to think that mutual enforcement can not be pursue ; it can and must be . with the good will and the technology , there be no reason why there can not be a future in which mutual enforcement play a role . during the Brexit negotiation , I remember be tell repeatedly , as a Back - Bench Member , that there could not be any border check , any infrastructure , or any check near the border . however , in recent month we have see that be not true . we know that it be not true because the Republic be conduct Operation Sonnet , which it be perfectly entitle to do . Operation Sonnet be a series of check perform by the Garda on people cross the border to make sure that they be not cross illegally . I commend the hon . member on his speech . do he agree that today , sadly , be a miss opportunity ? we have it within our grasp in this place to end the application of EU law in Northern Ireland , to restore Northern Ireland ' s place in the UK internal market by remove the irish sea border , and to address the democratic deficit , but we fail , so we will just have more of the same as of tomorrow . I be very glad that the hon . Lady have have an opportunity to make that point . as I have say , we have see that the Republic be carry out check on the other side of the border , so thing that we be tell be not possible be . if that be the case , it must open up possibility for the future . I remain strongly of the view that the Windsor framework with " safeguard the Union " be a well solution than the Windsor framework be ; that the Windsor framework be a well solution than the protocol ; and that the protocol be a well option than the backstop . however , that do not mean that there be not well solution available . those of we who believe in the Union do not wish for a sea border , or for a settlement that infract the act of Union . mutual enforcement obviously have the potential to be a sensible alternative , particularly if it be back up by very serious penalty for those who infringe those arrangement . indeed , in those circumstance , it could be remarkably effective . we would not start from here . we be where we be , but that do not mean that we can not get back to where we once belong . let I begin by express thank to all those who have contribute to this debate so far — I be sure that there will be many more after I — and to the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) . he have set out his view to the House with the same ardour as he do a fortnight ago , although at great length than he be allow to in Westminster Hall , and he make his case during his time in Stormont as well . it be important to restate to he what my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland say to this House a fortnight ago , which be that the Government want Northern Ireland to prosper and flourish as an important part of the Union . on that , many of we will find agreement . we be here to do what be good for the people of Northern Ireland . I also reiterate the Government ' s commitment to both the Windsor framework and to the UK internal market . it be on that point that the Secretary of State respectfully disagree with the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim in this House a fortnight ago . I will set out the Government ' s objection to this Bill , which be not compatible with international law , do not account for Northern Ireland ' s unique circumstance , and would in effect take away power that be give to the Northern Ireland Assembly to make decision about Northern Ireland . it would result in a regulatory black hole that would be very bad for business , job , growth , the Northern Ireland economy and the rest of the United Kingdom . I will start by outline some of the good news for the Northern Ireland economy — news that show what the Windsor framework , the prospect of stability , the Executive return , and the stability of a new Labour Government be do for the economic outlook in Northern Ireland . the Northern Ireland composite economic index indicate that economic output increase by 0 . 4 % over the quarter to June 2024 and by 2 . 3 % over the year . Ulster University ' s economic policy centre show that Northern Ireland have a forecast growth rate of 1 . 4 % in 2024 and 1 . 7 % in 2025 . the region ' s economy be perform well than be expect at the start of the year . this have be drive by strong growth in employment , particularly in the transport , construction and health sector . the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency ' s interdepartmental business register show that the number of business register for vat or pay - as - you - earn operating in Northern Ireland in 2022 be estimate to have rise by 1 , 550 since 2021 to 77 , 640 , and be continue to increase . [ Official Report , 6 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) I could go on and on ; I have a long list of the good news story for Northern Ireland . the economy be work , but all the business I speak to talk about the need for stability , and the underlying premise of this Bill would change that stability . we would go into uncertainty and chaos , which would not be good for the Northern Ireland economy . honestly and sincerely , each one of we on the Unionist Benches who have concern have present example of where thing be not work , and the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) introduce the Bill to address those issue . I give two example of business , and I could give many more if you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be to let I , but I know that you will not . the Minister might say that what have be do be positive , but for we there be not positivity . constituent with business have tell I that they will no long be able to trade , to have a business , or to provide employment and pay wage , and that have to be address . those be the issue that we be raise , Minister . tell we what will happen . I listen carefully to the example that the hon . Gentleman give on behalf of his constituent . they be concern , and we need to listen to they carefully . I absolutely understand the concern raise by other member in this debate as well . it be useful to have this debate , so that we can talk about those issue , but without the Windsor framework , there would be no framework from within which to negotiate change . many change have be make since the establishment of the Windsor framework , and that show that it can flex , allow negotiation , and allow for practice and scheme , such as the internal market scheme , that enable the smooth flow of trade . that be the benefit of have the Windsor framework , rather than ditch it . the Minister talk about the flexibility of the Windsor framework in allow change . of course , the Windsor framework be not able to change one word of the substantial content of the protocol , because the protocol involve give the EU control over the vast swathe of our economy that be under those 300 area of law . it involve put Northern Ireland under the EU ' s custom code . only if that be reverse can Northern Ireland return to the UK internal market and be retrieve from the EU single market . the Windsor framework do none of that , and even with the great will in the world , it be not capable of do any of that . it can tinker ; it can not change . I will come to his important point on the 300 area of law , because it be important to put that in context . however , I reiterate that have a framework within which to negotiate be well for all those area than not have one , reset thing and try to do in just three month what have be do and talk about for the past eight year . that be what this Bill would do . I will cover the point make by the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim and by other . they be sincerely make , but the Government sincerely disagree . before I come to the substance of the Bill , it be important that this House should deal in fact , and I be afraid that the opening speech of the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim contain a number of factual inaccuracy that it be important to correct . he claim that a Stormont brake be nothing more than a request from the Assembly for the law to be disapplie . back - seat driving be refer to . that be incorrect . in fact , schedule 6b of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 place a strict legal duty on the Government to act where the brake be validly use by member of the Northern Ireland Assembly . the hon . and learn Gentleman have use hyperbolic and frankly incendiary language , impugn the motive of our partner and ally , all the while ignore the fact that this House vote for the arrangement that now apply . I can only presume that he support the sovereignty of this Parliament . indeed , he have oppose the existence of the Northern Ireland Assembly under the Good Friday agreement , so he should reflect on the fact that the Windsor framework represent the democratic will of this House . he make repeat reference to the 300 area where EU law be applicable to Northern Ireland . he ignore the fact that , under the Windsor framework , more than 1 , 700 page of EU law , with accompany European Court of Justice jurisdiction , have be disapplie . they cover area such as vat , medicine , which be refer to , and food safety ; the UK Government can decide on they , and UK court can interpret issue to do with they . I have my own view on the whole process , but that be faithfully apply after the democratic vote to withdraw from the EU . rise — I will give way , but I will not do so too much , as I will not have time to go through all my point otherwise . be there , or be there not , 300 area of law that be now beyond the legislative reach of this House and the Assembly because they lie within the purview of the European Parliament ? be that true or false ? there be this trilemma , involve the integrity of the UK internal market ; avoid a hard border on the island of Ireland ; and respect that our EU partner have a legitimate interest , and be able to co - ordinate trade with it . those 300 regulation , which be a very small amount of the whole , allow for thing like dairy farmer move milk over the border and back , which I be sure the hon . and learn Gentleman would agree be necessary . they allow for smooth movement of trade . those remain regulation enable business in Northern Ireland to go about their business . the hon . and learn Gentleman have claim that the vast majority of veterinary medicine be at risk of be discontinue at the end of next year . that be also incorrect . he be right that there be ongoing issue that the Government be work hard with industry and farmer to address , and I be glad that they have be raise by Members today . however , he be simply wrong to say that the vast majority of veterinary medicine be at risk , and engagement with industry suggest no such thing . the hon . and learn Gentleman claim that the Windsor framework have cause shortage in medicine for diabete . again , that be incorrect . various factor can sometimes give rise to gap in medicine supply across the United Kingdom . the overwhelming majority of medicine be in good supply , and we have well - establish process to manage supply issue . his claim that such issue be in any way a result of the Windsor framework , or be specific to Northern Ireland , be wrong . the hon . and learn Gentleman hold up the Good Friday agreement and ask where it demand that there be no border infrastructure on the island of Ireland . I know he have his own reservation about that agreement ; perhaps that be why the fact have not be understand . that agreement be one of the proud achievement of the last Labour Government , and the peace and security it have produce be premise in no small part on the normalisation of security . the absence of a hard border be an overwhelmingly good thing . the hon . and learn Gentleman ask for quote , and I shall oblige he . the agreement commit to a normalisation of security arrangement and practice , and commit the British Government to " the objective of as early a return as possible to normal security arrangement " . the common travel area have exist for more than a century , and be integral to the movement of people and good on the island of Ireland . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make some progress . to the Government ' s mind , this commitment to normal security arrangement could not be meet , under the common travel area arrangement , with a hard border of the sort that the Bill would institute . the hon . and learn Gentleman indicate that , come what may , he want his part of the UK enable to follow the rest out of the EU . I need not remind he that the whole of the UK leave the European Union , and that the debate have be settle . we can see that he would prefer that damage hard border for Northern Ireland . first , will the Minister accept that the arrangement refer to in the Belfast agreement be security arrangement — army watchtower and Army post along the border ? secondly , despite what she have say about the common travel area , do she accept that guard be stop and search vehicle on road in and out of Northern Ireland , to take people off they , because they believe that they be illegal immigrant ? the common travel area be not even be respect by the Irish Government . there be absolutely minimal stop along the border . it be not a hard border , but circumstance would be very different under the Bill , which imply an ideological hard Brexit — will the Minister give way ? no , I will make some progress now . will the Minister give way to I ? indicate assent . I be very grateful to the Minister , but could I just cautiously and gently urge she to draw back from the comment she have make about the movement and security around the border ? one of the most incendiary thing to occur during the discussion with the European Union and the British Government be Leo Varadkar show a copy of the Irish Times that display a picture of a border post that be blow up by the IRA during the trouble , and suggest that the trade arrangement could lead to the same thing . he be wrong then , and I think the Minister be in danger of step into that territory today . I hope the right hon . Member understand that I be talk about the difference between a hard border and a soft border . the Windsor framework enable the smooth flow of trade , which be good for business on both side of the border and also safeguard the Union . the Windsor framework do not damage the Union ; it actually strengthen it and ensure that it can continue . on the issue of a hard border , will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress now , because time be run out in this debate and I want to get to the end . on the consent vote , it be simply wrong to claim that all major decision in Northern Ireland require cross - community agreement . as the hon . member for Belfast South and Mid Down ( Claire Hanna ) point out , cross - community agreement be not require for Northern Ireland to leave the EU and be not a requirement for constitutional change , in line with the principle of consent in the Good Friday agreement . the reality be that the Good Friday agreement never envisage a device such as the consent vote , so the arrangement for that vote be determine by this House and the amendment that it make to the Northern Ireland Act . let I briefly thank right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to the debate , include my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) , the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) and for Belfast South and Mid Down , the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) and the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , and other who have yet to contribute . I be grateful to member for raise many issue , which I will take away . I be also grateful for the comment from the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar and other about continue to speak , and about dialogue . I turn now to the substance of the Bill . I shall set out three reason why the Government can not support it today . first , the Bill can not be say to be compatible with international law . I know that the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim have make assertion about international law , but the absolute truth be that the Bill be premise on replace the agree measure under the Windsor framework with unilateralism and uncertainty . in the circumstance , that would constitute a breach of the UK ' s agreement , which would be unlawful under international law . this Government be commit to the rule of the law and to meet the UK ' s international obligation , and the Bill contain a set of unilateral measure that do no such thing . this be not an abstract matter ; it be a matter of consequence . we must be clear that it be never in any nation ' s interest to flagrantly disregard international law and treaty obligation . do so would weaken our standing abroad and our prospect for beneficial international agreement in the future , which matter , particularly for Northern Ireland . as the House know , the Government be elect with a mandate to reset our relationship with the EU and tear down trade barrier , include by negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement . hon . member have raise concern about the operation of the Windsor framework , but there be significant potential for practical issue to be improve or address through the negotiation of such an agreement . that be in the good interest of Northern Ireland , and it be in the interest of the United Kingdom as a whole , but a nation that turn its back on prior commitment can not hope to persuade other to enter new and beneficial arrangement . I know that , as a proud Unionist , the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim will appreciate the potential benefit of such an agreement to Northern Ireland and to strengthen the Union , so I confess that I be somewhat baffled that he be promote legislation that would be so detrimental to the prospect of secure future agreement . it be play fast and loose with the rule of law , which be very bad for business . the Bill would create condition in which business and citizen can never be certain about which rule will be respect and which will not . it would create uncertainty over the regulatory framework on which business in Northern Ireland now rely to trade , include the ability to trade across the island of Ireland without friction . it would do so automatically by bring down a hard guillotine on the trading arrangement in just three month , leave business no time to adjust . it would be an economic shock . in my time work on international development campaign , I see at first hand at the World Trade Organisation what regulatory certainty and uncertainty can do for the prospect of small business , the job they create and the economy they contribute to . I can personally attest that it be well for those business to work on the basis of agree trade arrangement than to leave they strand in the choppy water of regulatory uncertainty . secondly , the Bill do nothing to account for Northern Ireland ' s unique circumstance . let we be honest : these issue have be discuss , debate , analyse and dissect in this House for nearly a decade now , as other member have say . they have occupy the political life of the nation for some time , and it be right that they have do so . the concern of the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim , and those of right hon . and hon . member from the Democratic Unionist party and the Ulster Unionist party , be real and legitimate , and deserve to be take seriously . but , although I understand and respect the strength of feeling behind the Bill , I say respectfully to the hon . and learn Gentleman that neither this Bill , nor the similar variation on its proposal that have be advance over the past nine year , do anything to address the practical issue in a more stable and sustainable manner than the Windsor framework address they . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make progress . as I say early , the core challenge remain the trilemma : how do we preserve the integrity of the UK ' s internal market , avoid a hard border on the island of Ireland , and respect the legitimate interest of our EU partner in protect their single market , just as we seek to protect our ? the Windsor framework provide an answer to a very difficult question . I say simply that , across several election , the vast majority of right hon . and hon . member elect to this place have be elect on a platform of avoid a hard border . for good reason , then , we need to support the Windsor framework . thirdly , the Bill would serve to prejudice the democratic decision that the Northern Ireland Assembly be make itself . last month , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland initiate the progress for the Northern Ireland Assembly to decide on the continue application of article 5 to 10 of the Windsor framework . that vote be provide for in the Windsor framework and under domestic law , which be strengthen under the term of " safeguard the Union " . it be now a matter for Northern Ireland ' s elect representative to decide on . I be pleased that the elect representative of the people of Northern Ireland be able , as part of the function devolve institution , to exercise the important democratic scrutiny function include in the Windsor framework . the Bill would fatally undermine the power that those in the Assembly have over scrutinise regulation that apply in Northern Ireland . the Government will only support sustainable arrangement for Northern Ireland that work for business , protect the UK ' s internal market and uphold our international obligation . the Windsor framework do just that , and the Government be firmly committed to it , just as stridently as we be commit to the UK internal market and to Northern Ireland flourish within a strengthen Union . just as important be that we will be honest with the people of Northern Ireland about what be and be not possible , and what the trade - off be with various option . there will be no more magical thinking ; no reopening of the wardrobe into a political Narnia of mythical solution to the practical issue that we must consider in respect of trade ; and no more simplification that work as soundbite but do not stand up in reality . at this crucial time , the people of Northern Ireland deserve honesty . do the Minister not agree that mutual enforcement be , in principle , about use what already exist in term of trade ? in the course of building on the Windsor agreement , might she consider influence the EU to get rid of the border between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom ? I do not know where in the world mutual enforcement have work . I understand how it can work in some limited way , but not in the wholesale way outline by the right hon . member . I be afraid it be in the tradition of unreal answer to real and complex challenge to which the Windsor framework remain the only credible solution . will the Minister indulge I for a moment ? can we just kill off this canard about mutual enforcement ? the Bill go much far than suggest mutual enforcement . it seek to remove Northern Ireland from the European Court of Justice , and therefore from the single market . it be not just about in - market surveillance ; it be about entirely remove our economy , include our agri - food economy , from the single market . do the Minister agree that that be why this proposal be magical thinking and why it be simply not on the table ? I thank the hon . member for mention one area in which this process would be disallow . however , there be a long list of area on which we be currently work , in which system be work well , that would be disapplie . we could go back to 1880 and the act of Union , when there actually be difference between the island of Ireland and the rest of the UK , and I could say more about those , but I will end my speech by say this . I believe that if the Bill be pass , far from strengthen our constitutional settlement — although I be sure that the right hon . and learn Member for North Antrim would wish that to be the case — it would weaken the UK ' s constitutional foundation and its international standing immeasurably . it would not be good for business in Northern Ireland , and it would not be good for the people of Northern Ireland . for those reason , the Government will be vote against the Bill today . may I echo what be say by my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) , Madam Deputy Speaker , and say that my heart swell with pride to see you in the Chair ? we be of the same vintage , as be the Prime Minister : the class of 2015 . here we be on another Friday of private member ' Bills . I have to say to the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) that although he and I be on the same side last week , along with the Minister , and I proudly march through the Lobby with he — he make a passionate speech on that day as well — I be afraid that today I can not support his Bill , for numerous reason . the hon . and learn Gentleman — who be not even listen to I ! — deliver his argument with his customary passion and dramatic flair , but I think that the Bill be actually quite dangerous . last week we be talk about safeguard and limitation of power . that debate be all about oversight . this week we have be talk about mutual enforcement , which remove all oversight . I be a bit worried about all this . I agree with my hon . friend the Minister — who make a brilliant speech — that by seek to disapply section 7a of the Windsor framework , which enable EU legislation to enter UK domestic law , the Bill undermine the Good Friday agreement , one of the proud achievement of the last Labour Government or indeed any Labour Government , and attack human right protection . the Windsor framework only see the light of day in 2023 ; it be not even a finished process , and the hon . and learn Gentleman want to strangle it at birth . the framework be only the late instalment of the divorce deal between Great Britain and the EU revisit border arrangement . we all remember the referendum of 2016 , which open a Pandora ' s box and a can of worm — stuff that we have never see in this country before . I be a passionate remainer , and my constituency be 72 % in favour of remain . there be tear in playground across Ealing and Acton the day after that referendum . however , I be mature enough to realise that the sky have not fall in , so how do we make Brexit work ? I feel that the Windsor framework be one of the thing to mitigate . that be what we should be look at , mitigate , not rip up international treaty . I agree with my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) : we be still hopeful for trade deal with the rest of the world . if we rip up an international agreement now , how be the rest of the world to take we seriously ? it be a fundamental breach of trust . last week we be talk about assist dying . People of my persuasion use to say that it would be " political suicide " to leave the EU . I have accept that the sky have not fall in , and I think that the Windsor framework be a sensible next step . we 2015 - er have be through probably 20 year ' worth of election in half the time . we have they every other year : in 2015 , 2017 and 2019 . those Brexit year — I be sure that my hon . friend the Member for Bootle remember they — and those late night that we have ! John Bercow live on site , in the place where we attend all those Diwali reception the other day . it be about 1 am , and I remember Stephen Twigg , who be sit behind I , say , " come on , John — we don ' t all live here . " we have plenty of those late - night sitting . Brexit , to my regret , divide family and party . remember all those thing we have put in the recess of our mind ? there be the Cooper - Boles agreement , the Dromey - Spelman amendment — all those thing . this debate be give I weird flashback ; I be be teleport back to 2017 ! this be the bit we be get to function — [ interruption . ] yes , that word " Brexit " . I do not think I have even say the word so far — I can not bring myself to say it . there be " the Chequers approach " and dexeu . two entirely new Government Departments be create — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 11 July . business without Debate Controlled Drugs ( Procedure for Specification ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . unauthorised Entry to Football Matches Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 January . sale of Tickets ( Sporting and Cultural Events ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 January . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 January . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 January . Terminal Illness ( Relief of Pain ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 January . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 January . Spray Foam Insulation : property Value Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) the green home grant voucher scheme be introduce in July 2020 under the Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy . the scheme be part of the Department ' s green recovery from the pandemic and promise to contribute to the goal of net zero carbon emission by 2050 . some £ 1 . 5 billion of funding be make available by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to offer homeowner the opportunity to reduce emission and improve energy efficiency . individual homeowner could apply for up to £ 5 , 000 of funding to cover two third of the cost of eligible energy efficiency measure . between September 2020 and March 2021 , just short of 50 , 000 voucher be pay to homeowner that could be use for a variety of improvement , include heat pump , energy efficient window and door and , importantly , spray foam insulation . the exact number of voucher give out for use on spray foam insulation be unknown . however , almost 14 , 000 voucher be use for loft and pitch roof insulation measure which could have include spray foam . spray foam insulation be a form of liquid insulation apply with a spray gun , typically in roof , loft and attic . this be where the problem occur . it have the potential to improve thermal efficiency if apply correctly . however , it can cause significant damage when it be not do correctly . homeowner have report problem in timber - frame roof follow installation . it restrict air circulation cause condensation that ultimately damage the property and have result in sign of decay and dampness in timber frame roof . homeowner put faith in the Government ' s recommendation and carry out this work with the promise of enhanced energy efficiency . instead , they have be meet with thousand of pound of remedial work and difficulty in sell their property . an unregulated trade of cowboy builder offer to carry out remedial work have also emerge . homeowner be be convince to spend thousand on improvement when they be not always necessary . the Government need a cross - departmental strategy to address the issue arise from the green home grant voucher scheme . we must see action to support affected homeowner with a compensation scheme , regulation of removal company and step to tackle the blanket ban that some mortgage provider have place on home with the insulation . there be important lesson to be learn here to ensure future Government home improvement scheme do not have the same unintended consequence . spray foam insulation have the potential to cause such severe damage that many mortgage lender have issue blanket refusal . BBC research demonstrate the varied approach mortgage lender be take on the issue . of the 20 large mortgage provider , seven have say that they refuse to lend on any property with any form of spray foam insulation . the other 13 state that extra information and survey would likely be require and that mortgage would be offer only on a case - by - case basis . that be add additional cost to people when they come to mortgage , remortgage or sell their home . my constituent Tom describe the utter devastation he feel when the sale of his house fall through after surveyor discover spray foam insulation . it be only once the buyer inform Tom that they would not be able to get a mortgage approve on the property that he learn of the danger of this type of insulation . without the availability of grant money , Tom and his family would never have consider instal spray foam insulation . however , they want to do their bit for the environment through the green home grant scheme . there be lot of good people out there like Tom try to make effort to help reduce their carbon emission and contribute to net zero , and they have fall foul through no fault of their own . Tom apply for a voucher through a scheme that would cover two third of the cost of the upgrade and put in £ 1 , 000 of his own hard - earn money , too . after receive a list of government - approve installer , Tom and his family choose one that they believe meet the standard to carry out the work . after the sale of the house fall through , Tom begin investigate potential remedial work to remove the foam and make his home suitable for mortgage . it soon become apparent that there be no affordable option . Tom have report spend £ 4 , 000 on removal of the spray foam insulation , while another constituent , Norma , have be tell that she will likely need to have all the roof timber replace due to the severity of the damage . early this year , the Health and Safety Executive publish shock datum reveal that condensation could cause 25 % of roof timber to decay within five year if spray foam be apply directly to roof tile . however , the Insulation Manufacturers Association have warn that blanket ban on mortgage for home with spray foam be lead to a new wave of rogue trader offer to remove foam for over - inflate price , often cause great damage in the process . it say that homeowner must not turn to cowboy for this removal service . when instal correctly by a regulated provider , spray foam be an effective form of insulation . it recommend that anyone with spray foam get an independent assessment by a surveyor . prior to these conversation , the surveying industry have little knowledge of spray foam or how to adequately check its impact on roof timber — that be what be lead to the blanket refusal . the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors , the Health and Safety Executive and insulation manufacturer have all work to introduce protocol , which be a good first step to measure the impact of spray foam and ensure safe removal . it be imperative that we regulate rogue removal company and stop they charge thousand of pound to remove spray foam that could have be correctly instal . despite the previous Government have run and fund the scheme , they take a hand - off approach to the issue . we must not see the new Government follow that same approach . instead , we need to see decisive action to support those face the financial repercussion of the Conservatives ' lack of due diligence . several excuse have be use to justify the lack of action by successive government . cowboy builder have be blame for apply foam without the necessary expertise of proper survey . while that have certainly contribute to the damage , that can not act as a " get out of jail free " card for the previous Conservative Government . there have be attempt to shift blame to the homeowner for use an installer that do not meet standard . in June 2022 , when press on the possibility of redress for impact homeowner , the Government argue that it be the responsibility of the installer and homeowner to decide whether to proceed with use spray foam insulation . however , all work use voucher have to be do by a TrustMark - register installer . TrustMark be a government - endorse quality scheme for tradespeople . the then Minister , Greg Hands , argue that the Government be not responsible for remedy the impact of a scheme as TrustMark have " a robust framework of operating requirement , include dispute management . " Recipients of green grant voucher be provide with a list of recommend installer to choose from , and my constituent Tom provide a copy of that TrustMark certification of lodgement that he receive follow the installation of the foam . TrustMark ' s slogan be " government - endorse quality " . in this case , it be somewhat ironically brand . while previous government have try to wash their hand of responsibility for the disastrous impact of the scheme , their involvement be well document . TrustMark continue to operate as the only government - endorse quality scheme for home improvement . understandably , homeowner trust the recommendation and installer that the Government have endorse . it be the responsibility of the Government and TrustMark to ensure that those installer be capable of carry out the work to the necessary standard . the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors have previously raise concern with the Government about the lack of impartial advice under the scheme . retrofit adviser be often the same as installer and salesperson . if the Government continue use TrustMark to regulate contractor , great due diligence be require to ensure that those contractor be endorse and have all the necessary knowledge , experience and training to carry out work to the high standard . so far , the Government have not take action to understand the breadth of the impact of spray foam on recipient of green home grant voucher . I table a number of question that the Minister kindly respond to yesterday in advance of this debate . we do not yet know the true number of people who might be impact , but it be estimate to be in the ten of thousand , if not more . there be currently no clear datum to ascertain how many home have be impact , which be why the Government need to investigate this fully . those who put their faith in the Government ' s recommendation deserve their full attention to remedy the repercussion . the Government should take some responsibility for the negative implication of use the endorsed installer and method . so far , that be not happen . they have recommend that consumer seek redress under the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 . however , a number of these installer have since go bankrupt , make it incredibly difficult to claim against they . consumer be therefore have to cover the cost of removal and repair themselves . the Government have attempt to rid themselves of responsibility by argue that the availability of term of mortgage be an issue for lender . multiple issue be at play , include difficulty with TrustMark ' s dispute management system . also , many of those installer no long exist , and company have close , as have the green home grant scheme . there be grow call for compensation for those who have be impact by spray foam insulation to cover not just the cost of large remedial work but their contribution to the initial work . the green home grant voucher scheme only cover two third of cost in most case . there need to be proper support for people who have spray foam instal . my constituent Tom be very lucky that he have family support while they move , and they have the opportunity to move out for remedial work to take place . nevertheless , he remain £ 4 , 000 out of pocket . we can not ignore the issue cause by spray foam insulation . potentially , 300 , 000 home have spray foam insulation , and we need support to ensure these home be sellable . the Government must step in and ensure that mortgage provider be not unnecessarily withhold mortgage . we must also limit the unregulated trade of foam removal company prey on vulnerable household and cause further damage at hugely inflate price . I have already attempt to address that with the Department . it be evident that cross - governmental issue be at play . where there have be legitimate damage to property from people who have use green home grant money , the Government must step in and take action . lesson need to be learn for future Government scheme , too . be important not to be alarmist . People should not remove spray foam until they have have it check by a reputable surveyor with the necessary training and experience to deal with this issue . it be understandable that mortgage provider have to lend responsibly , but blanket ban contribute to mass panic and fuel the business of cowboy builder . we must make sure that mortgage provider be properly regulate , too . this be a nationwide issue — although the number be still unknown , people have reach out from across the country as this issue have come to the surface recently . I have have conversation with a number of colleague across party . my hon . friend the Members for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) and for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) be work hard to get support for their constituent who have be affect . it be key that people put their faith in the Government ' s recommendation . these be good people who want to work hard towards the goal of net zero and save a little money along the way . they should not be leave thousand of pound out of pocket because of it . it be crucial that we not only provide they with the necessary support , but look to the future to make sure that we prevent this happen again with any other scheme . I do not deny that the green home grant scheme be well intentione . such scheme be crucial , and I do not want to diminish faith in future scheme . however , we need to rectify the scheme of the past . if not , people will not trust the scheme of the future . I also appreciate that this be not an issue of the current Minister but one of the many legacy of the previous Conservative Government and the disaster that ensue . I would welcome meeting and work with the Minister responsible for repair and regulation , and to ensure that this do not happen again . I appreciate the time that the Minister have already give to this issue in advance of today ' s debate , and I hope that she will continue to work with I to address this issue . let I start by thank the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) for bring this important issue to the attention of the House and highlight the story of his constituent . this Government be commit to ensure that all energy efficiency installation be do to the high standard , and that proper consumer protection and redress be build into the system . that matter because build and maintain consumer confidence and trust be critical to our deliver our warm home plan and upgrade million of home across the country . we will do everything that we can to ensure that the system work for consumer . this be therefore a very important and a timely debate . we understand the frustration and the difficulty that some homeowner with spray foam loft insulation have experience when obtain finance . this problem follow the publication of now - withdraw guidance from a surveyor association in December 2021 . the guidance say that surveyor could not comment on the condition of timber roof structure , or properly assess the risk once instal , give the nature of the product . in response to the problem that some homeowner be have when obtain finance , under the previous Government , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government work with industry to publish several document in 2023 . these include a consumer guide , a code of practice for installer and an inspection protocol , alongside training for surveyor . the Building Safety Regulator also complete research to understand moisture risk factor , which indicate that the risk be low if the relevant british standard be follow . crucially , the inspection protocol now enable a surveyor to determine whether an installation be do properly and , therefore , to determine the risk level . this mean decision on mortgage product should be make on a case - by - case basis , and there should not be a blanket exclusion on mortgage . I understand that progress be be make and , while some lender will want to follow the advice of surveyor , most no long have a blanket policy against lending where there be spray foam insulation . we be aware that just over 6 , 000 pitch roof insulation measure be instal use a voucher from the previous Government ' s green home grant voucher scheme , and some of these installation may have use spray foam product . if product have be instal to the standard require under the scheme , we do not expect they to be remove . we expect that they be do the work and be effective in the home . a surveyor should be able to use the available inspection protocol to make the proper assessment . where the measure have not be instal correctly , however , homeowner should contact their installer or use the TrustMark dispute resolution process to seek redress . if the installer be no long trade , the homeowner should contact the guarantee provider . the detail of this should be in the paperwork they be give at the point of installation , or they will be available from TrustMark . although the system be work , we know that it be not work in too many case and that people be fall between the crack . we know that the standard and accreditation process for government scheme be too complex , and that accountability structure be not always clear . I be new to my role , but I be the first to admit that there be a job to do to improve the system so that , when problem occur , consumer get the right advice and redress without have to bang their head against the wall to get it . the Government be determined to address this . the Government ' s ambitious warm home plan will upgrade million of home across the country to make they warm and cheap to run , from instal new insulation to roll out solar panel and heat pump . we will review the consumer protection framework as part of this plan , ensure clear line of accountability and clear and easy redress mechanism so that consumer can trust the system . the plan will also outline the further action we intend to take to drive up quality and standard , and to support the supply chain to grow in size and competence . this will include invest in training and support trust small business that work in the community to join the supply chain . we understand that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , and constituent across the country , face this issue , and we be look into it to understand the size of the problem and what we can do in response . more fundamentally , people should be in no doubt that we be commit to build consumer protection and trust , because that be the only way we can take the country on the journey as we try to upgrade million of home . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the profile of this issue , for raise the story of his constituent and the difficulty they have face , and for give we the opportunity to highlight the avenue that be available for affected consumer . question put and agree to . House adjourn .