New Member the follow Member take and subscribe the oath require by law : George Galloway , for Rochdale . oral Answers to Questions Levelling up , Housing and Communities the Secretary of State be ask — Rough sleeping and Homelessness what step he be take to support rough sleeper and homeless people to move into accommodation . what step he be take to help reduce the number of family in temporary accommodation . we be invest almost £ 2 . 4 billion over three year to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping , which be an unprecedented amount . that include over £ 1 . 2 billion through the homelessness prevention grant , which council can use flexibly to prevent homelessness and help family to move out of temporary accommodation . last week , an additional £ 107 million be allocate to council through the single homelessness accommodation programme , provide 808 home for people sleep rough . I thank my hon . friend for that answer , but the number of people in temporary accommodation have rise by 10 % over the past year , and the number of rough sleeper have rise by 27 % across the country . clearly , the money be very much need — all London council report that they be spend more than the temporary accommodation money that have be allocate . equally , the pilot for Housing First have be outstandingly successful , so can we ensure that Housing First be introduce across the country and more investment be make , in order to take people off the street and provide they with a permanent home , as they deserve ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for everything he have do in the homelessness space . the other day , I be look at the figure from the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 — we have support 708 , 000 family courtesy of that Act , in order to prevent homelessness . my hon . friend be absolutely right that we have see an uptick in rough sleeping and homelessness , which be disappointing . however , with rough sleeping we be still 9 % below pre - pandemic level , and 18 % below the high in 2017 . I agree with he about the success of Housing First . we have invest £ 42 million in those pilot , and we be invest a furth £ 30 million through the rough sleep initiative . there be 142 , 000 child live in temporary accommodation — a record high that be costly to taxpayer , but devastating to the life of child and family — and the Government ' s own datum show that they have utterly fail on their 2019 manifesto commitment to end rough sleeping by 2024 . as the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) have just say , rough sleeping have rise by 27 % in the past year , and I remind the Minister that it be 120 % high than in 2010 . be she happy for child and family to be pay the price for 14 year of Tory failure on housing ? this Government have make a concerted effort to tackle homelessness and eliminate rough sleeping . I be not happy with the number in temporary accommodation , which be why the last autumn statement contain a series of measure to address the issue , include an additional £ 450 million for the local authority housing fund — take that to £ 1 . 2 billion — in order to improve the quality of temporary accommodation . we have also uprate the local housing allowance to the 30th percentile , which be worth £ 800 per family . Southend have an abundance of accommodation that be deem inexpensive by local authority , and our city be pick up the tab for social care , education and long - term housing when other local authority be not inform our city council that they be place people in the city . under section 208 of the Housing Act 1996 , all local authority should give prior notice when place people for homelessness within 14 day . will my hon . friend assist I and Southend - on - Sea City Council in deal with this issue ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct : if a local authority place people into temporary accommodation outside the borough , it should notify the relevant local authority . I be very happy to assist in get that message across . analysis by London Councils show that , on average , the equivalent of one child in every classroom be homeless and that London local authority be now spend a staggering £ 90 million a month on temporary accommodation for those who be homeless . what conversation have the Minister have with colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions and the Treasury about raise the cap on the housing benefit subsidy for temporary accommodation and also support local authority to buy up property , as Richmond Borough Council be do , so they can rehouse people locally in decent accommodation ? as the hon . Lady will understand , I can not talk about any discussion that we may have have with the Treasury , but clearly the Budget be on Wednesday . however , I would point to the increase in the local housing allowance rate , which will take effect in April , and the local authority housing fund be intend specifically to help local authority to buy property for temporary accommodation . I call shadow Secretary of State . I hear what the Minister say about the housing fund for temporary accommodation , but what we need to be do be reduce the number of family in temporary accommodation . four year have pass since the Government first promise to end section 21 eviction , and now 70 , 000 child be come home from school each night to sleep in temporary accommodation . for a child be bring up in a hotel room , do their homework on the bathroom floor and eat their dinner perch on the bed , the opportunity to make the most of their life be out of their control . so I ask the Minister how many more child must face eviction before she meet the promise ? we be absolutely committed to repeal section 21 — there be no question about that . as I have say , the number for those in temporary accommodation be disappointing but we do have a very holistic approach : build more housing , build more affordable home , and enable local authority to go out and build and purchase temporary accommodation . Levelling - up Fund what assessment he have make of the impact of the levelling - up fund on local community . we be transform community the length and breadth of our United Kingdom through our £ 4 . 8 billion levelling - up fund , improve transport , regenerate high street and rebuild pride in place . I thank my hon . friend for his answer , and I be delighted that we have recently be able to bring £ 78 million of investment to Clacton . freeport will be a major contributor towards level up , and in my view level up also mean well transport infrastructure , but not enough be get through to bus service in my patch . will he support my campaign outline that Freeport East in Essex need to show its social value in Clacton by help to improve connectivity for everyone across the Tendring district , include for bus ? I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss his campaign . bus be the most popular form of public transport in our country . they be an essential element of our national transport system , play a vital part in level up . I be grateful to my hon . friend for acknowledge the huge amount of levelling - up funding go into Clacton and be keen to work with he to see how we can help people in Jaywick as well . my borough , Hackney , be successful in its bid for levelling - up funding , but there be a delay to the bid be put in , because the Government change the timetable , and a delay to the final decision , again because the Government delay the timetable , which have contribute — it be not the only factor — to a nine - month delay in the programme and get the funding . will the Minister look at that ? give that it be a Government flagship programme , be he not a bit disappointed that the timescale problem be down to his own Department ? I absolutely commit to look at that . we have introduce the project adjustment request process , and I be more than happy to talk to the hon . Lady and her local authority about how they can utilise that to meet the change that she outline . do my hon . friend agree that the great strength of levelling - up funding be that it support project that be generate by local community , rather than by officialdom ? when the Borders levelling - up partnership be consider project , the project in my constituency at the Crook Inn at Tweedsmuir and the George Hotel in Walkerburn be ideal for such funding opportunity . I be grateful to meet my right hon . friend recently to discuss those exact priority . we be hope to invest £ 20 million into the levelling - up partnership he mention . I be sure that those priority will be part of our consideration as we design the partnership . community in Northern Ireland experience no benefit from the last round of level - up funding , because of the Government ' s flimsy excuse that the Assembly be not sit . now that the Assembly be sit , can the Minister tell we what discussion he have have with the community Minister to ensure that the million of pound that he say be set aside will be available for project in Northern Ireland ? I can absolutely commit to have those discussion , and I offer to meet the right hon . Gentleman follow Question Time . I be proud that Morley have receive £ 24 million in funding from the Conservative Government . I be sure that my hon . Friend agree that transparency and care with taxpayer ' money be vital . will he look into the concern that a number of constituent have raise about Morley Town Council , include the controversial plan to install £ 80 , 000 - worth of tv screen in a conservation area , whether it follow the correct tendering process and whether any vested interest among those involve be fully declare ? I will absolutely look into those concern and ensure that my official can meet my hon . friend to discuss they far . the success or otherwise of level up will be test by whether people in community feel well off and whether inequality in those community be remove . what assessment have the Minister make of an area such as Tameside , which have have three successful levelling - up bid , but feel poor because its council be £ 200 million bad off ? across the north - west , we be invest £ 2 . 2 billion through our different levelling - up fund stream . we be work closely with the Mayor of Greater Manchester , give he more power and more funding to help deal with the exact issue the hon . gentleman mention . I call the shadow Minister . the Government talk about level up , but local council and community be on the brink due to policy make in Downing Street that affect every single local authority in the country . funding have be slash , the fair funding review delay , and the business rate reset postpone , while reserve be deplete , community asset have be sell , account go unsubmitted , and more and more council be line up for emergency support . be it not time to end the stick - plaster politic and have a long - term plan for all our community ' sake , or be the Government do what the country be do : wait for a Labour Government ? I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman fail to mention the long - term plan for Oldham , which be in his constituency and where we be invest £ 20 million over the next 10 year . since 2019 , we have invest £ 15 billion of levelling - up funding across the country . we be commit to level up right across the country . local Government Finance : pothole if he will make a comparative assessment of trend in ( a ) the level of local government financial settlement and ( b ) the number of car damage as a result of pothole in the last 10 year . we have make available up to £ 64 . 7 billion for local authority through the 2024 - 25 local government finance settlement . local authority can decide how to spend the majority of that funding . the Government be also invest more than £ 5 billion into local highway maintenance in this Parliament . in October , we announce a furth £ 8 billion to fix our road . GoCompare ' s recent pothole report describe the pothole in Tory - run Derbyshire as the very bad in England . the conservative council leader be clear in his view that it be fund decision from central Government that have force the county to adopt what he call the totally ineffective " stick plaster and patch approach " . he say that the funding from the Government " doesn ' t touch the side of the issue for county " across the country . why should derbyshire motorist pay a Tory pothole tax , with tyre , spring and suspension all constantly need repair as a result of the state of our road ? for the hon . Gentleman ' s benefit , let I repeat those figure of £ 5 billion for local highway maintenance and the additional £ 8 billion announce in October . that will fill hole , include in Derbyshire and his constituency , to support motorist , the economy and people go about their business . it be normal in these circumstance to invite a Minister to visit a constituency . the Minister be welcome to visit my constituency , the Wrekin in Shropshire , and the Telford and Wrekin borough , but if he visit the Telford and Wrekin borough bit , could he bring a spare tyre ? the pothole there be enormous . I thank he for allow £ 32 million to be release over the next 11 year to ensure that those pothole be fill . rather than a pothole tax , may I thank he for the pothole fund ? finally — [ interruption . ] I will not give a " finally " , but he be very welcome to visit . bring a spare tyre ! as I struggle with my Lenten observation , I need no lesson about spare tyre — it be all about try to get rid of spare tyre , as far as I be concerned . I be grateful for my right hon . friend ' s comment . the Wrekin be a part of Shropshire that I know well . those sum can and should be use by upper - tier authority , which be the highway authority , to ensure that their network be work well , smoothly and safely . that benefit all , and the Government be put up the money to allow they to do that . I call the shadow Secretary of State . public service worker and local leader across the country be work incredibly hard to improve their local area and provide vital service , so rather than the beg bowl culture that make they bid for money , will the Minister take forward Labour ' s commitment for a long - term , more secure funding settlement to allow they to plan for the future ? I be intrigue by what the right hon . Lady proffer to the House . only a few week ago , in the debate on the local government finance settlement — none of her colleague apart from the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , who chair the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , and those on the Front Bench could be bother to turn up and speak on it — the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , who be sit next to she on the Front Bench , say : " as I will come on to say shortly , we will have a review to look at the long - term plan . we understand the problem that local government be face . " — [ Official Report , 7 February 2024 ; Vol . 745 , c . 326 . ] may I say to the right hon . Lady that part of the job of be in opposition be to work out the policy that she may want to deliver in government ? Islamophobia what step he be take to tackle Islamophobia . we have be clear that anti - muslim hatred have absolutely no place in our community . I feel that strongly , as I represent one of the most diverse constituency in the country . we have provide over £ 6 million to the anti - muslim hatred monitoring and support service tell MAMA , and just shy of £ 13 million to scheme protect mosque and faith school . funding for both measure have be uplifted in response to increase reporting since October . an extreme right - wing Conservative MP be allow to go on an extreme right - wing Conservative - funding tv station and make a series of vile Islamophobic remark . the MP be not suspend for Islamophobia ; he be suspend for refuse to obey an order from his party leader . do the Minister understand why it be that , not only among muslim community but across a much wide range of believer and non - believer , people be become increasingly concerned that , in the eye of this Government , Islamophobia be see as somehow less abhorrent than other form of racism ? the Government be absolutely clear that those be not appropriate comment . that be completely clear . any form of religious hatred be not acceptable in our society . the recent rise in anti - muslim hate incident and crime be really worrying . will the Government do everything they can to improve education so as to improve multi - faith understanding and tackle this scourge ? my right hon . friend make a good point . education be critical , and we need to bring our community together . last weekend , I be delighted to attend an inter - faith event in my constituency that include Holland Park synagogue , where it be host , and al - Manaar mosque . that inter - faith work and community work together be critical . I call the shadow Minister . for almost two year this Tory Government have fail to appoint an independent adviser on Islamophobia . the former adviser have criticise the Government for their failure to engage , and reveal that he could not even get they to provide term of reference for his role . do the Minister agree that this Government lack the political will to tackle this pernicious hatred , or even to call it out ? I strongly disagree . we plan to appoint a new independent adviser on anti - muslim hatred , and we will update the House shortly . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . like so many , I be fearful of the inability to call out Islamophobia become a scaremongere tactic to stoke fear and division and garner support for the extreme far right . it make life difficult or even dangerous for Muslims . across all four nation , more can and should be do on a cross - party basis to tackle that hatred . that start with be able to call out Islamophobia when it occur . could the Minister clarify the line between be wrong and be Islamophobic ? there be no question but that those comment be wrong . I face the Mayor of London in opposition all the time , and I could criticise he for many thing — housing , policing , fire or transport — but I would never accuse he of be in any way under the influence of Islamists . that response will give people little comfort . let I paint a picture for the Minister of what life be like for many Muslims grow up and live across these four nation . a month after the 9 / 11 attack in 2001 , my local mosque in Carfin be petrol bomb . the two man be sentence to one year and nine month respectively . if ask , most Muslims will have their own story . Muslims be not ask for special treatment . they work , pay taxis , send their kid to the same school and support the same football team . the Government have have ample opportunity over the past few week to commit to tackle this stain on society , but there have be no substantial change in policy . next Friday 15 March mark the UN ' s International Day to Combat Islamophobia . will the Government use that opportunity to commit to adopt the definition of the all - party parliamentary group ? I want to make it clear that this Government will not tolerate religious hatred towards Muslims or any other faith group . that be a red line . this government be aware , very sadly , of incident of anti - muslim hatred , which be why we put in place an extra £ 4 . 9 million of protective security funding for muslim mosque , faith school and community . we be 100 % behind our muslim community . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of section 21 eviction on level of homelessness . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of section 21 eviction on level of homelessness . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of section 21 eviction on level of homelessness . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of section 21 eviction on level of homelessness . the Department publish official statistic on homelessness duty owe , include the number of household threaten with homelessness follow service of a valid section 21 notice . we be commit to the abolition of section 21 through our landmark Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which will deliver a fair private rent sector for both tenant and landlord . in 2019 the Government promise to abolish section 21 no - fault eviction , but the Bill that they finally publish five year later , which the Minister mention , do not actually abolish section 21 no - fault eviction . meanwhile , 140 , 000 child be live in costly temporary accommodation . in my constituency we get one or two case every week . the problem be pile up . when will this Government do what they promise — stop delay , stop dither , and abolish no - fault eviction ? as I have already say , we be absolutely committed to abolish section 21 . the Renters ( Reform ) Bill be go through Parliament and I look forward to debate it with the hon . Lady when it return to this House . my borough of Enfield top London ' s league for section 21 eviction last year , set a grim record and result in a dramatic rise in homeless family approach the council for help . at its peak , the borough have 400 family approach the council for help in one month , yet minister be unwilling to stand up to their own Back Benchers . the Minister say the Government be commit to abolish section 21 eviction . can I please ask he when ? when will he bring the Bill back , so we can bring an end to no - fault eviction ? I pay tribute to the hon . Lady , who I have hear campaign on this issue a number of time . I be well aware of her concern for her constituent . as I say , we be absolutely committed to abolish section 21 . we will bring forward the Bill as soon as we be able to do so . I would also say to she that the Mayor of London be not build enough home . he be not build enough home to meet the government - assess need for London . he be not even build home to his own target , so I encourage she to have a conversation with he as well . in Salford , from April to November last year , approximately 466 individual present to Salford City Council in crisis because of section 21 notice . Salford ' s social housing waiting list be currently in the thousand . private market rent be outstrip income and local housing allowance rate at a frighteningly exponential rate . there be no affordable home to go to once someone be evict from a property , so homelessness be now at acute level in Salford . this be not just a housing crisis ; this be a homelessness crisis in Salford . when be the Government go to bring back the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , with robust amendment finally ban section 21 eviction ? what action will the Minister take to ensure that my constituent urgently have long - term secure tenancy ? again , I have hear the hon . Lady talk about this issue a number of time . we be absolutely committed to the abolition of section 21 . I be personally committed to that . we will bring back the Bill as soon as we be able to do so . I call the shadow Minister . in resist labour ' s effort to strengthen the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , Ministers have repeatedly argue that the legislation as draft strike precisely the right balance between the interest of tenant and those of landlord , yet by water down protection for renter and far delay the long - overdue abolition of section 21 eviction , the package of draft Government amendment to the Bill that we see last week will tilt the play field decisively back towards the landlord interest . be we to believe that the Government have honestly decide , at the 11th hour , that it be landlord who need more right and power , or be this not simply a crude attempt to manage an increasingly fractious Tory party at a shameful cost to hard - press private tenant ? the hon . Gentleman , like various member who have speak , be a committed campaigner on this issue . I enjoy our time together in the Public Bill Committee . we need to strike the balance he have just speak about . that be why we be discuss the Bill with both landlord group and tenant group . we be meet colleague on the Government Benches and the Labour Benches , and those in the small party , too . we be ensure that when we bring the Bill back it be in the good possible shape so that it afford protection and security for tenant , but protection , in fairness , for landlord too . Flood Recovery Framework what his planned timescale be for review the flood recovery framework . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . I be pleased to report that the review of the flood recovery framework have already begin and I expect the work to be complete by autumn this year . we will , of course , update Parliament in the usual way when that review be complete . my constituent Lucy own Ride leisure event on Wyboston Lakes , which flood again during Storm Henk . she can not get insurance and her business be not entitle to compensation under the flood recovery framework because of the Government ' s arbitrary decision to expect cash - strap council to cover the cost if few than 50 property be impact . it be very unfair that my constituent have fall through the safety net . she will not be the only one , with property in Kempston regularly affect by flooding . will the Minister crack that anomaly in the framework and help my constituent save her business ? I be sorry to hear about that case , and if the hon . Gentleman wish to write to I give detail of the business , I will of course look into it . as for Storm Henk , 2 , 241 property have be identify as eligible for grant support . that cover 16 upper - tier local authority , and to date payment of £ 788 , 743 have be report by authority to impact householder and business . there always have to be a rubric in these case , and this issue will be consider during the flood recovery framework review , on which , as I have say , we will report back to the House . however , the offer be there : if the hon . Gentleman wish to write to I , I will happily look at what he have to say . Whiston have be flood repeatedly over the past decade , and there be a huge ongoing issue , but Rotherham council recently approve the building of 450 new home there . Whiston Parish Council , which be independently align and thus not party political , call a special public meeting about the plan , which show water run uphill — which I believe it do not do — and floodwater drain into a non - existent stream . this surely demonstrate that Rotherham Council do not understand the issue of flooding . do my right hon . friend agree that all council , include Rotherham , have a responsibility not to build on floodplain ? my hon . friend have raise an important issue . between they , the local planning authority and the Environment Agency should always find the most appropriate site for development and take hydrology and water management into consideration . the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) , will have hear what my hon . friend have say , and may contact he in due course . private road whether he have have recent discussion with local authority on adopt private road on new estate . the adoption of road be largely an issue for my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport , who lead on that policy , but I know — because we have speak about this in the Committee consider the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill — that the hon . Gentleman have a significant interest in this matter . we understand the strength of feeling about it , and we be consider it far . across the country , homeowner in a state of adoption limbo be be leave expose to exploitative and often unaccountable management company . despite their warm word , sadly the Government do not take any of the action that the Competition and Markets Authority urge they to take in order to end the issue of fleecehold once and for all . give that the Secretary of State be rumour to be on the lookout for legacy accomplishment , will the Minister urge his colleague to finally act on this issue during the current Parliament , or will fleecehold be yet another issue leave for the next government to tackle ? with the good will in the world , the CMA report be publish a few day ago , and the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill have be progress through the House for a number of month before that . as for the hon . Gentleman ' s specific point , I hope he will accept , as other member , include his colleague , have do , that the Bill be a significant improvement for estate management , provide the right of redress to a tribunal , further information and the right to absolute clarity on service charge . all those change have be rightly demand by resident , and we be consider carefully whether there be anything furth than we can do . Town Deals what step his Department be take to support the delivery of town deal . my Department be engage with all town deal recipient to support delivery through our performance monitoring process , and we have a particular interest in progress in Ipswich follow the allocation of £ 25 million , secure by the hon . Gentleman , for 10 project there . I be very grateful for that investment . as the Secretary of State will know , my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) have to intervene because of the slow production of the business case . we get over that hurdle , but sadly , year later , we be still desperately wait for delivery on the ground . when body other than the Labour - lead council be responsible for project , they be deliver — no problem — but when the council be in the drive seat , what we see be no delivery . whether it be cock - up or conspiracy , it be not good enough . will the Secretary of State please intervene to let the council know that it be not right to put politic before the delivery that the people of Ipswich so desperately need ? my hon . friend be a bonnie fechter for Ipswich , and he be absolutely right about , for instance , the local shopping parade project and the former R & W Paul Silo building . I be afraid that we have not see the progress that we would expect . it be indeed the case that the Labour Council in Ipswich be not deliver for the people of Ipswich in the way that my hon . friend so brilliantly do . I think that the Secretary of State ' s Government be introduce all these deal in order to help the part of the country that be struggle and where more people on low earning live . like he , I have be look carefully at who be get the money . why do so much of it go to Tory marginal seat ? be that fair ? first , Ipswich be an area that deserve investment — an area that have be overlook and undervalue under Labour Governments . secondly , on Friday I be proud to be able to announce additional investment in a mass transit system , which will enable the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent in Huddersfield to travel more quickly across West Yorkshire to Leeds and Bradford . sadly , it be the case at the moment that we do not have conservative mp in Leeds or Bradford , but we know that the labour marginal seat in Leeds and Bradford , and of course the marginal seat of Huddersfield , will very soon have conservative representation . Community Ownership Fund what the eligibility criterion for the community ownership fund be . what the eligibility criterion for the community ownership fund be . the £ 150 million community ownership fund be open to voluntary and community organisation or parish , town and community council from all part of the United Kingdom that have a viable plan for take ownership of a community asset at risk and run it sustainably for community benefit . so far , we have award £ 71 million to 257 community project , include £ 1 million to Gigg Lane , the home of Bury FC . detailed guidance on the criterion be available in the prospectus on gov . uk . Silsden Methodist church in my constituency have not be use for worship for some time , but it be a really important community space , where a wide range of community group meet regularly . sadly , I understand that the Methodist Church may now sell the building , threaten the future of these group , but Silsden Parish Council have manage to have the building list as an asset of community value . could my hon . friend tell I whether the community ownership fund might be a suitable source of funding to secure the future of the building , or which other fund the parish council should be look at ? it sound as though the church be eligible , but I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss eligibility far . applicant can bid for up to £ 2 million in capital funding from the community ownership fund , with additional revenue funding available , but in the first instance I would recommend that interested applicant read the prospectus on gov . uk , as this will cover all they need to know regard eligibility requirement , funding available and the application process . would my hon . friend consider amend the criterion for community ownership fund application to include the potential community purchase of redundant council asset ? it would bring back to life many publicly own building and space that be currently serve no purpose or be underuse . I thank my hon . friend for his advocacy for the fund and for his constituent in Bury . the community ownership fund work alongside exist community asset transfer and support they by fund the cost of renovation and refurbishment . we can not fund the cost of purchase publicly own asset where the public authority would credit a capital receipt , except in the case of parish , town and community council , but I be happy to meet he to discuss this issue far . in many community in Westmorland , the pub be the centre of the community and be often under threat . in some case , the local pub — such as the Ship Inn in Sandside — have close down altogether . the community ownership fund be clearly a very good way of allow the community to bring such business back into public use , but do the fund allow community to go through the process of compulsory purchase , so that a building can be take from an owner who be unwilling to sell and make useful again for the local community ? I think the CPO process be probably a bit too lengthy for the fund itself , but I be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman to discuss the project directly . we be very happy to help fund community pub through the community ownership fund . the Citizens theatre in Glasgow be a much - beloved institution and have be undergo refurbishment for several year . it have have a range of funding from Glasgow City Council , the Scottish Government and Historic Environment Scotland , but , due to inflation and various measure , it still require additional funding to make up the balance and complete its really significant refurbishment programme . be the community ownership fund something that the Citizens theatre might be able to avail itself of ? once again , it sound as though the theatre may be eligible . I can not comment on its eligibility today , but I be happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss whether the fund be appropriate for the Citizens theatre . Local Authority Finance what step his Department be take to help ensure the financial sustainability of local authority . we have make available up to £ 64 . 7 billion for local authority through the local government finance settlement for 2024 - 25 — an above - inflation increase of up to £ 4 . 5 billion , or 7 . 5 % in cash term , on 2023 - 24 . of course , that include an additional £ 600 million of funding , which be announce by my hon . friend the Minister for Local Government on 24 January . aside from pothole , the issue that have cause the most angst for Derbyshire County Council be the significant rise in the cost of residential placement for look - after child . the council believe that the market for this be now completely out of control and that price be excessive . be there more that the Government can do to help council financially to pay these bill or to find a well way to structure that market so that the bill be not so high ? my hon . friend make an important point . we be spend £ 500 million additionally on adult and child ' s social care , but he be right to say that the cost of residential home for look - after child be excessive , and a number of private equity firm be operate like bandit in this area . I have talk to the Minister responsible , the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) , and action will be forthcoming . I call the Chair of the Select Committee , Clive Betts . the Select Committee recently produce a report on local government finance in which we say that the Government must act now if local authority be to survive this severe crisis . what have the Secretary of State do ? he have ask every local authority to produce a productivity plan . that sound a bit like advise council how to spend well the money they have not get . he have ask local authority to identify " way to reduce wasteful spend " . what do he think they have be do for the last 13 year ? in particular , he have ask they to identify waste on " discredit staff equality , diversity and inclusion programme " . how much do he think that will save when it come to avoid section 114 notice ? the Chairman of the Select Committee be right to say that local government be face challenge , but there be outstanding council — North Lincolnshire and South Norfolk , for example — that be continue to ensure that they can build up surplus and deliver effective service . that be because they put productivity first . there be some local authority , lamentably , that be not put productivity first . they include South Cambridgeshire , with its plan for a four - day week , and St Albans , which be still spend money on discredit form of training that only increase division rather than bring community together . it be no coincidence that both those local authority be Liberal Democrat . property Repairs : recourse for Renters whether his Department be take step to ensure that there be appropriate recourse for renter if property repair and safety concern be not adequately deal with by landlord . where landlord fail to keep their property in an acceptable condition , local authority can issue improvement notice and impose penalty for non - compliance . social tenant can already access the housing ombudsman service , and the Renters ( Reform ) Bill will establish a new landlord ombudsman service so that private tenant can also seek free redress . while these change in legislation be welcome , it be clear that more must be do . too many rental and leasehold resident in my constituency face ongoing issue in ensure that landlord and freeholder face up to their responsibility . will the Minister work with I to ensure that my resident in precarious situation with unresponsive landlord or leaseholder be able to access the correct course of remedial action in a timely and effective manner ? I will indeed work with my hon . friend to ensure that his resident , who he be such a brilliant champion for , can access redress . we be committed to protect tenant from the minority of landlord and agent who provide a poor service . where a property be manage by an agent , resident can seek redress through the property ombudsman or the property redress scheme , as well as the housing ombudsman for social tenant and the new ombudsman for private tenant . the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill will require freeholder who manage their property to join a redress scheme , too . too many child across the country be still be hospitalise because there be mould in their private rent home . repair and concern especially about mould be the subject of Awaab ' s law , which be be bring in , but private landlord be be let off the hook . will the Minister consider support my private Member ' s Bill to extend Awaab ' s law and ensure that private landlord fulfil their responsibility to fix mould ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the time we have spend together discuss her private member ' s Bill . through the Renters ( Reform ) Bill we be introduce a new decent home standard for the private rented sector , which I believe cover the majority of her Bill , but I would be happy to continue those discussion with her far . Norfolk Devolution Deal what step he be take to implement the Norfolk devolution deal . my Department be support the implementation of the Norfolk devolution deal , which be progress well . Norfolk County Council , under its brilliant leader , intend to vote to change its governance in July , lead to the election of a directly elect leader in May 2025 . the Budget , in a couple of day ' time , could do two thing for Norfolk . first , it could announce the county deal to give Norfolk control of its future . even more importantly , it could provide the vehicle for my Sheringham roundabout , which the Secretary of State know all about . the roundabout will be wonderful for my North Norfolk constituency , so have he convince the Chancellor to announce it yet ? I can not reveal the nature of any discussion I have have with the Chancellor , but Sheringham roundabout be one of the single most important infrastructure investment in Norfolk . my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) have convincingly make the case to I , and I hope we will be able to get motor on it before too long . Social Rented Housing what step he be take to increase the provision of social rent housing . our £ 11 . 5 billion affordable housing programme will deliver thousand of affordable home for both rent and purchase right across the country . the levelling - up White Paper commit to increase the supply of social rent home , and a large number of the new home deliver through our affordable home programme will be for social rent . in Bolton , 20 , 000 people be on a housing waiting list . there be an 18 - month wait for a three - bedroom house and , on average , 800 to 900 people apply for each home that come up . family be often refer to the private rent sector , which they be not able to afford — we know that rent be sky high . after 14 year of this Tory Government fail to build affordable home , will the Minister now apologise to my constituent who be stick in temporary accommodation ? the hon . Lady mention the last 14 year . well , since 2010 , we have deliver over 696 , 000 new affordable home , include over 482 , 000 affordable home for rent , of which 172 , 000 be for social rent . we be commit to build more home for people like her constituent . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . on Friday , at the convention of the north , I be delighted to confirm enhanced devolution deal for the Liverpool city region , West Yorkshire and South Yorkshire and additional investment in Blackpool , Sheffield and Blackburn . that include £ 1 . 5 million for Tony ' s Empress Ballroom , which — as you know , Mr Speaker — be an iconic northern soul dance hall . I look forward to visit it with you and the shadow Secretary of State soon . on the dancefloor tonight ! a constituent recently come to my surgery with her seven - year - old son to show some appalling photograph of the private rent accommodation in which they live . the little boy ask I whether he be go to die because of the thick mould in his bedroom . give the housing ombudsman ' s recent remark , particularly emphasise the link between housing condition and health , what urgent action will the Secretary of State take to address the appalling situation in the private rent sector ? we will shortly say more about the decent home standard and the extension of the ombudsman ' s power to deal with precisely the sort of situation that the hon . Lady raise . my local housing association , Flagship Newtide , have sell off three more home in Aldeburgh at auction since the last levelling up , Housing and Communities question . however , it be fail to take action on the antisocial behaviour that be affect several of my constituent in Saxmundham . what power can we apply to make sure that people who do the right thing and want to live peacefully in their home be not surround by people who deal drug , breed illegal pet and make other people ' s live a misery ? tackle antisocial behaviour be a priority for this Government , which be why we have publish our antisocial behaviour action plan , back with £ 160 million of new funding . we have commit to a " three strike and you ' re out " ASB policy , and landlord will be expect to evict tenant whose behaviour be disruptive to neighbour . my right hon . friend will be pleased to know that , from 1 April , the social housing regulator will require registered provider of social housing to work with the appropriate local authority , the Department , the police and other relevant organisation to tackle antisocial behaviour . I call the shadow Minister . this week ' s Budget will be a big one for young people — 16 and 17 - year - old — who be start work or make important education choice , yet they currently have no say on who will be the next government . we on the Opposition Benches believe in our young people . will the Government act now to give 16 and 17 - year - old a say in the next general election ? the hon . Lady make a case for lower the voting age — one that I do not support and the Government do not support . the age of 18 be see as the age of maturity in this country and many other across the world . it seem to have serve we pretty well up to now and I see no particular reason to change it . will the Minister join I in congratulate South Staffordshire Council on serve an enforcement notice to rebuild the Crooked House pub ? will he also look favourably at measure I will be bring forward to ensure that heritage pub be well protect , because , as he will know , the Crooked House and many other have have no protection at all ? my hon . friend make an important argument , and the case of the Crooked House reinforce what he have long campaign for : well protection for heritage pub . I look forward to work with he and Lord Mendoza to achieve just that . the Secretary of State be a strong supporter of green urban space , so will he urgently meet I to discuss the ancient Haven Green , which be currently under threat and on which he be due to make a decision soon ? obviously , I can not speak to the hon . Lady about specific planning application . I do cherish urban green space , but I also cherish more home be build in London . it would be regrettable if she be to be a blocker , not a builder . since my election , I have urge Wolverhampton City Council to focus on city centre living , to bring footfall back to our city centre . what more can the Government do on that ? I be delighted that the council be now change its plan , but how can we get upper storey convert as well , to really bring that footfall back ? my hon . friend be a brilliant champion for Wolverhampton and for Wulfrunians everywhere . in particular , she have be the single most effective voice in attract investment to the heart of Wolverhampton . she be right to say that , as well as commercial investment , we need new residential opportunity , and our extension of permit development right should provide just that . will the Minister for the Union tell I what discussion he have have with devolve administration , and with the Chancellor , on the very important matter of infected blood compensation ? do he recognise the frustration and dismay from many campaigner at the delay ? they have wait almost a year since Sir Brian Langstaff report on his compensation framework . the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point . those who have suffer as a result of the infected blood scandal be , of course , in the forefront of our mind . this be directly a Cabinet Office responsibility , but I know from my time there how seriously the Ministers charge with that responsibility take it . I will talk to they and update the devolved administration on progress towards appropriate compensation . the Government be to be commend for take through the first leasehold reform for 20 year , but as the Bill now go to the Lords , will minister go far and agree : first , to empower the 3 million to 4 million people trap on fleecehold estate ; and , secondly , to fundamentally end this scammy , dodgy , corrupt model once and for all ? my hon . friend make an important point about make sure that we strike the right balance . we have bring forward significant reform in the Bill , but I be happy to continue to talk to he and other member who be interested . the Government continue to look at what more can be do . last week we see , for a second year run , rough sleeping number up by more than a quarter — that be a lot of people to criminalise if the Criminal Justice Bill remain unamended . More than 100 , 000 household , include 140 , 000 child , find themselves stick in temporary accommodation , yet the mere mention of temporary accommodation see Ministers pivot away from the subject entirely . this should be a source of shame for this Government . so where be the national plan to end all form of homelessness ? I sincerely hope it be not in the same place as the Government ' s plan for end section 21 eviction . this Government have a clear plan that we introduce last year : end rough sleeping for good . we announce £ 2 billion behind it and the figure be now £ 2 . 4 billion . we be give unprecedented amount of money to this very important task . Haden Hill leisure centre in my constituency be to be part rebuild and part refurbish by a £ 20 million investment from the levelling - up fund . do the Minister agree that the Department need to continue to be engage with the local authority , which be appoint contractor , to make sure that this project get deliver on time and on budget ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for his constituent . I be happy to meet he to discuss the delay as soon as we can . the project adjustment process be available to the council if it need to use it . in 2010 , total wealth per head in the north of England be 16 % low than in the rest of England . last week , the Institute for Public Policy Research release a report that estimate that by 2030 , this gap will have grow to 21 % . can the Secretary of State confirm that this Government ' s policy have achieve level up ? I be delighted to be in West Yorkshire on Friday outline the additional investment that we be make in that region . the agreement that we have reach with the Mayor of West Yorkshire , Tracy Brabin , will see significant additional fund go in to help with housing , adult skill and transport , all of which will contribute to a revolution in devolution that have occur under this Conservative Government . rural area be particularly vulnerable to the high energy cost we have see in the last two year . they be 150 % more vulnerable to fuel poverty . do my right hon . friend agree that council on the frontline of high rural cost be see a spate of homelessness ? great council , such as Breckland Council in my patch , be now spend 50 % of their net budget on relief . would he support I in urge the Chancellor to increase that relief in the Budget on Wednesday ? my hon . friend make an important point . we be concentrate on ensure we can level up the north and the midland , but we also need to recognise that level up encompasse make sure that those in rural area , who contribute so much to the life of our nation , be support through the challenge that the cost of living crisis have generate . will the Minister advise I how many people take up the offer of the former help to buy ISA scheme ? have another such scheme be consider to allow young people to get on the seemingly impossible first rung of the property ladder ? as a government , we continue to bring forward as many intervention as we can to support young people to get on the housing ladder . some 800 , 000 first - time buyer have manage to do that since 2010 . I be happy to meet the hon . gentleman to talk more about the point he have make . today , the Charity Commission issue new guidance for charity that refuse to accept donation . that come after the Royal National Lifeboat Institution turn down a donation from Dungarvan Foxhounds supporter Club in the Republic of Ireland . decline a donation from a lawful source may not be consistent with the legal duty of trustee to " further their charity ' s purpose " . will my right hon . friend support the right of community throughout the British Isles to donate to charity of their choice ? my right hon . and learn Friend , the former Attorney General , raise a very important point . we want to do everything we can to encourage charitable giving . I will look closely at the case he mention , and raise it with the Cabinet Office and Orlando Fraser KC , the distinguished chair of the Charity Commission , who be do such a good job . there be business in York that have not be able to trade for over four month because of flooding . the flood recovery framework preclude they from get fund , whereas those in the Tory shire be able to access fund . will the Minister meet I to discuss the fact that business in my constituency can not get funding ? let we find a way forward so that they do not miss out . yes . councillor will not be cover by the newly pass Neonatal Care ( Leave and Pay ) Act 2023 and be at risk of lose extra responsibility allowance if they have a child who spend time in neonatal care . will the local government Minister issue guidance to council , ask they to ensure that all parent be protect if their councillor find themselves in those most difficult of circumstance ? my hon . friend have work on this campaign . we speak about it last week and I understand entirely the merit of the argument he make . so powerful be he as an advocate that I have already put work in hand to deliver what he be talk about . on the community ownership fund , it be welcome that the match funding requirement for local organisation have be reduce to 20 % . in future round , could the criterion around match funding take account of prior investment by the community , such as the very many small donation that people in the Axe valley area give to build Seaton community hospital ? that be an interesting idea . I be very fond of the Axe valley , so I will look at it . 1244 be the date of the first market charter award to Wellington in Shropshire , in my constituency . in the last three year , £ 3 million from the town fund , £ 10 million from the levelling - up fund and £ 800 , 000 from a fund I can not remember have provide record investment from this Government into the 800 - year - old market town of Wellington . the Labour council have just take over the market , so will the Secretary of State please ensure that the council do not mess it up ? we will do everything we can . Wellington be very lucky to have such a brilliant advocate . I hope my right hon . friend sit on the green Benches for many year to come , but when he be transfer to another place , he deserve to be the next Duke of Wellington . Independent Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Office if he will make a statement on the publication of 13 report by the former independent chief inspector of border and immigration on 29 February and how the inspectorate will now operate in the absence of a chief inspector or deputy ? we recognise that independent scrutiny , such as that provide by the independent chief inspector of border and immigration , play an important role in ensure that we have an effective immigration system . in January , the Home Secretary make a promise to the former chief inspector to publish all overdue report as soon as possible , which I repeat in the House last month in response to an early urgent question . last Thursday , we deliver on that promise by publish all 13 report that be outside the eight - week commitment to review and respond . we take ICIBI report seriously and we do not wait until publication to act on its finding . indeed , some of the report ' recommendation have now be implement and work be ongoing across the Department to implement other . that include action to strengthen border security and improve the system for process asylum claim . the final two report from the former chief inspector will be publish in the established eight - week period . there be no requirement for a chief inspector to be in place for that to happen , but the process of appoint his replacement be under way , with the advert go live the day after the former chief inspector have his appointment terminate . an appointment will be make follow robust competition , in accordance with the governance code on public appointment . in addition , we be look at option to appoint an interim chief inspector . we will , of course , update the House on the outcome of the appointment process . we will also continue work with the right hon . Lady ' s Home Affairs Committee in relation to these matter . the security and effectiveness of the UK border be of paramount importance . the Government recognise that , which be why we have take wide - range action to tackle illegal migration and reform our asylum system . our effort be pay off , but there be more to do . we will never compromise on this . we will always put the safety and interest of the british people first . I agree with the Minister that the role of the independent chief inspector of border and immigration provide indispensable scrutiny of vital Home Office function . on Tuesday 20 February , the Home Secretary sack David Neal . eight day later , the Home Office publish 13 of the 15 report that the chief inspector have submit during his tenure , none of which have be publish within the agree eight - week deadline follow receipt . the report raise multiple serious concern about the Home Office ' s handling of border security and immigration operation . will the Minister confirm what action be be take to address the report finding that the protection of border at airport be " neither effective nor efficient " , with border post be leave unstaffed ? what step will the Minister take to remedy the serious failure identify in attempt to discover illegal good at airport ? do the Minister accept the conclusion that attempt to clear the legacy backlog at all cost " have lead to perverse outcome for claimant and staff " , with quality assurance " sacrifice for increase productivity " ? with the new chief inspector not expect to be in post for six to nine month , and with no deputy to step up and exercise statutory responsibility , will the Minister explain exactly how the inspectorate will operate during that period ? be all inspection work now on hold , and what happen to the inspectorate ' s 30 - plus member of staff ? last week , David Neal tell the Select Committee of his concern regard Wethersfield asylum accommodation centre relate to suicide , violence and the lack of expertise to manage the situation . will the Minister now agree to the Committee ' s request to visit Wethersfield ? the Committee last week publish the 10 change that David Neal think need to be make to improve the effectiveness of the inspectorate , include the power to publish its own report , create a deputy position , and provide access to commercial contract enter into by the Home Office . do the Minister have any plan to implement any of those recommendation ? finally , will he comment on the joint letter send by seven national home affair editor complain about the decision to publish a slew of Home Office report on the same day as the Sarah Everard report ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee not only for ask those various question but for the opportunity to respond to today ' s urgent question . it be rather surprising that minister be be criticise for do precisely what they say they would do . I be press a couple of time on when the report would be publish . I say that it would happen soon . I subsequently say that it would happen very soon , and that commitment be fulfil . I give the right hon . Lady this undertaking , because this issue be important and I care about it , as I know she do : the two outstanding report will be respond to in full and in the proper way within the eight - week window . I refer back to the commitment that my late friend James Brokenshire make to the House . she will appreciate that I come back to the Department in December . I would argue that we have make progress in publish the report . I assure the House that the exist report that have not yet be respond to will be deal with within the eight - week window . we will return to that approach in deal with these matter , which be the right thing to do . on the recommendation in the various report , we have obviously respond to those report . a number of recommendation have be accept , a number have be progress , and a number have be complete . the report speak for themselves , and give an indication of the direction of travel that we intend to take . we also want to engage with the next inspector regard that performance , to ensure that they have an important role in oversee the delivery of the commitment that we have make in response to the issue that be understandably raise in the report . general aviation fall within the report that be still to be respond to . as I say , that will happen within the eight - week window . I undertake to fulfil that commitment . on the asylum backlog , it be fair to say that there have be pressure from this House to get on and process asylum claim . I would argue that the team have do remarkable work in deliver on the commitment to get on and process the legacy backlog . there have be much learn along the way , which we will take forward into future processing . there will be increase sampling in the way that the inspector recommend , as well as improvement to it . arrangement for the ICIBI function in this period be under consideration . the Minister for counter Illegal Migration be the lead on that aspect of the Department ' s work . I know that Ministers will update the House accordingly . I be happy to consider the request from the Home Affairs Committee to visit Wethersfield . one of the most frustrating thing about all of this be that if Mr Neal have not go to the medium in the way that he do and put that information into the public domain in a way that be in breach of the term of the agreement that he have with the Department to take on this capacity , he would still be in post and would be able to engage in the dialogue this week . to follow up on some specific question from the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee that the Minister do not pick up on , be it not the case that David Neal be dismiss by team call by a civil servant ? why be he not afford the courtesy of see a Minister ? be it not also the case that , despite the recruitment process have start last November , no suitable candidate come forward and the post have to be readvertise at a high salary ? thirdly , the Minister have not mention anything about how the inspectorate actually operate . be it not the case that the 30 civil servant be unable to carry on their work on the report they be currently work on , unable to carry out any inspection , unable to pick up the schedule of report that have be program , and unable to comment on any response to the report ? finally , can the Minister assure I that there be no redaction and nothing be remove from the 13 report publish en masse last week , because there be no inspector or deputy inspector to challenge the content of the report that have be put into the public domain ? on my hon . friend ' s final point , I will go away and check , and I will write to he . this be clearly an important function . the recruitment process be restart the day after Mr Neal leave the role . we be keen to make progress in appoint a new independent chief inspector of border and immigration , and I encourage people to put themselves forward . it be an important role , and the government value it . the relationship with the icibi will be in the term that I set out : it will get on and publish report within the eight - week framework for the exist workload . we will continue to work constructively with it when Mr Neal ' s successor be appoint . the second permanent secretary be engage with the administrative team at the icibi , and we be look at what can be do in the interim to bridge the gap between Mr Neal leave and the new inspector take post . I call the shadow Home Secretary . we think of the family and friend of the seven - year - old who lose her life in the channel this weekend . it matter more than ever that we stop the criminal gang and dangerous crossing that be undermine border security and put so many life at risk . the Tory Home Secretary have shamefully try to bury or hide 13 inspectorate report and one National Audit Office report with damn revelation about Britain ' s border , and now he have go into hide himself . he should be do a statement on those report , which show shocking border security failure , include border and custom post not staff . in one airport , the inspectorate be tell , " custom be shut down for the summer " . it find that equipment be " either break , not available , or untrusted " , and that there be " a lack of anti - smuggling capability " . Mr Neal say that " protection of the border be neither effective nor efficient " . will the Minister tell we how many time custom and border post have go unstaffed this year ? do he even know ? how many high - risk private flight be not check in person ? how long will there be no inspector in post ? More finding : only two people have be remove under the inadmissibility process that the Government claim would cover ten of thousand , and 147 unaccompanied child who go missing have still not be find . on Rwanda , £ 400 million of taxpayer ' money will have be spend even if no one be send . if 300 people go , it will be £ 580 million . that be over half a billion pound on a scheme that will cover less than 1 % of UK asylum arrival — nearly £ 2 million per person . I say to the Minister : do not give we any garbage about the Tories have a plan . that be not a plan ; it be a farce . why do they not stop waste that money and instead put it into rebuild border security and stop the criminal gang ? that be Labour ' s plan . finally , there be the revelation that the Home Office have go a shocking £ 5 billion over budget this year because it fail on the backlog , on return , on hotel and on Rwanda — 14 year of Tory Government , waste taxpayer ' money , weaken Britain ' s security . they have bust the Home Office budget and break Britain ' s border . instead of hide and run away , why do they not just get out of the way and let someone else do the job properly ? that be a contribution to the House full of soundbite , as ever , but light on policy substance . we hear time and again from the right hon . Lady and her colleague a lot of criticism of what the Government be do and absolutely no credible policy alternative in response . it be incredibly frustrating . it just will not do , and the british people see straight through it . I share the right hon . Lady ' s sentiment about the terrible incident at the weekend when that young girl lose her life . in the last few week , we have yet again see life lose in the channel , and that be a source of regret for all of we . that be why the Government be absolutely determined to put an end to these channel crossing . we be make progress — that be why the number of crossing last year be down by over a third compare with the year before , and albanian arrival be down by over 90 % — but there be more work to do , and we will continue to see through the plan that be deliver those result . the right hon . Lady mention Rwanda . we have a fundamental point of difference in that the Government believe that the Rwanda policy be an important part of the answer in put those evil criminal gang out of business . it be not acceptable to spend £ 8 million a day in the asylum system . however , it do not take many spend of £ 8 million a day to get to the figure that have be provide to the NAO in a transparent manner . we will continue to publish those through the annual report and account . we think that advance that policy and put those criminal gang out of action be the right thing to do , recognise that the policy be novel and have be challenge . she will , of course , have the opportunity to vote for the Rwanda legislation when it come back from the other place , and I certainly encourage she and her colleague to be in the Lobby with we , because it just will not do to have no credible plan . the right hon . Lady refer to one of the comment make in the report . we do not accept it . the inspection cover only a small part of our border operation at a specific location and over a limited time period — it be a snapshot — and it be inappropriate to draw unsubstantiated wide conclusion through sweeping statement base on a three - day inspection . ultimately , Border Force facilitate 132 million passenger arrival last year , process over 96 % of passenger within service standard . significant progress have be make since the report be commission to increase the number of officer train in vulnerability and behavioural detection , and that be set to continue . we treat the inspector ' s recommendation with the utmost seriousness ; we get on and deliver on those recommendation and , as I have consistently set out to the House , we now have a commitment to respond to those report within eight week . follow on from that point , there be clearly an issue with publication within eight week . bear in mind that the public purse be fund 30 civil servant and a chief inspector of immigration , have my hon . friend consider a statutory basis for the eight - week requirement — or whatever requirement be necessary or proportionate — for the publication of such report , to ensure efficiency in the system ? in his usual way , my hon . friend come to the House with constructive suggestion for how the Government can go about their work . I be happy to put that suggestion to the Minister who lead on these matter in the Department . I can absolutely assure my hon . friend that there be a commitment to engage with the report within that eight - week window , which I would argue be within both the letter and the spirit of what the late great James Brokenshire say a few year ago . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank David Neal for his work . nobody can doubt that he be an independent chief inspector of border and immigration , and his report bear testament to that work . he call out the Home Office for be particularly poor at communication , and for its datum be " inexcusably awful . " in relation to Border Force , he highlight " basic stuff not be do " . he shine a bright light on the shoddy treatment of unaccompanied child in hotel , some of whom be still miss to this day and have not be find by the Home Office . he highlight the " lack of grip and poor leadership " that result in those child become lose . he also highlight the chaos and the secret policy be operate as part of the afghan citizen resettlement scheme — utterly unacceptable . what happen now to the plan inspection that be stick in limbo ? those inspection include adult at risk , which be crucial as people have commit suicide in asylum accommodation . small boat be all the more critical give the tragic loss of a seven - year - old wee girl just this week . on high - performance visa , on Rwanda , on Georgia and on age assessment , what will happen to the work plan that the chief inspector set out , and to the staff — expert inspector — who be in place to deliver it ? will David Neal ' s recommendation be take on by whoever follow he in that post ? what will the Department do for future report ? next time a report be publish , will the Minister make a statement to the House , rather than be bring here by an urgent question ? I be very grateful to the SNP spokesman for that variety of question . I too , actually , want to place on record my thank to Mr Neal for the work that he do — [ interruption . ] there be chuntere from Opposition Members , but it be perfectly right and proper to thank he for his work . there be recommendation that the Government have accept and be take forward . we treat the outcome of those report with the seriousness that they warrant . we will continue to work through those recommendation ; even in the absence of an icibi , we will continue to make progress against our commitment . obviously , we want to get on and appoint a replacement for Mr Neal , and that process be under way . we want to do that as quickly as possible , while also make sure that we properly engage the Home Affairs Committee in that process , and we will do so in the way that that Committee would rightly expect . it be welcome that we no long have any unaccompanied asylum - seek child hotel under the auspex of the Home Office , but the recommendation that be make within the report still stand and , again , we treat they seriously . as I say at an early Home Affairs Committee appearance , I treat trace miss asylum - seek child with the utmost seriousness , and with well relationship with the police , improve guidance and other step , we have manage to track down more of those child since we meet at the Home Affairs Committee . we continue to see Afghans arrive under the ACRS . that be welcome , and we will continue to evolve that scheme and make improvement where we can . we have make commitment around the scheme , and it be of real importance to I : fulfil our promise to those who work with the British Government and to other be a responsibility that I take incredibly seriously . I want to make sure that we go about this recruitment process in the proper way , involve the Home Affairs Committee . the second permanent secretary be leading engagement with the secretariat at the icibi , and we will get on and appoint a successor . I pay tribute to David Neal . it be fair to say that when we do his pre - appointment scrutiny at the Home Affairs Committee , we have doubt , but he have prove himself to be a diligent and dog public servant in some of the most difficult circumstance . notwithstanding the fact that he have not be reappointe , the 13 report that have be publish raise significant issue , whether that be the border at London City airport , afghan resettlement , or child asylum seeker . even though those report have only just be publish , what assurance can the Minister give that work have be undertake on they ? will he also give I his thought on the excellent suggestion that the post should be make independent so that the chief inspector can publish report when they be ready , rather than drop they into the Home Office memory hole and hope for the good ? my hon . friend be a diligent member of the Home Affairs Committee . it be fair to say that where recommendation be make , we engage with they constructively , and progress will quite often be make against those recommendation even in advance of report be publish . he can absolutely have an assurance from I that we will continue to work through the commitment that we have make in respond to various recommendation in those 13 report and , have make this promise to this House , that future report will be publish within an eight - week window . my hon . friend have raise a point about procedure . I be happy to take that point away and raise it with ministerial colleague who have direct responsibility for the icibi relationship . as colleague have say , the Home Affairs Committee find Mr Neal to be a very diligent and commit public servant . do the Minister share the chief inspector ' s concern about unaccompanied child migrant ? he report on they play very unsuitable game — try to bet which one of they would be the first to go into foster care — and on their age be overestimate , result in child share bedroom with much old adult . do the Minister propose to follow up on any of the issue that the chief inspector raise ? the right hon . Lady should know that that be an area we have be very concerned about . the issue of unaccompanied asylum - seek child should never , ever be the subject of a game . I think all of we be horrified to hear about that incident , and follow those inspection finding , the Department launch an immediate investigation into the inappropriate behaviour of the support worker , who be remove from site immediately and do not return . as I have say , all seven hotel use to accommodate unaccompanied asylum - seek child have since close . the Department have take the recommendation seriously , and there be a lot of learn there for the future as we take forward our work , include our wide work with local authority on safeguard the most vulnerable child . I welcome the Minister ' s early assurance about Afghans who fight with or otherwise support our troop against the Taliban . can he explain , for the benefit of those of we not au fait with the detail of this dispute , for what reason these report be not publish early , and at what level the decision not to publish be take ? have they be publish soon , would the inspector have be out of a job , and would we have be look for a replacement ? we have go into the termination of the inspector ' s appointment before in this House : he lose the confidence of the Home Secretary , and information be share in the medium that ought not to have be share ; it be confidential , and outside the appropriate publication process . on the publication of report , I can not speak to early decision make under previous Ministers , but I say very clearly on a number of occasion that we would get on and respond to the report , and that be precisely what we have do . I also reassure the House today — I think this be important , and that the House be interested in this point — that we will respond to the report within eight week . that arguably live up to both the letter and spirit of the commitment that James Brokenshire make all those year ago , when he hold this role . these report be , cumulatively , a remarkable catalogue of past failing , but may I invite the Minister to look ahead ? he have refer to the Rwanda scheme ; do he agree that the incoming independent inspector must be allow to examine the working of that scheme , and that it should not be implement unless and until the next inspector have give it a satisfactory bill of health ? it will of course be for the next inspector to decide on their programme of work , but I disagree with the right hon . gentleman on his latter point . I would argue that life be at stake , and that every day that people lose their life in the channel be one day too many . we be make progress on see through our commitment to put an end to these channel crossing , but the Rwanda policy be absolutely front and centre ; it be the next piece of the jigsaw when it come to put these evil criminal gang out of business , and we should not wait any long than be absolutely necessary to get on and deliver on that work . the Rwanda policy have cost over £ 500 million — an approximate cost of £ 2 million for each individual the Government be seek to transport to Rwanda . will the Bill ever be implement , and be it good value for the taxpayer ? I hear a lot of criticism there , but no constructive suggestion on what the hon . Gentleman would do in the absence of the Rwanda policy . as I have say , we engage properly and thoroughly with the National Audit Office on the figure , and we continue to be commit to provide transparency around those figure through the annual report and account . the Rwanda policy be an important part of our answer when it come to put an end to these criminal gang and the terrible criminality that they oversee . crucially , this be about save life , and we will get on and deliver the policy . he will , no doubt , have the opportunity in the next few week to vote for that Bill , and so help we to operationalise that policy and put those evil criminal gang out of business . the border inspectorate find that staff work in a Home Office - run hotel make unaccompanied asylum - seek child play a disgraceful game to find out which child be next to be place in foster care , a practice certain to cause more distress to already traumatise child . the same report find that agency worker employ to look after child as young as nine have insufficient background check and training . what have the Minister do to ensure that he understand the full extent of the risk to child in the asylum system , and what step be he take to end such disgraceful practice , and to guarantee that everyone work with child be properly vet and train ? the hon . Lady be right to say that everybody work with child have to be properly vet . we have take seriously the recommendation that Mr Neal make in response to that issue . as I say to the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , this be a terrible situation . there be accountability in relation to the individual who think it appropriate to play that game , which be , to any Member of this House and any right - minded person , abhorrent . the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) be right to say that we be talk about child in difficult circumstance who have be through an awful lot . all those individual — I would use the word " professional " — have a responsibility to care for those child , and to behave in an appropriate way befit their role . there be no long any unaccompanied asylum - seek child in hotel open under the Home Office ' s remit , but there be value in the recommendation , which should carry through into the work that we do with local authority . the Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner , Dame Sara Thornton , raise concern about Government policy on trafficking and slavery . her contract be not renew , and that crucial post be vacant for 16 month . David Neal , as the icibi , raise concern about immigration , and he be sack . that post will be vacant for month . the Minister have say that independent scrutiny play an important role , but do he not agree that under this Government , independent scrutiny be not only not value , but become a sackable offence ? I have be clear with the House about the basis on which Mr Neal ' s contract be terminate . I do not think it be appropriate for he to share confidential information in the way he do ; it be outside the process for publication . however , as I have say repeatedly , we want to get on and appoint a successor . the chief inspector of border and immigration have an important role and remit ; the House and the Government see value in it . we be look at what can be do to bridge the gap in the absence of a full - time , permanent chief inspector . we will no doubt say more once that work have be conclude . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Africa , I meet David Neal a number of time . he be incredibly impressive , robust , well - inform , all over the detail , and entirely independent . it beggar belief that the Government ignore his report for so long — publication be essential for scrutiny — sack he over Teams , and dump all the report out at once . do the Minister believe that the Home Office be so perfect , and that everything be go so well , that it should be above scrutiny ? or be it more the case that everything be go so badly , include on Rwanda , the asylum backlog and our border security , that there be no hope of improvement until we have a change of Government ? that be an interesting observation , but what sit behind it , I be afraid , be a lack of policy and a lack of an alternative , credible approach to border and immigration . Mr Neal say this in response to the report be lay before Parliament last week : " I think it ' s a real positive that these report have be publish . I think it bode well that the home secretary have grip his official in get these report publish so quickly " . I agree with he . I promise that we would lay those report before Parliament ; we have get on and do it , and we will table the outstanding report within the eight - week window , move forward . last week ' s figure show 46 , 000 people still in asylum hotel . David Neal ' s report say : " there be no evidence of a Home Office strategy to end hotel use , as recommend by icibi in 2022 . " he be right , be he not ? I be afraid that what be right be that the hon . Lady consistently vote against the strategy to end the use of hotel , as do her colleague on the Opposition Front Bench and Back Benches . the way to address the issue of hotel be : to diversify the accommodation offer ; to ensure that local authority area engage properly with dispersed accommodation — I encourage all member of this House to take an interest in the performance of their local authority — and to bring into be large site , such as those that we have bring forward . crucially , we have to reduce the flow of people come across the channel and arrive in our country illegally . every time Opposition member have the chance to do something about the flow of people arrive , which undoubtedly lead to the pressure that she touch on , they refuse to do so . that be where the scandal really lie . be the Government ' s failure to tackle the asylum backlog , the Minister ' s inability to grapple with the asylum hotel issue , or the staggering cost of the Rwanda deal , at £ 2 million per person take out of this country , the reason why the Minister have break the Home Office budget , and will come to Parliament cap in hand next week , ask for an extra £ 5 . 5 billion of funding for the Home Office ? I be afraid that the hon . member be yet another Opposition Member with no credible alternative to speak of — just lot of complaint about the work that the Government be do . we be make progress . as I have say , last year , the number of people who arrive via the channel be down by a third compare to the year before . the population accommodate in hotel be go down , and the number of hotel open be reduce . five billion pound . the Government be make progress . we be live up to the commitment — five billion pound . the hon . member can keep parrot figure and chuntere from the Back Benches , but I would rather he come forward with a credible alternative plan . perhaps then we could have a conversation . the shamble that be the ongoing mismanagement of our border and the Government mismanagement of the huge asylum backlog , which be just refer to , be now enhance by the additional shamble of an unnecessary interregnum . in answer to my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , the Minister seem to imply that independent oversight would not be necessary in the next few week and month while there be an interregnum over the Rwanda deal . if the Government be right — in the good - case scenario , from their perspective — 1 % of all asylum seeker will go to Rwanda . apparently , that be so important that independent oversight be not necessary during this period . will the Minister confirm that until a new inspector be formally and fully appoint and in post , there will be no further progress in deport anybody to Rwanda ? it be rather ironic that the hon . Gentleman argue for due process on the one hand , and say that we should dispense with it on the other . the contract of the chief inspector of border be terminate because of respect in which his action be not in accordance with the agreement around the post . that be not an acceptable situation . the Home Secretary lose confidence in he , and that be why step be take . I welcome oversight and accountability . there will be opportunity for scrutiny of the work on Rwanda . on the point that the hon . Gentleman seek to suggest that I have make , I be clear in say that we should not waste any time when life be at risk in the channel . we should not waste a moment in get on and operationalise that Rwanda policy , but there will of course be plenty of opportunity for scrutiny of that work . may I put on record my thank to the Minister for all the work that he do for one of my constituent last week , and for ensure that one of the ukrainian baby get back to Northern Ireland ? we should bear in mind the gap that have be leave in this vital component of our immigration response . on the role of civil servant and the importance of ministerial oversight , most recently , the difficulty in Northern Ireland , where there be an absence of Ministers in situ , be that although senior civil servant could make decision , they be loth to do so ; and those who make decision do not provide the usual accountability or explanation of decision . how will the Minister ensure that that do not remain the case until a replacement for the independent chief inspector of border and immigration be in place ? the hon . Member always go about his business in the House diligently , and he speak with great passion about Northern Ireland ; I be delighted that we now have Ministers back in government there . I look forward to engage with counterpart in Northern Ireland on these issue . I reassure he that that engagement will be the cornerstone of the work that we do . there be a commitment to engage thoroughly and extensively . as I say , we want to get on and appoint a replacement inspector ; it be an important role for everybody in the United Kingdom . the function that the inspector oversee matter to everybody the length and breadth of this country , and we will make that appointment as soon as we can . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I extend my thank to your office and to the Clerks for prepare for this point of order . on Friday 1 March , during the debate on the Conversion Practices ( prohibition ) Bill , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) speak of the need for LGBT member and staff to feel safe come to work in this place . in response , I ask she : " in fact , people in the LGB community be often refer to as " bigot " , " transphobe " and other slur just because we have concern about legislation such as this and want to make sure that young LGB people be protect — and trans people . do the hon . Lady agree that that rule must apply to all side of any debate , not just to the side that she favour ? " the hon . Member respond : " the hon . Gentleman be entirely right , but there be one letter miss in his LGB : the letter t . we do not divide the LGBT community in this place . member can say that they have concern about what we be do , but by remove the t , the hon . Gentleman be suggest that transgender people do not exist . he be suggest that they be less than other LGB people , and I will not stand for that , because it be trans people who stand with gay people at Stonewall ; it be trans people who fight alongside they for LGB right . I will happily discuss the intricacy of legislation with the hon . Gentleman , but when he choose to eradicate , that be wrong . " later in the debate she make the follow comment about the UK ' s only gay right charity : " that include the LGB Alliance , who have also remove the t " . — [ Official Report , 1 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 556 . ] that raise the follow serious concern . despite specifically mention the safety of trans people immediately prior to ask my question , the Member launch into what feel like a target attack on my character . furthermore , it feel like that be aggravate by my protect characteristic of same - sex attraction and gender critical belief . in addition , the Member , a heterosexual woman , feel it appropriate to lecture I , a homosexual male , on the boundary under which she believe I should be permit to exercise my right and protection . specifically , she demand that this should centre the need of the completely separate protect characteristic of gender reassignment — commonly know as force - team . the Member then give an inaccurate account of the stonewall riot , which have be correct repeatedly by eyewitness testimony . as a direct consequence , various news outlet have wrongly accuse I of " drop the t " and have ignore the context of a straight woman lecture a gay man about what right he be permit to use . give the sensitivity of these matter , that be deeply concern . I have have five year of abuse , include murderous threat , mainly from heterosexual who claim to be ally — but they be ally of queer theory , not lesbian , gay man , bisexual or transsexual people . that outburst feel deliberate and target . I consider these behaviour emblematic of the modern - day homophobia that have be insinuate into our culture by organisation such as Stonewall and Mermaids . in response to the clip on social medium — order . I hope the Member will be come to an end very quickly . Mr Speaker , this be the text that be agree with the Clerks . in response to the video clip on social medium , prominent transexual campaigner Dr Debbie Hayton say : " we tran people value the right to organise separately from the LGB as trans people . my LGB friend need and deserve the same right to organise separately from we . we can still organise together when it serve both group . nobody be ' less ' " . a statement issue by the Gay Men ' s Network note that the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ' s comment be " not characteristic of an otherwise civilised debate . we urge she to reflect on these comment and consider apologise . " I agree . at the very least the Member should apologise — not just to I but to other who may feel threaten by her remark . any further consideration will be contingent on that . after the debate , two member — the Members for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) and for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) — both give inaccurate account of the outcome of the day ' s debate , lay blame for its failure at the door of opponent . the truth be that the Bill fail to garner sufficient support in the closure motion propose by the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) . again , in this sensitive policy area , that show a lack of concern for the safety of all member , and risk whip up target harassment . these post should be remove and the Members should apologise . thank you . I be very disappointed that the Clerks agree to such a long text . this be an important issue and the hon . member be quite right to raise his concern , but I be concern about the length of time it have take . I therefore hope that I will be speak with the Clerks . I be grateful to the hon . member for his point of order and for give notice of it . I hope he notify hon . member that he intend to refer to they in the Chamber . hon . member be responsible for the content of their own speech , provide that they remain within the House ' s rule of order . I understand the strength of the hon . member ' s feeling , but the Chair hear nothing disorderly in the remark make by the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) on Friday . he be correct in his observation that the Conversion Practices ( prohibition ) Bill do not make further progress because few than 100 member vote for closure . it be also true that the House continue to debate the Bill until the moment of interruption , which be unusual , although member be entirely within their right to do so . I thank the hon . member again for give I notice . farming I beg to move , that this House have consider farming . I be delighted to open the debate on behalf of the Government , but I be also incredibly proud to speak on behalf of the many thousand of farmer I represent . hon . and right hon . member may be confuse as to why I be open the debate , but it be precisely because the Government believe in the importance of our Union and the industry that sustain it that I be here this afternoon . the Government understand that farming drive rural Britain . it generate job and growth in rural area . my constituency of Brecon and Radnorshire be home to proud beef , sheep and poultry farmer — 365 day a year , they produce world - class food that be good for our health , good for our economy and good for our environment . that bring I to the key reason I be here today . a fortnight ago , the Prime Minister tell the National Farmers Union conference that we , the conservative party , will always have their back . to farmer across England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland , I give that commitment again . farming have unique potential to address the world ' s big challenge : feed a grow world , reduce emission and restore nature . those huge task have be complicate by the recent reality of volatile global price , as well as by change in weather pattern and climate , but to address the long term , it be the immediate challenge that need to be deal with . the Government have be work to tackle one of the big drain on farm income . inflation be down from 11 % last year to 4 % now . beyond those immediate challenge , we have a plan for support british farming , bolster by the Prime Minister ' s announcement a fortnight ago . the plan to back our farmer have three element . first , we be invest in farmer . our commitment to farming be absolutely solid and every penny of England ' s £ 2 . 4 billion annual farming budget will be spend on farmer across this Parliament . in England , we be step away from the bureaucratic and dysfunctional common agricultural policy . instead , our new system focus on long - term food security by support and invest in the essential foundation , from healthy soil to clean water . our plan be start to pay off , as nearly half of all farmer be now in one of our scheme in England . January 2024 bring about the big upgrade to farming scheme since Brexit give we the opportunity to design our own agricultural support . a fortnight ago , the Prime Minister go far still to support farmer . he announce our big ever package of grant , expect to total £ 427 million in 2024 . I recently visit Andrew Gilman at Statfold Farm . he have a biomass boiler , he have solar panel on the roof and he even have a wind turbine , but what he want from the Government be help with mechanise the milking process — he want some robot . be that the type of thing the Government would support ? I congratulate my hon . friend on raise that point , and I congratulate Andrew on his innovation . that be exactly the type of thing that the Government want to support , which be why we have announce the big ever package of funding — as I have say , about £ 427 million . I look forward to debate this subject with the Minister in Westminster Hall tomorrow . I think that the Government have leave themselves open to the accusation that they have neglect farmer ’ interest in the post - Brexit trade deal that they have sign . what assurance can she give the House that in future trade deal the interest of farmer will be at the top of the pile ? I would not want to give away all my good line before tomorrow ' s debate in Westminster Hall , and I look forward to see the hon . gentleman there . I will say , however , that I do not agree with his assessment of the trade deal that the Government have be able to strike outside the European Union . they represent real opportunity for farmer across England and Wales , and he would do well to support they . I thank the Minister for her commitment to farming as a whole across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . that be important to we in Northern Ireland , include my constituent . will the Minister commit herself to work with the regional Administrations — and the Northern Ireland Assembly be now up and run , with a new Minister — to ensure that we can work together within this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? together , we can do great thing . the hon . Gentleman be entirely right . I be certainly commit to work with Ministers in all the devolved Administrations of the United Kingdom in my role in the Wales Office , and I know that DEFRA Ministers be as well . on innovation , we have a grant package upgrade that will make a concrete difference to british farm , for example by bolster the improve farming productivity fund , which will allow farmer such as Andrew — mention by my hon . friend the Member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) — to invest in robotic equipment and barn - top solar . secondly , we be change our approach , and build a culture that be base on trust . farmer have ask for a fair and more supportive regulatory system , so in England we have reform our approach and have already cut penalty for minor issue by 40 % . we have end the harsh EU cross - compliance system , instead choose a fair and more preventative approach to regulation . no one care more about the land , or the ability to pass on a healthy farm to future generation , than farmer themselves . this be about more than just pass on a farm ; it be about produce food for the nation , and we be proud that our farmer do that . can my hon . friend confirm that this Government will always back farmer as food producer rather than wildflower grower ? my hon . friend hit the nail on the head . what we be seek to deliver be a combination of the two , certainly in England . farmer deserve that trust , and we have announce that we will deliver on our promise to cut the planning red tape that be prevent they from diversify . in April we will introduce legislation enable they to create big farm shop , commercial space and outdoor sport venue . farmer have raise the issue of the often unfair pricing that they receive for their product , so a fortnight ago we introduce new regulation for the dairy sector , and we be also launch a review of the poultry sector . we will introduce similar regulation for the pig sector later in the year , with regulation for the egg sector to follow . I hear what the Minister be say , and she be make a powerful point , but in Exmoor we have a national park that stop everything happen . we need to get the national park under control . they will not allow farm shop , and they will not allow development . sheep farmer on Exmoor have enough trouble as it be without be tell that they can not let holiday cottage , set up farm shop or apply for planning permission . could we please make an exception for the national park so that they can join the real world ? I live in a national park as well , in mid - Wales , so I entirely understand my hon . friend ' s frustration . the matter that he have raise will , of course , be one for Ministers in DEFRA and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , but I know that the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , have hear his point . I be a strong supporter of the recent initiative of the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister to make food grow far more important . what be the target for get much more self - sufficient in food , and will it not need further reorientation of the money away from the environmental land management scheme and wilding , and towards proper food promotion scheme ? my right hon . friend pre - empt I . I will certainly come to talk about that point in just a few moment , but let I first talk about further reform that the Government be introduce , particularly in the field of farm mental health . we will make up to £ 500 , 000 available to charity to deliver project that support mental health in the farming sector , build on the support already on offer through our farming resilience fund , which have benefit more than 19 , 000 farmer to date . mental health in agriculture be a key concern for the Department , so much so that my right hon . friend the Farming Minister regret that he be unable to be with we at present , as he be host a roundtable on mental health in agriculture . I know that shadow Ministers will agree that that be a commendable thing to be do . altogether , the work to change our approach will build a well and more supportive system around farmer , so that they can get on and do what only they do well . before I talk about our final strand of work , I want to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) . today his campaign for online retailer to carry a specific " buy british " button have achieve another success , as Ocado have become the late retailer to adopt the tool , join morrison , Aldi and Sainsbury ' s . I congratulate he on his campaign . food security be a vital part of our national security . the primary role of farmer be to produce the nation ' s food , and they deserve our gratitude for that — a point echo to I on many occasion by the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) , who be away on a Select Committee visit and unable to join today ' s debate . recent year have bring home the truth of that , particularly in an age of climate change , instability and increasingly volatile global food production . uncertain time require we to double down on the certainty of our food system . in the Government ' s food strategy , we set a clear commitment to maintain domestic food production at the current level at least , which be around 60 % of what we consume . the importance of food security be why we bring in the three - time - a - year food security report through the Agriculture Act 2020 . go far , the Prime Minister announce a fortnight ago that , give the context of the last three year , we will significantly strengthen this work through a new annual food security index . climate change be increasingly likely to impact on the sector , with more extreme weather event , so it be only right that we step up our monitoring of food security to ensure that we can act swiftly and decisively against any in - year shock . we expect the work to be UK - wide and will work to achieve that , strengthen accountability across England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . how do the emphasis about which the Minister be talk square with the sustainable farming incentive activity ? they arouse considerable concern in the farming community that it would almost be a well and more pay proposition for they to give up farming altogether under the SFI scheme . be my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) , who intervene on the Minister a while ago , not right to say that what we have to do through the SFI be start to consider how we encourage people to produce food and not encourage people not to produce it ? my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right to emphasise and underline the importance of food production . DEFRA be actively monitor the take - up of SFI scheme with food production in mind , so he raise a key concern that I believe the Department be already address . go far , last year the Prime Minister host the UK ' s first farm - to - fork summit at Downing Street , put industry leader at the sharp end of policymake for the first time . we will make this an annual occasion , and this year ' s summit will consider the publication of the first food security index . finally , million of tonne of perfectly good farm food be waste each year — throw away simply because of shape or size . it be unfortunate that that be still the case , even in 2024 , so we have announce that we be bring in a £ 15 million fund to redirect the huge amount of surplus food to those in need . that £ 15 million will be available directly to farmer or the redistribution sector , work with farmer . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , if I may . boost and strengthen our food security be paramount , and our action stand in stark contrast to those of the Labour party . farmer in Wales have become used to an uneasy relationship with Welsh Labour over the last 25 year , but as member may have see , frustration be turn to anger follow the publication of the Welsh Government ' s sustainable farming scheme , which be nothing short of unworkable . instead of farmer be free from the burden of red tape , they will be force into an atrocious set of data - gathering and report on a yearly basis . they will be force to submit datum on the amount of medicine they give their animal and the rate of lamb loss in their flock . they will have to submit soil sample and even datum on worm number and seed receipt . the scheme will require every farmer to do six online training course each and every year , and most controversially of all , it will force farmer to take 10 % of their land out of production to plant tree , harm our ability to feed ourselves . last week a number of farmer travel to Cardiff Bay to protest against these change . these protester be not extremist or conspiracy theorist , as Labour MPs label they last week . they be raise legitimate grievance about the viability of their business under the Welsh Government ' s plan . colleague in England will know that this Government have take decisive action to tackle bovine TB . in 2013 , under the coalition Government , a badger cull be introduce in England to tackle the appalling rate of bovine TB in cattle . those of we who represent beef or dairy farmer know the pain of bovine TB . it be one of the most difficult and intractable animal health challenge the livestock sector face today . ten of thousand of cattle be cull each year after test positive for the disease . this have a devastating personal impact on livestock owner and their family . here I must declare an interest . in 2013 , when work for the National Farmers Union , I volunteer to work on the pilot badger cull in Somerset . we work 12 - hour shift in a portacabin at a secret location , as anti - cull saboteur would follow we home at night . that pilot result in a 37 % reduction in bovine TB breakdown , and across the way in Gloucestershire we deliver a 66 % reduction . that show that cull work . farmer in my constituency in Gloucestershire have be involve in the cull probably long than anyone else , except perhaps those on the Somerset level . could my hon . friend give they an assurance today that we will not introduce measure that restrict cull and their after - effect until we have a realistic vaccine programme in place that be actually see to work ? my hon . friend be right . this be part of a three - pronged approach that Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be plan to take and we will continue to be lead by the science . no country in the world have ever be able to grip the scourge of bovine TB without tackle the disease in wildlife . the science be clear : the tide be turn on bovine TB in England and a major element of this success have be the industry - lead cull of badger in affected area . my hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) be right to say that Somerset start the cull , and the intimidation I and other receive at the time be appalling , but we weather it . I say to the Minister and Members across the House that the cull work because farmer lead it . farmer be absolutely determined to do it , have survive foot and mouth at the time I become an MP , and then have go into TB . farmer be responsible ; they understand the countryside and understand what they be do . where TB and other thing be concern , I urge the House to give the farmer the benefit of the doubt . they look after the land and they manage it well . I could not have put it well myself . cull be part of a three - pronged approach that DEFRA have take to tackle bovine TB . field trial for a new cattle vaccine and companion skin test for bovine TB start in 2021 and remain ongoing . if the Welsh Government have any ambition for farming in Wales , they would have the backbone of this government and introduce a cull in Wales , but their weakness in the face of this issue be cause alarm and panic in the Welsh livestock sector . instead of a cull , they have a First Minister who tell they it be their fault . labour ' s Mark Drakeford tell the Senedd that the disease spread when farmer import infected cattle . this be despite farmer work desperately hard to maintain good biosecurity measure . this be a First Minister who also think that farmer be entirely responsible for poor water quality . the all - Wales nitrate vulnerable zone , introduce in 2021 , be an unworkable piece of legislation that have do nothing to improve our river . instead , it force farmer to farm to a calendar , spread muck only on certain date — never mind the weather . nvz , bovine TB and the sustainable farming scheme be all example of an ill - thought - out policy from a Government determine to set their face against farming in Wales . in contrast , the record of the UK Conservative Government be clear . our plan be to invest in farmer , to change our approach and to protect food security . meet farmer face to face in north Wales a fortnight ago , the Prime Minister again make it clear that we have their back . this government will always support and be proud of british farming . I commend this debate to the House . I call the Opposition spokesperson . I start by congratulate Tom Bradshaw on his election as president of the National Farmers Union . I be sure he will do a fantastic job , and I wish he all the good as he start his new role stand up for our british farmer . he have big wellington boot to fill , of course , after the outstanding job do by Minette Batters over the past decade — I be sure the whole House wish she the very good in her future endeavour . recent year have be very challenging for farmer : the covid pandemic ; the Government ' s botch EU withdrawal deal ; Putin ' s brutal invasion of Ukraine ; and now war in the middle east . each of these shock have underscore how vulnerable our food supply chain really be , and how dependent we be on our great british farmer . food security be national security . in recent year , british consumer have see empty shelf in local supermarket , while food price rocket by 19 % at their peak last year . we need to get resilience back into the system , and at the heart of that must be a commitment to back our british farmer . I have the pleasure of attend the NFU conference in Birmingham last month and the Oxford farming conference in January . Speaker after speaker make it clear that british farming be in crisis , and that farmer feel abandon by this Government . over 6 , 000 british producer have go bust since 2017 , and the agricultural workforce become a third small over the same period . labour shortage mean that valuable crop have be leave in the ground to rot . the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution , the farming mental health charity , alarmingly report that suicide rate among farmer be the high of any sector in the UK economy , thank to the huge pressure that farmer be now under . this be heartbreaking , and it should concern every one of we . the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , the right hon . member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) , be unable to be here today , but I be glad that he be focus on work with stakeholder on an issue of such importance and magnitude . flooding be among the top issue raise at the NFU conference . farmer have face one of the wet six - month period on record , with many winter crop still not plant and other wash away or under water . farmer need well flood defence . it be astonishing that so much of the allocate funding have not be spend over the past two year . I visit Retford in Nottinghamshire and be astonish to learn that , of the £ 11 . 7 million allocate for flood defence over the past two year , less than 0 . 5 % of it have be spend . there be a severe failure of co - ordination between central Government and the agency responsible for get spade in the ground to dig out the drainage system , to build the flood barrier and to plant tree upstream to help the land hold more water . the shadow Minister be make some interesting point . I have probably have more flooding on the level than anyone in this House . one of the big challenge we face be the intransigence of the Environment Agency and Natural England , which be quite impossible . the hon . Gentleman make a powerful point , but one of the reason we be find it difficult to build up the defence , to clear out the rhyne and ditch , and to maintain the clyse and dam be that the Environment Agency and Natural England will not give way on make every single thing impossible . I have be wait for a barrage in Bridgwater since 2014 . we really must break this logjam . I gently say to the shadow Minister that we be all on his side if he can help to do it . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention ; he make an important point about the experience of flooding in his part of the country , which , sadly , be reflect in other as well . the Government , whoever might be lead they , need to get a grip of these agency and work more closely with they . that be why Labour have propose that if we be elect , we will introduce a flood resilience taskforce to bring together national and local government , and the frontline agency that he refer to , to make sure that once funding be allocate it be actually spend to protect our farmland and rural community from the devastating impact of flooding . would it not be a well idea to scrap these agency all together and hand responsibility back to Ministers , where it originally be , because the agency that be now employ to do this be often do thing completely against Government policy and , in particular , against farmer ? the answer , which be quick than play around with the architecture of agency and national Government , be for the Government to get a grip . these agency be responsible to national Government and I would like to see much strong command from national Government to make sure that they do what they be set up and fund to do . they be clearly not do it to anything like the extent or with the quality that member from all part of this House expect of they . a second point I wish to raise be that Vladimir Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine have send energy price rocket . that expose the Government ' s failure to transition to cheap , home - grow energy . as a result , soar energy bill have clobber british farmer and producer . labour ' s approach would be very different . we will switch on GB Energy to cut bill for farmer , household and business . that publicly own company will direct public and private investment to harness the power of wind , wave , solar and nuclear energy , to cut bill , create job and secure energy supply chain inside our own country , free we from dependence on foreign dictator like Putin . we can also help farmer who want to generate clean energy on their own land . under this government , it can take up to 10 year to get planning permission to connect this desperately need energy into the national grid . labour will reform our planning law and cut that wait from year to just month . the Government ' s bungle transition from European Union farming payment have be another source of financial misery for farmer . far too many have see income plummet as the basic payment scheme be phase out . Tenant farmer , in particular , feel that the new scheme do not work for they . the principle behind environmental land management scheme make sense , but the implementation have be chaotic and bureaucratic . instead of tackle the weakness in ELMS , the Government have instead shuffle their foot and try to claim the credit for reallocate a £ 220 million underspend . that money should have be give to farmer in the first place and not return to the Treasury , but at the core the Government ' s failure be to have never develop a clear strategy for land use , include food production . our land management scheme should support move towards regenerative farming and nature recovery , alongside food production . instead of do that , the Conservatives be increasingly position themselves against nature . their attempt to trash environmental standard to legalise the further pollution of already polluted river and waterway be shocking . we have a limited amount of land for the size of our population in this country . we need a land use framework to make sure that the many compete demand on our land can work in balance . this Government have fail to produce one . in government , Labour will introduce one . the Conservative Government stubbornly refuse to publish interim datum show what impact ELMS be have . the Guardian have use a freedom of information request to expose how the Government bury an analysis of the dire financial prospect for upland farmer after they realise it be almost entirely bad news . we need to know what be go wrong with ELMS so that we can make they work more effectively . if this government will not publish that information , an incoming Labour Government will , if we win the next general election . we have to make sure that policy work for food production , as hon . member have already say , as well as for nature , which mean be open and transparent about what be really go on . farmer be furious about the Conservative Government ' s post - Brexit trade deal . [ interruption . ] I see the Minister be shake her head . the outgoing president of the National Farmers Union — not a member or supporter of the Labour party — call the Government ' s approach " morally bankrupt " . the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , until recently a senior member of the Cabinet , have call for the import of hormone - inject beef and chlorine - wash chicken . that be not just alarming for british consumer ; it would be catastrophic for british farmer . we can not demand high welfare and environmental standard from our british producer if the Government then undercut they with low quality import , yet that be the approach this Conservative Government have take . the Government ' s own assessment say the Australia and New Zealand trade deal will result in the loss of £ 48 million from british agriculture and fishery , so no wonder the former Environment Secretary , the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , attack the deal as " not actually a very good deal for the UK " , because , as he rightly say , it " give away far too much for far too little in return " — [ Official Report , 14 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c . 424 . ] I be indeed very critical of what be do with the Australia trade deal , but since he be raise this issue , will he at least give credit to the current Government and Prime Minister for the steadfast approach they have take on deal with Canada and the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership ? [ interruption . ] it do seem a bit late , doesn ' t it — the Government have do a deal of the nature the right hon . gentleman attack ? it seem to depend which of the five family happen to be in charge of the conservative party at any one time as to what they be go to do on agricultural , trade or any other policy . they be a rudderless Government , but it always seem to be british farmer and producer on the lose end of whatever deal they come up with . the Government ' s broken promise on trade go back much far than the deal the right hon . Gentleman criticise . the Government promise farmer they would keep full access to the european market for their high - quality british produce after Brexit , but then they throw up trade barrier that block they from export . labour ' s way forward be to seek a renegotiated veterinary agreement with the EU . we must cut through tory red tape at our border to get british food export move again . our country spend over £ 1 billion a year buy food for hospital and prison . labour will make sure that at least half of that food be locally produce or certify to high environmental standard , put money straight into the pocket of british farmer and producer at a time when so many be struggle just to stay in business . we will devolve more decision making to the nation and region of the United Kingdom . that will give they more control over skill and training to increase and upskill the farming workforce , and more control over infrastructure investment so that we can extend broadband in rural area and the use of new technology in farming to boost productivity . labour be offer a new deal for farmer : low bill from harness the power of clean energy , generate in our own country ; more money in farmer ' pocket through the prioritisation of locally grow and sustainable food for public procurement , and ensure ELMS work effectively ; seek a veterinary agreement with the EU to tear down the tory barrier to trade ; a flood resilience taskforce to protect farmland from devastating flood ; and plan reform to help farmer diversify and plug their clean energy into the national grid . farmer do an extraordinary job as producer of our food and steward of our land , yet they have be betray by this Conservative Government . british farmer deserve well . they deserve our thank , respect and support . we be proud of our farmer — proud of the work they do to feed our nation and steward our beautiful countryside — but they need a Government who be on their side to help they in that vital work . after 14 year of conservative failure , only Labour can give farmer their future back . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , although I suspect that he have more customer or consumer in his constituency than farmer . in North Herefordshire , we have 1 , 715 of probably the good farmer in the world . [ interruption . ] oh , no , there ' s no doubt about that . the joy of Herefordshire be that we grow every crop that the UK produce ; whether it be raspberry , which come from Scotland usually , or hop from Kent — we do it all . no other county can make that claim . as a result , I have have to spend an awful lot of time with a variety of highly expert and very skilful farmer as they explain their particular element of the industry . I agree with all member who have say how important farmer be , but their trouble do not seem to be see as such . the bad case , of course , be bovine tuberculosis . it have be 10 year since the badger cull begin to tackle the transmission of TB — and it have be an enormous success . TB plague the agricultural sector and , by 2020 , as many as 30 , 000 cattle be die each year from this terrible disease . I lose my bull to it , so I know how devastating it can be for farmer across the country . thank to the culling of sick badger , which carry the disease to cattle , 24 % few cattle be kill in 2022 - 23 relative to the precede year . in fact , the number of death be the low it have be since 2008 . the beneficiary be not just the farmer and their cow , but a healthy badger population that be therefore less likely to be expose to this fatal disease . with that rate of success , I fear the Government ' s move away from cull to a badger vaccination programme be premature and potentially disastrous . a reactive cull just will not work , because once DEFRA have decide that there be TB in the badger population , all the cow be dead ; it do not work , it be not good enough and it will not cut the mustard . the Department need to rethink very carefully what will happen . we have see a 54 % reduction in this disease , and we have learn from covid that we should not take away the precaution that be work before we be ready to bring in the new DIVA test — the differentiating infect from vaccinate animal test . that test allow the BCG vaccine to be apply to cattle , and for the cattle that be vaccinate to be separate from the cattle that be infect . until that test be ready — a write answer indicate that that might be in 2027 — we can not take our foot off the cull programme or allow our defence to drop . we can not risk a 54 % increase in TB , which be what will happen if we continue to do the wrong thing , as I think the Government be do . we need to protect the healthy badger population and the healthy cattle population . Most of all , though , this be a disease that reach human being too ; and because of antimicrobial resistance , there be not that many drug that tackle tuberculosis . if we allow this disease back , there would be a serious risk to human health , particularly as there be now an increase desire to buy green top milk , which be unpasteurised . consider that TB be a serious disease — consumption , as it use to be call — that would be extremely dangerous . it cost a farm about £ 14 , 000 when a bovine TB breakdown take place . it could also cost the taxpayer up to £ 1 billion over the next 10 year — and I have already mention the risk to human health . I urge the Government to think again about their reticence to allow the cull to continue , until the DIVA test be prove , active , work and successful , which I be sure it will be . that point be stress when the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) , visit my constituency . it break people ' s heart when their cow be take away , and it be wrong that their health be threaten too ; bad of all , the healthy badger population will be diminish as the disease spread . the rural economy be brim with £ 43 billion - worth of economic potential . we need to cut back on the regulation and procedure that burden the sector . farmer can spend over 15 hour a week on administrative work . a recent survey find that 86 % of respondent believe that level of farming administration have increase , and I agree . I fill out my SFI form and countryside stewardship form , and they be extremely complicated . bad , they can not be change very often . an individual can submit a form only once a year . that be fine if they be not go to change anything , but this be a dynamic industry . as a result , we need much more flexibility . a DEFRA tracker find that , when take account of regulatory and payment change , over 50 % of farmer have a negative view of their farming future . the transition from the basic payment scheme to the sustainable farming incentive be riddle with problem . even though the new scheme be suppose to add flexibility to the system , farmer need to wait a year to amend their application . fundamentally , the problem be that we have move from a scheme under which people be give money for the land that they own , which they consider their income , to one where they have to fill out the SFI form and agree to do thing that be not in their interest . every single rule have a disadvantage to it , which be why we have to pay farmer to follow they . the problem be that when they compare their income as it be under the basic payment scheme with their income as it will be under the SFI , they find that it will be low . as a result , farmer feel extremely unhappy and put upon . that be one reason why the underspend by DEFRA be more complicated than the hon . member for Croydon North suggest . he be right to touch on it , but it be much bad than that , because £ 200 million every year not reach the people we be subsidise to provide we with food security be a proper problem for our country . this money be not there to ensure that we do not compete with the French ; it be mean to ensure that we can . we really need to ensure that we be not provide public money for public good alone , but be ensure that the income of the people do the work be maintain . it be about not just the good of the industry and of nature , but ensure that the people do the work get pay for it . that be go seriously wrong . I get a text message from the Animal and Plant Health Agency tell I about bluetongue — that seem to be go on all the time — but I be not get message say when the vaccine for it will appear . we need to be much more supportive of our farmer in every sector they deal with , because they confront so many issue , not least the consumer market . a recent report find that the retail share that farmer receive be down to 0 . 03 % . some farmer have decide not to grow carrot anymore because the margin be so small . accord to research by the University of London , the University of Portsmouth and Sustain , a kilo of carrot price at 45p cost grower 14p to grow , yet they make only a negligible profit . beef farmer make a profit of only 0 . 03 % on a £ 3 . 50 pack of beefburger , even though each pack cost they 90p to make . dairy farmer will make only a 0 . 02 % profit for each £ 2 . 50 pack of mild cheddar , despite it cost £ 1 . 48 to make . those margin be far too small , and compete with foreign counterpart be a secondary challenge , particularly for poultry farmer , who have to compete with import chicken . some chicken may be treat with antibiotic , but the real problem for poultry farmer be the square footage that they be limit to produce on . the one thing that most people do not know about chicken be how long they live for . a chicken will probably be 31 to 36 day old when it go to be process , so the square footage that it live in be fairly dynamic . it change as the chicken get big , which it do extremely quickly . because the Americans allow the use of chlorine washing , american chicken can be squish into a small square footage than british one . that be not much good for the chicken , it be much well for the farmer , and the chlorine washing hide the risk to the consumer of salmonella , E . coli and various other chicken - transmit disease . it result in low animal welfare and be bad for farmer in the UK . we have not square the circle . I be sorry if I have not explain it well enough , but a poultry lesson be always available for anybody who want one . at the end of the day , we insist on much high animal welfare standard , and as a result our farmer be suffer and be be outcompete by those in less scrupulous country . therefore , the most important thing the Government can do be to ensure honesty in food labelling so that customer , whether they live in Croydon or Leominster , can buy chicken that have be properly bring up , properly look after and keep clean . I say to the Government : please , please — food labelling be really important . " Pasture fed " should mean that the animal have be feed pasture for its entire life , not for the last six month . the benefit be that when the customer eat it , they will have a far well ratio of omega 3 fatty acid to omega 6 fatty acid . omega 3 fatty acid be what the body use to make cancer - fight gamma linolenic acid , so customer need to know what they be buy because it can be good for their health . we all talk about a food strategy for the UK , but we should really be talk about a health strategy . we should feed our people not just the good food in the world , produce to the high standard , but the good food for they . in that way , we would not have an obesity problem , we would not spend so much on our health service , and we would give our people what they really want : a happy , healthy and long life . that be my most powerful plea . but thing be not so bad . french farmer ’ dissatisfaction with the increase amount of red tape and great competition from import lead they to descend on Paris to disrupt a food distribution hub that feed 12 million people . belgian farmer blockade the EU building in Brussels in February , and water cannon be use . in 2022 , a dutch farmer be shoot at during the protest in Holland . fortunately , the bullet just miss he . the french Government ' s response to those protest be to low environmental regulation . that be wrong in every direction : the farmer should not be riot , and the Government should not be lower environmental standard . we have not do that in this country and we do not have revolt farmer — in fact , mine be anything but — so we should look at our withdrawal from the common agricultural policy as one of the great success of Brexit . the Government must do more to help farmer produce local produce , such as by promote the " buy british " button from the campaign that encourage supermarket to sell british product . the one tragedy of public procurement be that our armed force do not get enough british beef and lamb . of course , support british food in school and hospital would boost local farmer , but it be very difficult to still get local food from a local abattoir because , thank to the veterinary regulation , there be not very many local abattoir . there be some very big one in Wales , but there be essentially only three major company slaughter at any sort of scale . we should therefore look at the regulation that hold local abattoir back . Most of they be to do with veterinary inspection . the problem with veterinary inspection be that the vet need to be there when the animal be open up , because it smell different if it be not right inside . the idea of have video vet watch what be go on do not work as well as I wish it do , so we need to go back a step to make local abattoir competitive . Hugh Phillips Gower Butcher in my constituency have just close its abattoir , which be a disaster because Gower salt marsh lamb be slaughter there . there be a lack of support for abattoir , and it be hugely costly for butcher to train their staff — it be a very skilled job — and keep their licence , even if they have to close for short period , so more and more abattoir will close . do the hon . Gentleman agree that that be a disaster ? I definitely agree that it be a disaster , and it be the cost per animal kill that would have put the abattoir owner out of business . that happen in my constituency as well . one of the big problem be that the burden be too high . of course , for Gower lamb , Hereford beef or any of the wonderful thing that be kill and process locally , without the abattoir those animal have to travel considerably far , so there be an animal welfare problem , and there be a human health risk to not have proper inspection . however , the qualification require in the UK be of a much high level . very often , when one visit an abattoir , one will see that the veterinary inspector be from Spain . that be because the qualification be different and they be pay less . there be no reason why we should not insist on UK food inspector be qualified differently from the six year it take to become a fully qualified vet , but that be what we use here , and it seem to be a cornerstone of the problem with abattoir closure — over - regulation and over - qualified meat inspector . my hon . friend be make an extremely knowledgeable speech about agriculture , as I would expect . one of my constituent be prepared to invest a considerable amount of money in portable abattoir . as far as I know , the initiative have be stall because of excessive regulation . I be delighted to say not only that I be aware of the portable — or mobile — abattoir , but that a model of it appear in my house for I to have a look at , courtesy of one of the people support the initiative . that be why a more sensible , practical and affordable veterinary inspection regime be what be need . then , we could have the mobile abattoir back . I gently say to my hon . friend that it be not only the veterinary inspection ; it be the planning , the hygiene , the safety — every sort of regulation under the sun have make the initiative stall so far . indeed , but the mobile abattoir do not require planning because it be mobile , and cleanliness and hygiene be essential for confidence in human consumption . however , there be at least some margin for improvement on the veterinary bit . when I look into slaughter through that particular abattoir , the cost be very high because of the veterinary inspection rather than the other thing , although those of course must be deal with . I completely support the project that my hon . friend refer to , and I hope to see far more little abattoir pop up , be they mobile or fix like the one that close in Gower . rise — I would be delighted to give way to the man with the answer on abattoir . if only . I should remind the House that my wife be a practise member of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons , and my young son be three rent cheque away from follow in her footstep . the hon . Gentleman make a good and significant point about the nature of the regulation of abattoir , but there be other force at play here , particularly market force . the reason we have see the consolidation of abattoir be that it produce a low unit cost for throughput . that come back to his early point about the demand of the supermarket and their determination to drive down farm - gate price . do he agree that this be another area where the Groceries Code Adjudicator could perform a significant role if it have sufficient power ? if he be interested in that , he may wish to join I in the Adjournment debate tomorrow evening . I can think of nothing nice than to join the right hon . gentleman in all sort of debate . he be a first - class Deputy Chief Whip in the coalition Government . of course , he absolutely right in what he say about abattoir . I congratulate his son on be three cheque away from qualification — it be no small achievement to become a vet , so he deserve our congratulation . one thing that the Government have do right , and about which I be really delighted , be to establish the statutory food security index and make it an annual event . whether member agree that we should have a health index or a food security index , all of that will come together , and we will see that our 60 % figure be too low . sixty per cent of the food that we eat be produce here — that is 60 % of the food that we could produce , so there be potential for farmer to fill that 40 % void . if we look at the world price of wheat , they be not go to be do it at this rate . it be very , very difficult for some of our farmer to make any money . in 2022 , the value of import of feed , food and drink be £ 58 . 1 billion , over double the value of export of feed , food and drink for the same year . that be an enormous sum , which could be direct towards british farmer if we support they to feed our country . the other thing I would like to see be tax break as well as grant . grant be very limited ; tax break be a much more efficient way of get farmer to cut their cost and compete with farmer abroad . the Government recently announce a £ 427 million grant for farming , which be welcome , but it fundamentally misunderstand the sector . we like to use second - hand machinery in farming , but the grant system do not permit that . a well solution would be to offer tax break to farmer , allow they to keep their hard - earn capital to invest as they wish . that capital would also go towards new technology to generate efficiency , increase yield , and combat the negative impact of extreme weather . one of my constituent want to buy a hop - dry machine from Germany , so she apply for a grant . it be such an expensive machine — more than half a million pound — that it blow through the system . there be no way that that grant could be approve , so in the end , she buy it herself . the hop sector be tiny , but that be why these grant can not just tick the box ; they have to be much more comprehensive . when we talk about farming in this place , we talk about it generally , but each sector be completely different on the ground . a hop - dry machine be completely different from a blackcurrant - pick machine . that be all very well , but a cattle crush nowadays be very different from the one that I could afford to buy , and much more impressive . there be a desire to bring in robot fruit - picker , and that would be great . we already have robot milker , but the robot milker we need be the one that work on a rotary parlour instead of individually . give we the tax break , and we will do the work . do not tell we how to spend our money , because the grant system be not efficient . some 70 % of land in England be manage by grower and farmer , and the work that we could do and do to combat flooding be often overlook . one of the low piece of low - hang fruit be to allow local authority to let their farmer clear flood blockage . Most farmer have a digger , and most farmer have a bulldozer of some sort . they have the kit , and that be where the flooding be , but they be not allow to do anything because they be not insure . that be just mad . let we make sure that local authority can authorise a farmer to get in his tractor , put the snowplough on and clear the road . it be not that hard , but it do seem to be for my local authority — mind you , to be fair , almost everything be very hard for Herefordshire Council . the Environment Agency could also do a great deal more . one little thing that would really help be that the River Wye have phosphate in it from chicken muck , and there be a man in my constituency who have spend a lot of money on build a phosphate - strip plant . the chicken muck come in , it go through the anaerobic digester , the digestate be strip of its phosphate , and then the muck can go back on the field . at £ 300 a tonne , nitrogen fertiliser be very expensive ; at £ 18 a tonne deliver to your farm , chicken muck be a much well alternative . if we want to stop the pollution , we need the Environment Agency to permit activity such as phosphate stripping , so that people can get on with put on proper fertiliser — muck — instead of buy in fossil fuel - base fertiliser from country such as Russia . there be all sort of little thing that the Environment Agency could do instead of put my constituent in prison . diversification would benefit from a less rigid planning system , which of course the Government be think about at the moment . that rigidity be counterintuitive when a development would be helpful , so I welcome the Prime Minister ' s recent comment about allow great diversification in farming . I look forward to see that legislation in April . one or two member have already talk about the need for connectivity . some 46 % of rural deprive area be notspot for 5 g , include most of my constituency . the NFU find that 79 % of respondent do not have a reliable mobile signal on their farm . how can we possibly fill in our form and drive our tractor use GPS when we can not get a mobile phone signal ? we also need well digital mapping . at the moment the map the Rural Payments Agency be use be not accurate for hedgerow , and the work need for hedgerow be even hard because by the time we have fill out our digital map and put in our sustainable farming incentive form , then , oh dear , we be not allow to do anything for our hedge because of the wild bird . then we have to wait , and then the patch come up again when we can do stuff to our hedge , but we can not do the same thing for hedge lay as we can for hedge cutting , so it be hard and complicated . then some bright spark think we would plant tree in the hedge , and that be absolutely fine until someone crash into one and then we have a fatality . hedge be very helpful for many reason , but not many of they be quite right in the SFI at the moment . lastly , there be the issue of transport infrastructure for rural community and livestock worry . there have be a 63 % decrease in the percentage of under - 25s manage farm . that have to change ; we be all get old and that knowledge be need . we see it on " Clarkson ' s Farm " when Kaleb calve a cow . it be not easy ; if you do not know what you be do , you can not do it , and you will then have to call a vet and that will spoil all your economic . we have see it again and again on television ; people need to know what they be do with agriculture . it be exceptionally dangerous . if you get your finger in the power take - off , you will lose your whole arm . if you try and do thing that do not work and turn your tractor over , you will die . and even if you do all right , if you be on your own for week on end with very little contact , you may well choose to take your life . I have lose six farmer in my constituency in the past 12 month . thing be not all right and there be no room for complacency , but some of the good thing the Government be do be so welcome . while I be on a cheerful note , my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) have the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) ( amendment ) Bill come through . we really need it ; there be nothing more miserable than lamb a Schmallenberg lamb and then come back and see the remain of your flock tear to bit by one of these pit bull . it be absolutely appalling , and that be why I support that private Member ' s Bill . the damage do to livestock in the midland alone be £ 313 , 000 so this be a really serious problem , and I be delighted my right hon . friend be do that . I be delighted the Government be maintain their £ 2 . 4 billion annual budget , but they should be increase it . that be the money that keep we stand still ; it be not go to be sufficient to compete with our european competitor or other country . we need more money , we need it deliver through tax break , and we need to make sure that british farmer be support at every level by honesty in food labelling . rise — order . a significant number of Members wish to participate , so I gently suggest that if every Member speak for half an hour , not everybody will get in . today ' s debate have to be reschedule , but we welcome what be still a timely debate on farming . the Scottish National party will always welcome any opportunity to speak on this issue and especially to give scottish farmer a voice in this place . I will talk today about the vital role farmer and farming play in the rich fabric of scottish tradition and outline the impact of scottish farmer on our nation ' s economy , the health of our people , and the protection and management of our environment . I will also detail just some of the mount pressure they face largely due to this Conservative Government ' s long - hold obsession with Brexit . this debate be timely for several reason . the first be that the Prime Minister speak at the NFU annual conference a fortnight ago . " Brave " be a word that absolutely nobody would attribute to the current Prime Minister , but he be the first Tory Prime Minister to address the conference since 1992 and the first UK Prime Minister to do so since 2008 . if anyone in this Chamber , or indeed any of our constituent , be look for a telling insight into Westminster ' s attitude to farming and agriculture , they need look no far than that . I can not help but wonder what it be that keep the Tory leadership away from such a meeting for so long . why , despite have four Prime Ministers in that time , be the current Prime Minister the first in 28 year to make such a commitment — although in the interest of fairness it be only right that we acknowledge that the Prime Minister ' s immediate predecessor be not in office long enough to have receive an invitation ? what might have be the cause of that historic hiatus ? perhaps it be a long - hold tradition of successive Tory Governments take the rural vote and community for grant . perhaps it be a fear of scrutiny from the sector itself , or perhaps it be the crippling knowledge that the Tory obsession with Brexit be play the define role in the decline of our once great agricultural industry . it be probably a combination of all three . we on the SNP Benches believe that the Prime Minister ' s address to the NFU should have begin with an outright apology . the Westminster Government have hammer farmer with their Brexit obsession , leave they to fend for themselves in face the devastating impact of high cost , mountain of red tape , labour shortage and eyewatere delay over border control . alongside my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , I be grateful to be here as a Scottish MP who can also give a voice to scottish farmer . the hon . Gentleman be make good point on Brexit , and I agree with he , but do he agree with I on the importance of skill for farming and have training where the community be ? Scotland ' s Rural College receive a queen ' s anniversary award for innovation a couple of week ago , and I be in London to see that , but the SRUC Elmwood campus in Cupar be face devastating cut , largely as a result of the Scottish Government ' s cut to high and further education . its golf course will be sell off , and there be doubt over the future of its animal care unit . do he agree that the SRUC be an integral part of Cupar and that the Scottish Government should be help the SRUC with funding to keep it there as a go concern ? I agree with the hon . member , and I will make representation as such . I look forward to all contribution in the Chamber from all member across Scotland today . the debate be timely , as we finally see the UK Government respond to decade - long call for fair contract for dairy farmer . since as long ago as 2011 , NFU Scotland have be desperately push on behalf of its member for reform in that area , so we welcome legislation to regulate dairy contract , but we join NFU Scotland and other union in highlight the devastating delay show by the Westminster Government in listen to our dairy farmer and that sector . farming be vital to the scottish economy . the sector in Scotland deliver an annual production output of £ 3 . 3 billion , employ 67 , 000 worker directly on farm and support a further 300 , 000 job within agricultural activity . it have long be the backbone of rural community in Scotland and our surround landscape . we be a nation with a proud agricultural history of crofter , grower and farmer shape global method of food production that be still practise today . scottish salmon , Aberdeen Angus , oat - base product and Scotch whisky all represent modern success story for our resilient food and drink sector . export of those scottish product and other reach a total export value of £ 8 billion in 2022 . while those product have success in common , they be also unite by a far darker share trait : their new - find precarious position as a result of Brexit red tape , staffing shortage , and a poorly negotiate trade deal that have leave they vulnerable to cheap import . our farmer , grower and crofter be resilient and have be for century . they have have to be — forge a livelihood in often remote and weather - beat location , feed the people of Scotland and those far beyond our shore — but they be struggle . scottish farmer deserve far well than the blatant disregard and damage they continue to receive from Westminster . while Labour in Wales and the Tories here in England fail to deliver for farmer , with EU replacement support scheme fall far short of what be promise , the SNP Scottish Government have provide the most generous package of support for farmer and crofter across the UK . we be lucky that farming be a devolved matter , so we can make these intervention back in Scotland . we can try our good to support this vital part of our economy , our history and our culture . with both the main party here in Westminster in lockstep in their support of Brexit and the damage it be do , Scottish Government support for farmer in Scotland can only do so much and only stretch so far . we aspire to much more than mitigate the bad of this place . the general nature of the debate make it hard for we to shortlist all the damage that this place be do to farming community ; many aspect of farming deserve to be debate on the Floor of the House . I will touch on some of they , and hon . member may detect an underlying theme that connect they . I will start with animal welfare , which have be mention . member on all Benches will know that it be of huge importance to I and the SNP . this Tory Government like to talk about standard and the world - lead role that they see we play on the global stage . it be true that scottish farmer have some of the high animal welfare standard in the world , thank largely to the Welfare of Farmed Animals ( Scotland ) Regulations 2010 introduce by the Scottish Government . the action of the Conservative Government here in Westminster since Brexit have make an absolute mockery of their claim to be concerned about animal welfare . for example , the free trade agreement strike with Australia in 2021 do not honour the Westminster Government ' s suppose commitment not to undercut our farmer through unfair competition . we be sell that deal on the laughable pitch that it would save consumer up to £ 34 million a year — a measly 52p per person . at what cost ? at a cost to our farmer . their high animal welfare standard go unrewarded , and they be penalise by be undercut by import of a far low standard . of course , it be also at a cost to the planet , as we fly good across the world rather than support local food economy . surely the time have come for the UK Government to listen to call from farmer across Scotland , as well as organisation such as the Landworkers ' Alliance . through a recent consultation , its scottish policy team , lead by Dr Tara White , have provide invaluable insight into the Scottish Government as they shape our enforce post - brexit agricultural direction . organisation such as Compassion in World Farming call for a smart , more ethical approach to reward farmer — through make core minimum animal welfare standard a condition of any tariff or quota - free trade deal ; through efficient labelling , so that consumer be well informed about the origin and welfare standard of the product that they be go to consume ; and through a localise approach to supply that bolster local food economy . nobody need reminding of the impact of the pandemic in reveal weakness in our over - reliance on long supply chain and those that rely on the international trade , or of the importance of local food supply system and meet our domestic need . the need for short supply chain be only compound by the climate crisis , and import food from other country — especially those as far away as Australia — will serve only to increase greenhouse gas emission . that contradict any UK Government claim that they be tackle the climate challenge head on . another issue of concern to all of we in the SNP be the cost of our food and the unavoidable reality that while cost for consumer rise , the share of that cost that find its way to our farmer remain completely stagnant . the Centre for Economic Performance have state that leave the European Union add an average of £ 210 per household to food bill over the two year to the end of 2021 . that be the legacy of this place — and that be before the Tory party elect its previous leader , whose reckless relationship with economic reality heap further cost on each and every one of our constituent . for any member who need to be remind of the impact of the Tory - engineer crisis , datum from the Office for National Statistics show that the overall price of food rise by about 25 % between January 2022 and January 2024 . in the 10 year prior to that , food price rise by only 9 % in total . we know that farmer have not benefit from those price increase ; in fact , the opposite be true . farmer be pay high cost for essential such as feed and fertiliser . research for Sustain by Professor Lisa Jack find that of the entire price we might pay for one grocery item , about 98 % or 99 % of that go to production and overhead for intermediary company such as processor and distributor , and then the retailer . that mean our farmer , our crofter and our grower be leave with crumb : sometimes as little as 1p of profit for each item they produce . let I take this opportunity to ask the Minister , once again , to consider price cap to stop the supermarket profiteer and to help ensure that basic essential be not beyond the reach of many people . well still , the UK Government could answer call from organisation such as Sustain and force supermarket to publish more information about their own supply chain . we in the SNP be clear that farmer must be pay what they be owe , because they provide a secure , fair and sustainable future for family farm across all these nation . we need urgently to review exist framework that be suppose to enshrine that fairness but be not act as well as they should , include look at the efficacy of the grocery supply code of practice . another issue raise by the SNP in this place consistently be the crippling effect of Brexit on the ability of our farmer to staff their farm . currently , the UK rely on some 58 , 000 seasonal worker to harvest the crop grow by our domestic system , not count those work in the wide food production and farming system . despite constant warning from farmer and union in Scotland during the referendum and after , Brexit have have a devastating impact on the ability of farmer to find staff at peak time of the harvest cycle . despite the introduction of short - term visa for overseas worker to fill those role , significant immigration issue remain , especially for seasonal worker , those force to work in food manufacturing and , as we have hear , those work in abattoir . the introduction of short - term visa not only fail to address worker shortage in agricultural and food production in Scotland but pose another serious challenge . the complexity of the system and associate cost of the move to the UK mean that many worker be often at the sharp end of exploitation — a great deal of which occur in the application process itself , where third party take advantage of applicant struggle to navigate the UK system . what have we be leave with ? we have an immigration system that allow exploitation at its outset and have not effectively fill the vacancy , and a hostile environment create by the attitude of this Tory Government , which deter worker with the appropriate skillset from even consider come to the UK to carry out that work . I say early that consistent theme emanate from Westminster , the painful reality of which have become all too familiar to the people of Scotland : Tory chaos , Tory mismanagement and the endure damage of Brexit , which threaten to decimate our hard - work and admirably resilient farmer in Scotland . in stark contrast , we in the SNP stand up for scottish farmer wherever we can on matter that be fully devolve . we have give clarity and assurance that we will support our farming industry . we have introduce the Agriculture and Rural Communities ( Scotland ) Bill , which be a milestone in our work to transform how we support farming and food production in Scotland , to become a global leader in sustainable and regenerative agriculture . a final example of the difference between the clear leadership show in Scotland and the approach favour down here be that , in his address to the National Farmers Union scottish conference , the First Minister announce that the Scottish Government have now commit up to 70 % of the budget make available through tier 1 and 2 of the framework . today ' s debate be welcome and incredibly important . farmer in Scotland be close to breaking point . despite the constant commitment of support from the Scottish Government , there be only so much we can do to clean up the mess that have be leave by the Tory Government . this Government continue to bury their head in the sand , but we in the SNP will continue to work hard to secure the fair and sustainable future that scottish family farm deserve . there be only one way to properly address the challenge that farmer face and support and protect Scotland ' s agricultural history : an independent Scotland take its place within the European Union . only one party be make the case for that : the SNP . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a trustee of a family trust that own share in Trevaskis farm — our family farming business — and I be a director of Penbroath , a consultancy in the sector . I want to start by address the current year , because the current year be always at the top of farmer ' mind . as the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) point out , it have undoubtedly be a very difficult year for farmer , principally due to the weather . this have be one of the wet winter on record . it affect different part of the country , but it have be more widespread than the bad flooding in 2020 or the more localised but much more severe flooding in 2014 . a lot of winter arable crop have struggle to establish . in area such as my constituency , which be home to most of the UK ' s cauliflower production , the producer of cauliflower in Cornwall have have the most difficult year in live memory . so , it have be a difficult time over the past 12 month , particularly this winter . it be also true that in recent year a number of global event have lead to volatility . in common with many other business sector , farmer have sometimes find it difficult to plan and budget properly because of volatility in their input cost , although over the past 12 month some sector have see commodity price ease back from the very high level record in recent year . that be particularly pronounce in some area of cereal production , such as winter wheat . while acknowledge that it have be a difficult year for farmer and that that be at the top of their mind , it be important to take a step back and look at the wide context and a long timeframe . DEFRA constantly monitor farm business income . every year , it publish the " Farm Business Survey " . as the Minister will know , a whole statistic department in DEFRA spend its time understand global agricultural commodity market — what be drive price up or down — and their impact on UK farm enterprise . in recent year , we have to acknowledge that farm income have actually rise sharply overall since 2016 . throughout history , farmgate price have always be heavily influence by exchange rate . the sharp devaluation of sterling against the euro after the 2016 referendum result — literally within second of it become apparent what be likely to happen that evening — mean that anybody who be in a productive sector , whether primary industry or manufacturing , benefit from a slightly soft exchange rate . People who make and produce thing tend to do well when there be a weak exchange rate against the euro and the dollar , and people who import thing , or who be in the financial service sector , tend to prefer a strong exchange rate . because of that exchange rate change , between 2016 and 2022 profit on the average dairy farm more than double to over £ 200 , 000 last year . that be more than four time high than the average dairy farm be get in 2015 when dairy price really be on the floor and struggle . it be also true that turbulence follow the terrible invasion of Ukraine have lead to sharp increase in global cereal price . for the average cereal farm , gross profit margin per hectare actually treble in the few year after 2022 , although , as I have already acknowledge and for any angry cereal farmer listen , cereal price have fall sharply in the current year . I recognise that it have not be a universally positive picture . overall , farm income be healthy from 2016 to 2022 , but the pig sector in particular suffer difficulty in 2021 , cause by oversupply in the EU market and problem in the chinese export market . our apple industry suffer a long - stand problem of a seeming inability to break through in export market , leave an industry which require investment over many year , if not decade , at the mercy of all - too - powerful retail customer . the potato industry have suffer several year in the doldrum , partly owe to change consumer taste and a reduction in demand for potato . in the graze livestock sector — not just in the more vulnerable upland landscape , but in lowland area , too — profit have typically move sideways ; they be not really increase , and in some year be dip slightly . the overall picture for agriculture since 2016 be positive , and it be important to recognise that . farmer will not always volunteer the fact that they have have a good year , but it be important for those of we in the House who be interested in coherent policymake at least to understand the datum and the statistic , which be why I be so pleased when the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries publish the datum and the trend late last year . I want to say a little about the agricultural policy that the Government be pursue . Most of its key tenet be develop between 2017 and 2019 , when I be the Minister of State responsible for agriculture , and implement between 2020 and 2023 , when I be the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . we apply a number of principle to that policy , as we have a once - in - a - generation opportunity to rethink farming policy from first principle . the first principle be that there be no long - term place for land subsidy . the single farm payment , area payment , direct payment — whatever we wish to call they — be essentially a subsidy pay to people for own land . there be no coherence in such a policy , simply because there have never be any shortage of people in this country want to buy land , so it make no sense to add a subsidy to it . there be also a great deal of evidence that when that subsidy payment be introduce in 2005 , about 50 % of it go in inflated rent , so all that happen be that the ultimate owner of the land benefit most . that be why we end up with the problem that 50 % of the entire agriculture budget go to 10 % of the wealthy landowner in the country , while 44 , 000 farmer — more than half the cohort claim direct payment — have just 10 % of the total between they . that make no sense , so we introduce a second principle . we decide that as well as pay farmer for what they do , rather than just pay they for happen to own land , we should allow they a profit margin from what we ask they to do . we make a deliberate decision to depart from the backward " income forgone " methodology that be pursue by the European Union and be sometimes advocate by the World Trade Organisation . as we try to modernise farm policy , we must reject some of the anachronistic approach support by the WTO , because they have no place in modern policy . if we be go to ask farmer to give up a land subsidy in exchange for be pay for what they do , we should not begrudge they a margin for what they do . there have to be a profit margin ; that be the quid pro quo for the removal of anachronistic land subsidy . we recognise that there be poor profitability in some farming sector , and that in some area there be a dependence on the subsidy receive , but the third principle that we bring to the design of the policy be that we should try to address the cause of that poor profitability , rather than simply treat the symptom . that be why , in the Agriculture Act 2020 , we legislate for new power to introduce fairness in the supply chain , and it be why in the year since then there have be a significant expansion in grant to help farmer invest in their business , reduce cost and improve their profitability . it be also why we ensure that the scheme we design , such as the sustainable farming incentive , not only help the environment , but increase and improved farm ’ financial resilience . there be considerable evidence that in some landscape , a more extensive approach , in which farming have few input but a high profit margin , can lead to overall improvement in the profitability and long - term financial resilience of enterprise . the fourth principle , which I be very keen to bring to the policy , be that there should be simplicity in the new scheme . other have comment that we do not take that far enough , and I be open to representation on that , but achieve that be not easy , because the environment be complex . whenever we try to design a scheme that deliver for the environment , it will always be limit by the extent of human understanding , and the ability to make payment that we can track ; we have to be able to validate the fact that they have be deliver . that be not straightforward , as I discover when I get into this issue . I campaign to leave the European Union . I be very hostile to the cross - compliance regime and the way that the EU approach these matter , and I be very keen to ensure simplicity . my message to official be that when we design policy , if we encounter a dilemma or a difficulty , we should always tack towards simplicity , and accept that although the policy might not be perfect , we need something that work . to be fair to official , they have generally do that ; and to be fair to Ministers , they have maintain that basic principle . the final principle be that there should be evolution , not revolution . that be why , way back in 2018 , when I first try to take an Agriculture Bill through Parliament — it do not complete its passage , and we have to have a second attempt in the Parliament that follow the 2019 general election — we make it explicit , right from the beginning , that there would be a seven - year transition between 2021 and 2028 , and that we would gradually reduce the legacy basic payment scheme land subsidy and expand the roll - out of the new policy . it be sometimes say that there have not be a plan , or that thing have not happen as fast as they should have , but all such representation be complete and utter nonsense . we publish a document in 2019 that set out the seven - year transition plan , and I pay tribute to all my successor , because every single one of they have continue to roll out the policy programme exactly as we set out in 2019 . indeed , late last year , the Government confirm that this year , they would de - link the remain legacy payment from the need to have tenure over land , which be exactly what we plan as long ago as 2019 . every component of the new agriculture policy , from the sustainable farming incentive to the landscape recovery project , have be roll out exactly as we intend . I pay tribute to the many official in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs who have maintain the trajectory that we outline in 2019 , particularly Janet Hughes , who have lead the team in question for a number of year . have that continuity on the policy programme have be helpful . I also pay tribute to Tim Mordan , a long - stand official in DEFRA who have help Ministers from different party over many year , and who I understand will soon be retire from the Department . I want to say a little about the challenge that remain ; I will wind up soon . when it come to agriculture , I be afraid to say that most of the challenge that DEFRA face be from other Government Departments . the first of those be the Home Office . when I be Secretary of State , we put in place the Shropshire review , which conclude that we need not only a multi - annual visa scheme for seasonal worker in the agriculture sector , but a more progressive approach to have a visa scheme for sector such as food manufacturing . I regret to say that there have not yet be a response to the Shropshire review . I place no blame at the foot of DEFRA Ministers , because I be a Minister in DEFRA and I know how these thing work . minister will not be able to say so , but it be pretty obvious that , as usual , the Home Office be the intransigent blockage in this problem . we really need a machinery - of - government change in which the Home Office be strip of its power relate to visa policy for seasonal agricultural worker . the policy in its entirety should simply be move to DEFRA , so that DEFRA Ministers no long have to waste their time try to explain thing to Home Office Ministers ; that be often where the problem lie . a number of hon . member have mention trade . I would simply say to Ministers that DEFRA understand trade and some of the technical issue around it far well than official in the Department for Business and Trade . DEFRA Ministers be arm with real intellectual power , and real experience of deal with trade negotiation . I hope that current and aspire Ministers in this place will always draw on the power in DEFRA to face down some of the more naive approach that we have see in the past from the Department for Business and Trade . we must also keep payment rate under review . I increase the payment rate for the sustainable farming incentive and countryside stewardship scheme by about 30 % in my final year in the role . minister recently increase the rate by a further 10 % , and it may be that we need to consider go far as we depart from the anachronistic " income forgone " methodology . a number of hon . member mention land use , and the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Croydon North , mention the land use framework . I be more optimistic about our ability to both increase agricultural output and make space in our farm landscape for nature , because we have do the research and we know that there be no direct correlation between food production and the land area use . some 35 % of our agricultural output come from just 4 % of the land , because sector such as pig , poultry and horticulture have high - value output but do not use a huge amount of land . at the other end of the scale , around 20 % of farm land in England produce just 3 % or 4 % of our total output . it be pretty obvious that we can make space for nature , do some tree plant and restore vulnerable habitat such as peatland , but also invest in new horticulture , glasshouse and crop to expand our domestic food production and enhance our food security . I regret that the Government decide last year to drop the horticulture strategy . they have reinstate element of it , which be to be welcome , but the reason why we commit to a new focus on horticulture — in particular , a new generation of glasshouse for our food production — be this . in my nine year in DEFRA , I spend a lot of time in Cobra meeting deal with the late crisis , whether it be a ferry strike in France , covid or prepare for a no - deal Brexit . the issue always come down to how we would get lettuce and tomato from Spain into this country through the short strait . if we really want to enhance our food security , we should have a renew focus on horticulture and try to re - shore some of the glasshouse production that be wrongly export to the Netherlands when we join the European Union all those decade ago . finally , I would like more do to support new entrant and tenant farmer . the Rock review be an excellent piece of work with many different recommendation , but if there be one recommendation that I hope the Government will consider take forward , it be the idea of an assignable agreement on countryside stewardship , so that if somebody enter land tenure for two or three year , they can assign their agreement to an incoming tenant , or indeed the landowner . that be the only solution I can see to that problem . it be a pleasure to participate in this important and timely debate , and a particular pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , who make a very consider speech , as ever . he be very learn in this policy field , and I would like to elaborate on his point about food security , and especially the emphasis on horticulture and re - shore some production in the UK . food security do not always get the attention it demand in this place — or , indeed , in wide political debate . it be a matter of life and death , and it warrant more parliamentary scrutiny and debate in future . I begin by consider the current state of affair . in that regard , the UK Government ' s food security report be incredibly useful . it set out the situation regard food production and consumption , as well as export and import , and I be take aback by some of its finding . for example , the UK ' s production - to - supply ratio in 2020 be 60 % for all food , and 76 % for indigenous - type food . perhaps more relevant and more widely understand be the figure for consumption of UK - produce food , which stand close to 54 % , as some food product be export . the point be that statistic be hard to interpret and can sometimes tell a whole array of different story . one thing I would say about the 54 % of UK - produce food be consume here be that that compare with a 1984 figure of 78 % . change dietary preference , a change climate and different consumer habit have a heavy bearing on this story , but the trend be quite important . from a peak in the mid - 1980 , the production to supply ratio decline into the early 2000 and have remain quite stable ever since . food security be not a simple matter ; it be multifacete and have various contingent factor . the Government ' s " United Kingdom Food Security Report 2021 " include a useful definition , which I think convey the complexity . it note that food security " encompass the state of global agriculture and market on which the UK be reliant ; the source of raw material and foodstuff in the UK and abroad ; the manufacturing , wholesale , and retail industry that ultimately bring food to shelf and plate , and their complex supply chain of input and logistic ; and the system of inspection that allow consumer to be confident their food be safe , authentic , and of a high standard . " if we consider that definition for a moment , as detail as it be , a few risk to food security immediately spre to mind . we have already hear some of they in this debate , include that the surge in input price and the cost of commodity have have a big influence on the viability of farm business . we have also hear about the change climate in the UK and the way in which flooding have have a significant impact on agricultural production here . it be also important to bear in mind that a change climate will also have an impact on those market abroad from which the UK import so much of its food . especially relevant here be the fact that , as the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth outline , different sector will be more exposed to those foreign import market than other . let we take the fruit and vegetable sector as a case in point , as we depend quite a bit on foreign market for our fruit and veg . the UK produce over 50 % of the vegetable consume domestically but only 16 % of our fruit , and 93 % of domestic consumption of fresh vegetable be fulfil by domestic and european production , while fruit supply be more widely spread across the EU , Africa , the Americas and the UK . some of those foreign market be in area of the world that we know will suffer from climate change , and their ability to produce much of the food that we import will be impact by that . we must also consider the unknown impact that geopolitical instability will have on some supply chain . the war in Ukraine have already be mention , but we need also to remember that some of these shock be unexpected and can not be anticipate , such as the recent disruption of the Red sea trade route . for that reason , I very much welcome the Government ' s commitment to monitor food security through the new statutory index . I believe that this would warrant an annual debate to coincide with update of the index so that we could properly scrutinise this important matter . if we consider all these fact and potential threat and risk , it lead we to the conclusion that we need not only to maintain domestic food production but to increase it so that we can gain great self - sufficiency in many of the food product that UK consumer eat . our focus so far have be on some of the external factor , but we need to bear in mind that many domestic factor have an impact on domestic food capacity . I be afraid to say that a combination of factor be conspire to force many farmer in Wales out of the industry . domestic agricultural support policy , for example , have a big part to play , in addition to the public procurement of food contract , which have already be mention . the financial position of Welsh farm underline the vulnerability of the sector in Wales and the importance of direct Government support payment . the Institute of Biological , Environmental and Rural Sciences at Aberystwyth University in my constituency produce an annual farm business survey of farm income . the most recent survey , detail the 2022 - 23 out - turn , paint a worrying picture of the state of many farm and farm model in Wales . it note how hill cattle and sheep farm make a profit of some £ 24 , 000 after rent and finance , but exclude the cost of unpaid labour , in that financial year . that compare with the average basic payment scheme payment for those farm of £ 26 , 000 . hill sheep farm have a similar story . they make a profit after rent and finance of some £ 24 , 000 , versus a direct support payment of £ 31 , 577 . the point I be try to make be that direct support from the Government — through the basic payment scheme in this instance — have serve an incredibly important role in keep many of those farm afloat . my concern be that if there be any reduction to that profit , many will find themselves unviable . the hon . Gentleman will know well that the Labour Government in Wales be currently plan a subsidy scheme — a sustainable farming scheme — that by their own independently commission estimate will lead to roughly a 10 % drop in livestock and a £ 122 million drop in revenue . farmer in Aberconwy tell I that that income be simply the difference between they have a future and not , so what message do he have for his Plaid Cymru colleague in the Senedd who be prop up the Welsh Labour Government through a co - operation agreement ? do he agree that tomorrow afternoon ' s budget vote might be a good opportunity for they to reconsider that co - operation ? the hon . Gentleman be right to state the fear of his farmer , which be very much align with those express to I by farmer in Ceredigion , that the potential change in this policy be , frankly , a matter of life and death for their business . he tempt I to comment on the plan of my colleague in the Senedd . I will resist that temptation , but I will say that it be important , give the gravity of the situation face the Welsh agricultural industry , that the sustainable farming scheme should be change . I would suggest that it should be pause to begin with , so that we have time to devise a proper policy that be fit for the 21st century . if my colleague decide that they need to use every possible lever , I will say all power to their elbow , and if that mean the demise of the co - operation agreement , I will certainly not be mourn its passing . the point be that direct support for many of our farm business be crucial . the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) say early that much of the reality of that support be to ensure that the price of food on our supermarket shelf be control in a manner . the hon . Gentleman be talk about direct support to farmer , and on that subject I want to ask he about direct support for local planning authority , give how vital it be that farmer get quick answer from those authority . my experience in Mid Devon and East Devon be that they be earnest in their desire to prevent agricultural pollution from affect our stream and river , but I have one farmer who have wait 20 month for a decision on a planning application in relation to the construction of a slurry store . do the hon . Gentleman agree that we need the Westminster Government also to help local planning authority so that our farmer can get rapid answer ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right . that be something we face in Wales as well , where some farm improvement and development , sometimes involve change to comply with regulation , find obstacle and delay in planning . it be only right that planning authority should be sufficiently resource to ensure that none of those obstacle be put in the way of progress . I want briefly to turn to some of the wide issue that impact on domestic production , include the weakness of the current grocery supply code of practice and enforcement regime , and trade policy . I do not need to remind the House about this because I can see so many learn member here this evening , but farming be a long - term industry , and these decision have to be make on a very long - term basis . when it come to the way in which the grocery supply chain operate , I be afraid that many retailer have find themselves in a position where they can exert undue influence and have an impact on farmer and grower to shift short - term risk on to their shoulder — much to the detriment of the wide industry . it be state in last month ' s Westminster Hall debate that 95 % of the food consume in the UK be sell by just 12 retailer , which afford they a dominant position in the supply chain . this mean that farmer and grower receive a paltry margin compare with the margin enjoy by many retailer . again , that point be make far more eloquently by the hon . member for North Herefordshire . in addition to short - term inflation spike and rise import cost , farmer be currently expose to unfair trading practice arise from this imbalance . last month , many member present debate a petition start by the Riverford farming campaign , call on the government : to strengthen the Groceries Code Adjudicator by empower it to take effective and punitive action against those commit unfair trading practice ; to lower the turnover threshold so that the code apply to a great number of retailer ; and to enshrine the simple principle that retailer should give supplier certainty that they will buy what they have agree to buy , that they will pay what they have agree to pay and that they will pay on time . that basic fairness would more evenly spread out across the supply chain some of the risk and profit inherent in the food supply system . the impact of trade policy have already be mention , so I will not go into detail . concern have be raise about the impact of the Australia free trade deal on the sector in Wales and the UK . all I will add be that , in their approach to future trade policy , the UK Government should urgently establish a set of core production standard for all food consume in the UK to ensure that our farmer and grower be not disadvantage by any future trade agreement . these standard could safeguard high - quality , climate - friendly market that be open to import from country whose standard may differ from our own . in addition to the food security index , the Government could look to establish an annual free trade agreement assessment to quantify the cumulative impact of free trade agreement on trade balance , source , standard and domestic food production . the farming union in Wales would very much support such a measure . food security be a challenge with which we will soon need to grapple . by not only maintain but increase domestic production , so that we gain great self - sufficiency , we will in turn gain great resilience to climate change and to shock in a very uncertain world . it be a huge pleasure to contribute to this debate on farming . the previous speech show the importance of farming to our national security . the primary purpose of farming be to produce the fine food that we enjoy , and we need farmer to keep do that . they need to have good and fair reward , and we also need their help to protect and conserve the countryside and the natural environment . as the Member of Parliament for Suffolk Coastal , I be bless to represent a special part of our country that be well know for its pig , potato , parsnip and much more , include poultry and its splendid natural environment . I refer in my maiden speech to the importance of listening and learning from those who expertly rear and grow so much of the produce that we enjoy in this country . we want to help they get good value for their produce by make sure that the good british food be value across the world . one of the challenge in draft a national policy , as so eloquently set out by my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) — move from a blanket 85 % , base on a particular characteristic , with a bit of environmental for the other 15 % — be recognise the difference between the administration of the United Kingdom . there be some pretty dogged element in Wales , with farmer be instruct that , to get any support at all , they have to give up quite a lot of land , rather than potentially make improvement . I be conscious that , on the frontline , the challenge vary sector by sector and county by county . that variance be often because of the soil , which can be so different even on opposite side of the A12 in my constituency . we recognise that farmer face different challenge , day in and day out , to have a fruitful industry , and one challenge be water . farmer have way too much water right now , but there be often concern in my part of the country about drought and restriction on abstraction . we be now see other challenge to do with yield . we must continue to be agile and flexible in listen to feedback . the Rural Payments Agency have a history of say , " computer say no . " instead , we should undertake analysis and carefully consider the policy that we be pursue , as my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth set out , while ensure that we stick to our target for the distribution of funding across the country . we want to make sure that 70 % of agricultural land and 70 % of holding participate in the environmental land management scheme by 2028 . I would be grateful for an update on that from the Minister . another aspect that link to food security be that some farmer be consider whether to opt out of food production entirely , which be not the intention of ELMS . we should consider restrict how much land can be take out of production because , as my right hon . Friend say , there be an opportunity to improve the productivity of much of our farming sector to get the food security that we all believe be vital . I hope that official be continue , or have finish , the analysis that I commission , so that we not only look at national income and national average , but look constituency by constituency , and certainly county by county , to get a sense of whether people be take up these opportunity . for example , about 305 farmer in Suffolk Coastal be eligible for BPS — BPS do not apply to quite a lot of farmer in my constituency , particularly pig farmer — but only 55 have so far apply for SFI in the current year , despite the scheme be open to pig farmer . it be worth undertake that analysis , which be why I ask the RPA to share the recipient of BPS with I . I do not want to know how much they earn , but I want to understand why people be not take up the opportunity . we need to listen and get feedback . we have a fine , experience Farming Minister in my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) . after lawyer and trade union official , I expect that farming be the no . 1 occupation of Members of Parliament , certainly on the conservative Benches if not more broadly . it be important to be alert to the issue on which , at time , only the Government can help and intervene , but we also need to understand the barrier to participation . biosecurity continue to be the issue that should keep most politician awake at night . we have already hear about bovine TB , and I absolutely believe that we should continue to cull until thing be more stable . science continue to advance our understanding of how vaccine can be apply much more readily . we have make sure to tighten up issue at the border , but I would be grateful if the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) update we on where we be with the important Weybridge upgrade to make sure that we can assess those issue . on protect the countryside , I be delighted that Labour have abandon its right to roam . I think Labour have listen to farmer , and I hope it will listen a bit more on bovine TB and the use of chemical and pesticide — they be not apply willy - nilly , as they cost farmer a lot of money . it be important that we continue to ensure that we deploy what nature give we in an appropriate way , while still be understandably concerned about the impact on the natural environment . the two can go hand in hand and it be vital they do , because if the farmer and landowner do not help we in support the natural environment , it do not matter what scheme we have . we might have the good scheme in the world , but if it be not take up , we will fail . have a practical and pragmatic approach continue to be really important in that regard . we have already hear about skill and visa . I be delighted when the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education listen to the concern raise by my local agricultural college . t - level be replace btec , but there be a gap because pig husbandry be not include in the curriculum — again , this be part of the challenge of have national approach . the organisation be say that there be not enough demand for that , but there be , certainly in my constituency and in other part of the country . I be delighted that the Government listen and be make sure that that will be in the curriculum . as for the progress we have make , it have be a journey . my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) write the blueprint , " Health and Harmony " , ably assist by my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth . through the creation of the Agriculture Act 2020 , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath set in place the architecture . it be also fair to say that when thing be not quite work , it be okay to have a few tweak along the way . that be not a failure in where we be ; the direction of travel be still there . however , as I say , we have to have something that work . water be one of our big challenge in Suffolk . the local microclimate be pretty much like Israel ' s ; part of East Anglia be exceptionally dry . the new president of the NFU , Tom Bradshaw , will know that very well from his farming in Essex . that be why I be delighted several year ago to help support the creation of the Felixstowe Hydrocycle , which be so good it be include in the " plan for Water " four time , at my insistence . we need to bear it in mind that although plenty of farmer have too much water right now , we often do not have enough . think about the risk to future production be important when the Environment Agency be try to balance a variety of environmental regulation alongside what can be do to make sure that farmer have enough water to grow crop . I have be try to get permit development right for small - scale reservoir . I encourage the Minister to pursue that within government . internal drainage board be vital and sensible in try to manage that delicate balance . I be very conscious that we have the high welfare standard in the world and that people have concern that not everyone be play by the same rule . that happen while we be in the EU and we still see those challenge in our trade agreement with the EU . it be important that we continue to market that welfare not only within this country , but elsewhere in the world . that be why it be right to reject a lot of the call from foreign market about why they should come into this country , and I be pleased that the Prime Minister stand up for british farming at the time . I be sorry to interrupt my right hon . friend , but do she agree that it be vital that when we negotiate future trade deal , we include in they the fact that Britain have some of the high welfare standard in the world , and that we should not sacrifice those for the sake of do a trade deal ? my hon . friend be right to raise that point . welfare be one of our selling point when it come to trade deal and what we sell abroad — people recognise that brand . there be other way in which the industry have try to promote its element . there be still a lot of clamour in this country to do even more ratcheting on welfare , with the idea that somehow the rest of the world will automatically follow we . frankly , we still have to get the European Commission to implement all the european rule . there be still derogation in existence and a lack of enforcement . I would rather we focus on people in this country who be not follow the rule than on ratchet far . however , I hear what my hon . friend say about what happen in other part of the world . we need to make sure that farming be fit for the future . there be not many sector where , across the UK , the Government give out more than £ 3 billion a year to support an industry . we have make the change to public money for public good , but we can go far in make sure that our funding arrangement be fair for tenant farmer and that the contract we have be fair . I do not believe that the Government should get involve directly in set price . as we have see recently with sugar beet , there be some delicacy where Ministers have to crack head together to get a reasonable outcome . we need to crack on with many of the other Brexit bonus . for example , we pass the Genetic Technology ( Precision Breeding ) Act 2023 and we now need the Food Standards Agency to get the regulation in place so that we can take full advantage of it . we should also be get the FSA and DEFRA to take advantage of the opportunity to deregulate . deregulate do not mean make thing bad ; it be about make thing more straightforward , for example in relation to small abattoir and Trichinella testing . there have not be a case of Trichinella in at least 20 year , if not long , and it be a european problem , not one here in the UK . I look forward to more deregulation come along . as for waste , there be no doubt that there be challenge with pollution come from farming , which be why six year ago regulation be put in place to do with water . we should recognise that we have be able to increase the amount of money that have go into thing such as slurry cover and other aspect of manage that . there be plenty more we can do in that regard . on trade , quality be undoubtedly one of our big selling point . I be pleased that we be able to double the number of agricultural attach é s , and we really need to take account of that . we should be challenge the European Commission on the fact that France seem to be put up trade barrier . People want to export our good , yet they can not do so because there be no facility in the port across from Dover , in Calais , to allow that to happen . that be a barrier to trade that we should be challenge through the European Commission . there be other aspect that have already be cover well today . we do need to make sure there be availability of labour and there be more we want to do on invest in the future . there be other aspect that I hope the Treasury will look into — for example , that the tax relief be pass on . conscious of the up and down that can be experience in farming , we bring in the five year averaging of tax relief . that be an important change , but there be a problem at the moment whereby as soon as people stop give up land — the extra patch at the edge of their land — they can no long necessarily get the tax relief that be then pass from generation to generation . by contrast , if people bring in a solar farm and sign a lease for only 20 to 25 year , they keep all of the tax benefit that they enjoy . we need to see the same for nature too . I be conscious that many people want to speak in the debate , Madam Deputy Speaker , but let I say that I want to make sure that DEFRA be practical and pragmatic in its delivery . the RPA need to be agile and flexible , and it need to listen to feedback . a good example of that be one of perhaps only two time when official and the agency flat refuse to deliver ministerial instruction . there be feedback from visit to farmer around the country and from be out in the frontline about what have be happen with certain aspect of mapping . we can go far on simplify that and we need to make sure that that absolutely happen . it be important that farmer have trust and confidence in our delivery agency , and that that agency have trust and confidence in the policy , so that when minister say they want to change something simple , straightforward and necessary for farmer , that will be deliver without hesitation . I could say much more . I have be Secretary of State for DEFRA , which be a responsible , worthwhile and challenging job . we should all ensure we have farmer at the forefront of our mind when we think of the food we eat , the animal we see and the countryside we enjoy . frankly , this country would be bad off without farmer , which be why we need to ensure they be at the forefront . my constituency be far more rural than its name suggest , with many farm around the town of Otley and Yeadon and the village of Bramhope , Pool and Arthington . I have visit many of those farm and see a range of practice , as well as many farm in North Yorkshire , over the border , particularly after the pandemic . properly support our nation ' s farmer be essential to meet our nature and climate target . the Government must do more to support our farmer to deliver more sustainable food production and implement environmental land management strategy . defra ' s agricultural transition plan be a step in the right direction towards a more resilient and prosperous agriculture sector that be capable of deliver sustainable food production while meet nature and climate target . the offer for 2024 include some welcome component , include an expand set of action , an average uplift in payment of 10 % , increase payment frequency and a commitment to double the amount of agreement offer for more complex and target environmental land management . the review and refresh of payment rate should serve to well reflect the value of the public good provide by certain type of habitat and management action . however , there be no publicly available datum to demonstrate how these payment rate have be calculate , which be crucial in build transparency , evaluate progress and securing value for money . DEFRA need to publish scheme payment methodology , as well as a clear payment strategy that forecast expenditure on different scheme action and the outcome that be expect as a result . one of the main weakness of the farming transition to date have be DEFRA ' s reliance on low - ambition , free - choice action within the broad and shallow element of environmental land management . the design choice be intend to maintain maximum flexibility , but it risk undermine the environmental effectiveness of the scheme with evidence suggest that previous similar approach have not secure their intended objective . over time , the sustainable farming incentive need to evolve to enable the delivery of a whole farm - approach , ensure that a minimum level of environmental action be deliver as part of a join - up and cohesive scheme . we need both a degree of flexibility to account for individual circumstance and to maintain a minimum level of ambitious environmental delivery . for farmer to truly be support to increase sustainable practice , we urgently need to address the green skill shortage for farming . successfully integrate environmental action into the heart of farm - base business decision making will be a new concept for many . with over 300 action to choose from , many farmer need the right support to deliver the right action for their farm and the environment . access to expert , high - quality advice will be critical to deliver high quality environmental outcome , business benefit and farmer buy - in . farmer need access to ecological expertise and support for farmer - to - farmer peer learning and knowledge exchange . there be simply a lack of people and skill to help land manager do the right thing in the right place at a pace that meet our climate and biodiversity target . as the rural economy change , there be the opportunity to develop more skill in manage natural capital , such as stone wall , hedgerow , natural flood management and habitat area . it be a great opportunity to support the current and next generation to have the skill to manage a landscape for food , nature and climate . with the focus on manage hedgerow well for carbon capture and biodiversity , new skill will be need in the management of big , bushy hedge . with increase focus on tree planting , there will be a great need for job in managing woodland and the by - product that will be produce over the next 20 to 30 year before timber be ready to be fell . we need a national nature service for young people to introduce they to these green skill and the job opportunity that follow , as well as work closely with agricultural college and university so they can provide the course and qualification for the sustainable farming transition . I have speak many time about the essential role of hedgerow and coppice to our agricultural heritage and the protection of our natural environment and landscape . hedgerow be essential carbon sink to help we meet our cop and convention on biological diversity commitment . research by CPRE , the Countryside Charity , find that expand the hedgerow network by 40 % would create more than 25 , 000 new job over the next three decade , and that for every £ 1 spend on hedgerow , a return of as much as £ 3 . 92 can be expect from the associate ecosystem service . I have hear from farmer that they want more hedgerow on their farm , but the lack of a skilled workforce be a barrier . I go to see Richard Bramley ' s farm near Tadcaster , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) . Richard be the chair of the National Farmers Union environment forum . he have plant hundred of metre of hedgerow , and it be great to see the biodiversity increase , with the associate carbon benefit . he say that the lack of a skilled workforce be a barrier to get more hedgerow . that and other area of green skill need to be tackle if we be to see an expansion of our hedgerow network . Richard also highlight the need for the availability of nursery stock . why be there now so few local authority nursery ? in Leeds , the Arium provide plant for the whole city , as well as raise revenue for the council . DEFRA and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities should offer seed funding for many more such nursery . Richard also highlight the need for continue payment for sensitive maintenance . he rightly point out that a good hedge , a store for carbon and a hive of biodiversity , could last century . we need to invest in those skill and skill - base activity if we be to see the necessary hedgerow planting and maintenance to meet our exist target . hedgerow produce crop and provide food for people and animal . when I attend the convention on biological diversity at the UN biodiversity conference at COP15 , government agree a new set of goal for nature over this decade . unfortunately , the UK be one of the most severely nature - deplete country worldwide , as we have hear successive Ministers admit . the Natural History Museum ' s biodiversity intactness index , probably the good indicator of global biodiversity , have reveal that the world have crash through the safe limit for humanity for biodiversity loss , and place the UK ' s 53 % score in the bottom 10 % of all country , well below China and last in the G7 . that be not a record of which any of we should be proud . the Conservatives ' Environment Act 2021 target on species abundance , which they be force to concede because of opposition amendment , promise only to " halt the decline " in specie by 2030 . just halt the decline , or get a net zero for nature , be not good enough . our ambition be to be nature positive . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the Government also set a target to increase species abundance in the period after 2030 . it be only through close analysis of the datum that we realise that be probably the good that could be achieve , even if we act immediately . I want to agree to disagree with the right hon . Gentleman . the fact that the baseline be so low make it an easy target , so that show a lack of ambition . let we have a general election and we can test that more accurately go forward . to finish , we need to focus on improve our rewilding , reforesting and biodiversity , and all natural landscape should be part of that . we need to fully support our farmer to be part of this transition . we will not get there without their support , their hard work , and the land they work on . thank you for allow I to catch your eye , Madam Deputy Speaker , in this important debate on farming , during which we have hear word of wisdom from no less than two former Secretaries of State and a number of other colleague , so important point have already be cover . I start by declare my interest as a lifelong farmer , so I may have a few point I can add . we have have an uncertain few year , with covid - 19 lockdown and the war in Ukraine contribute to a fluctuate global economy and a huge spike in energy price since 2021 . that , together with the inflation we have experience domestically , have mean unsustainable pressure on many farmer ’ business . farm input cost inflation in 2023 stand at 42 % , with wholesale energy price 1 . 5 time high compare with 2019 . these disruptive event have expose several vulnerability relate to the UK ' s food supply chain and self - sufficiency . the UK have see change over the year , influence by various factor , such as agricultural policy , technological advancement , globalisation and environmental concern . we have become increasingly interconnect with global food market , rely on import for a significant proportion of our food supply . while this provide access to a wide variety of food year - round , it also expose the UK to supply chain vulnerability , as see during the event of covid , Brexit and the war in Ukraine . in 1984 , the UK ' s overall food sufficiency be 78 % . in 2021 , it be 60 % . today , the nation be only 18 % self - sufficient in fruit , 55 % in vegetable and 71 % in potato . we need to produce policy that start to increase our self - sufficiency rate in those commodity . decline self - sufficiency couple with supply - chain problem abroad have result in occasional gap on our supermarket shelf . due to cost of living pressure , consumer have show sign of trading down to cheap protein . the trend for 2022 , for example , have show volume of beef down 6 % and lamb down 16 % . in November 2022 , grower ' cost of production have increase by as much as 27 % in the precede 12 month . UK egg production fall to its low in nine year , and be down 12 % in one year alone . the cost of feed for those producer have increase by 28 % , and the price of a pullet by 22 % . back in 2022 , I contribute to a debate on national food strategy and food security . at that time , the House be regularly discuss issue relate to energy market , with cost trickle down to consumer . similar conversation be not happen on the cost of food and the impact of rise cost on people ' s budget , although I do warn that rise food price would increasingly become an important issue to the public . food and energy price be highly regressive , cause those on low income to pay much more as a percentage of their budget than those high up the income scale . recent study have suggest that up to one in seven people in the UK have report go hungry due to the cost of living . therefore , secure our domestic food supply should not only support british farmer , but help bring cost down . great certainty from the food supply chain and the Government be need . this can be encourage through various mean : long - term certainty on access seasonal labour — the seasonal agriculture worker scheme — which be mention by several member tonight ; great productivity investment , which be mention by the Minister in her opening remark ; a more enable planning policy ; and measure to deliver growth and bolster food security . advance in agricultural technology , such as precision farming , vertical farming , hydroponic and genetic engineering offer opportunity to increase productivity and efficiency in food production . embrace these food technology can help boost domestic production and reduce reliance on import . farming be one of the sector that good embrace new technology , and I pay tribute to it for that . reform that prioritise sustainable agriculture , support small - scale farmer , and provide investment in research and development can improve self - sufficiency in food production . this might include payment for sustainable farming practice , incentive for local food production , and regulation that promote food sovereignty . at the NFU 2024 conference hold on 27 February , the Prime Minister announce : a new annual UK - wide food security index to capture and present the datum need to monitor level of food security ; a farm to fork summit to be hold annually , which begin in Downing Street last year ; and a £ 15 million fund to help tackle food waste from the farm gate . work that I have do through my role as deputy Chair of the Public Accounts Committee have examine the environmental land management scheme in some detail . we press hard for an annual report to Parliament on the goal to produce the statutory food index , which will help this House to keep track of how our production to obtain self - sufficiency be go . we must be careful about how much grade 1 and grade 2 land we take out of food production for environmental use , especially as the area of great ecological worth tend not to be in those high land grade . we have thousand of acre of very high grade land be take out in Lincolnshire for solar farm and windmill . that be surely unsustainable in the long run . as I say in a debate way back in 2020 , there will come a time when we need to produce as much food in this country as we possibly can . as the temperature rise with global warming , the temperate area of northern Europe will be able to produce more of the food that be need in the world . payment to farmer , aim at keep food price down , have be a cornerstone of UK agriculture since the war . in country that be our major competitor , such as France and the US , from which I have just return — I be on a visit with the Public Accounts Committee — some price in supermarket be double what they be in our supermarket . that highlight the impact of our subsidy in keep food affordable domestically . however , it be unsustainable to reduce payment to farmer , even for well - need public good , and rely solely on import cheap food from around the world . in recent week , we have see farmer protest in Brussels and in other european capital . last week , that also happen in Wales . I be not surprised that farmer in Wales be outraged at their Labour Government ' s emphasis on the environment over agriculture ; there be plan for farmer there to commit to have tree on 10 % of their land , and to use another 10 % as wildlife habitat . good as those thing may be , it would be hard for a small farmer already struggle on the breadline to have 20 % of their land take out . it show that the Welsh Government have no consideration for the loss of job and livelihood that the policy will produce . british farmer be hold to incredibly high environmental , animal welfare , and food quality standard , as I indicate to my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , but we must not allow our trade deal with other country to result in our farmer be undercut by low - quality , cheap product . equally , we must look to the long - term health of our nation . we need to ensure that we continue to produce food to high standard , because that benefit consumer , and we must do what we can to maintain that . modern agricultural practice , include intensive farming and monoculture , have raise concern about environmental sustainability , include soil degradation , water pollution , and biodiversity loss . the pollution of our river in the UK be a huge challenge . there be problem result from agriculture , such as run - off of nitrate and phosphate . eventually , we must come up with a plan that allow farmer to apply these nutrient to grow their crop but do not lead to unnecessary run - off in our river . as my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal mention , action to help reduce pollution include the " plan for Water " , which would provide £ 200 million of funding through slurry infrastructure grant . water company play a crucial part in the pollution of our river . I be delighted that it be a Conservative Government who introduce the Environment Act 2021 , which oblige water company to install meter on all their outlet , so that we can see whether they be adhere to their environmental discharge condition . I be particularly delighted to have obtain a grant from Thames Water for Ampney St Peter ' s sewage work in my constituency , which be one of the most egregious outlet of sewage ; it will be worth several million pound and have be budget for . I have have similar confirmation for sewage work in Moreton and Bourton . the production of cost - effective , wholesome food be vital for every single person in this country . however , it must be grow in an environmentally sustainable way ; we must take step to ensure clean river and reduce carbon through improve method of production . it be also incumbent on the Government to ensure that farmer , who be the ultimate guardian of the countryside , be properly reward for their onerous work . they be often try to combat adverse weather condition . will the hon . member give way ? if Madam Deputy Speaker will allow I to give way and increase my time a bit , I will happily do so . briefly , do the hon . Member agree that there be real concern about adverse climate condition across the sector , include from farm , and those involve in community - support agriculture , particularly Canalside Community Food ? heavy rain have lead to really heavy soil , which be hard to plough , and that will affect the yield and timing of crop . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who have only just come into the debate . we on the Public Accounts Committee give a lot of attention to the work of the Environment Agency . it could do much more not only to promote new flooding scheme , but to maintain its exist flooding scheme , which would help protect a number of farm and house . I strongly support the Government ' s policy of buy local . there be only two way that farmer can continue in business : either they get payment for public good and benefit , or they get a price that reflect the cost of production . it be slightly disappointing that the Government have not do more to encourage all supermarket — there be some good one and some bad one , to be fair — to pay price to the farming community that reflect the cost of production . the Government could do more through the Groceries Code Adjudicator to ensure that that be the case . DEFRA have commit to ensure contractual fairness between supermarket and farmer — to ensure that supermarket meet certain expectation , include the expectation that they will pay on time , pay what they agree and , vitally , pay at least the cost of production . that be important if we be to ensure a healthy and sustainable food supply , and to ensure that the hard work that produce it continue in the long run . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) . like he , I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ; I be an owner of farmland and a partner in the firm that manage it . agriculture be enormously important to Scotland as a whole , but particularly to rural Scotland and island Scotland . NFU Scotland remind we that it be a £ 3 . 3 billion industry , employ 67 , 000 worker in Scotland , with a further 150 , 000 work in agricultural activity . when we consider that the money earn and bring into the community through farming have a spin - off in ensure that there be post office , local shop and the critical mass of people need for village and rural school , we understand the importance of the sector to Scotland . I will be back in the Chamber at the close of business tomorrow night with an Adjournment debate on the Groceries Code Adjudicator . the large number of member who have refer to it in this debate make I hope that I will not be on my own for once in an Adjournment debate . that issue strike at the heart of what be necessary if farming be to be sustainable and self - sustain in the future . farming and crofting be critical to the economy of the northern isle . orkney be prime suckler beef pasture . we have have beef farming at the heart of our economy for what feel like forever , while Shetland , with its more rugged landscape , be ideal for the production of sheep , especially the native breed , shetland sheep . the old see that the Orcadian be a farmer with a boat while the Shetlander be a fisherman with a croft remain true to this day . in recent year , price have be decent , but every time I speak to my neighbour in Orkney , and to farmer and crofter throughout Orkney and Shetland , it be difficult to get away from the lack of certainty that I hear about from they , especially — it pain I to say it — among young farmer , who be ask whether the industry have a future . I believe that it do — in fact , agriculture be not a single industry but a collection of different industry — but I can see why so many of they have that concern . I have notice over the year , as a farmer ' s son and as a representative of an agricultural community , that piece by piece , and sector by sector , the importance of farming have be diminish . once we have lose a sector , we never get it back . I look at dairy farming in my constituency . we have see a significant reduction in the number of dairy farm in Orkney , and in Shetland we be down to just two . we talk about food security . in Shetland , in the depth of winter , we quite often go up to a week without a ferry to bring in food . the supermarket shelf be just bare , but in that time , the one part of the supermarket and country shop where people can still see something on the shelf be the fridge that contain milk , because we have a local supply . if those two dairy farmer be to decide that they could not carry on production , follow the example of their neighbour and colleague , and leave the sector , that would leave we completely at the mercy of import for milk . we talk about public money for public good . surely the continue production of milk in Shetland be a public good , and scheme that spend public money on support agriculture should be construct in a way that allow that to continue . the shape of future funding be critical to address the uncertainty that I hear speak about by the farmer and crofter in my constituency . the hon . member for Coatbridge , Chryston and Bellshill ( Steven Bonnar ) speak about the First Minister ' s contribution to the recent NFU Scotland conference . his announcement about the 70 % be welcome , but the hon . Member must know as well as I do that a great deal more detail be require . the lack of detail lead to continue uncertainty . we need certainty about not just the structure of future funding but its quantum . we need a multi - annual ringfence budget . that require the Scottish Government and the UK Government to work together constructively , which should not be that difficult , but somehow it never seem to be quite as easy as it ought to be . the House may be aware that Scotland ' s farming budget be link to the UK ' s . it be peg at about 17 % of the UK ' s farming budget , in recognition of the different structure in Scotland and the importance of agriculture to Scotland ' s economy , but the policy in Scotland be increasingly divergent from those south of the border in England , and in Wales and Northern Ireland . that be essentially the point of devolution . it be sensible and necessary to have divergence in policy , but that diversity risk be undermine if there be not the resource in the budget to accommodate it . if the consequence of the change in England be a small amount of public money go into farming there , that risk scottish farming assistance be reduce and become inadequate for the job that it be require to do . the Treasury need to come forward with a framework base on a multi - annual agreement , because we all know that farming be not an industry that will work on an annual budget ; it need a multi - annual settlement . we must also ensure that funding be ringfence , so that the money can not be take away and put into something else if there be another winter crisis in the NHS , or whatever . I agree with the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) about the importance of abattoir . in many way , the absence of small local abattoir be indicative of the problem face the agricultural sector and rural community as a whole . we be ship animal around the countryside by whatever mean , be it by ferry from Orkney or Shetland to the mainland , or by road and motorway on the mainland . animal be be slaughter in great number in a small number of location — as a consequence , I believe , of the way in which supermarket drive down price , and the fact that it be so much cheap for animal to be slaughter in that way . that definitely work to the detriment of farmer in my constituency . I understand why there be no function abattoir in Orkney . I remember well the many problem of regulation , particularly in relation to the disposal of offal , that ultimately mean that abattoir could not continue there , but at the end of the day , for a community that be proud of its animal welfare and the quality of the meat that it produce , that simply make no sense . with a bit of native wit , flexibility and creativity , something well be surely possible . there be so many way in which agriculture , farming and crofte impinge on life in my community , so I could talk for a great deal long , but I suspect that be also true of many other right hon . and hon . member , so I will give they the chance to have their voice . when think of Sedgefield , I be sure people have the perception — due , in particular , to one of my predecessor — that we be a collection of ex - mining village and little else . although I be constantly inspire by many within my mining village , Sedgefield be in fact a particularly diverse constituency , cover about 250 square mile , with many farmer operate amazing business . I have be delighted to engage with many of they since well before the day I be elect . as my wife be the daughter of a Yorkshire farmer , I have have an insight into their world for about 40 year . I do not have the level of insight of the two former Secretaries of State who have speak — my right hon . friend the Members for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) and for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) — but the world of our farmer be particularly challenging at the moment , and I would like to take some time to outline point that they have raise with I . when I ask Mark Dent , a farmer who also run the Darlington Farmers Auction Mart in my constituency , for a contribution for today , he say to I : " I wouldn ' t know where to start , Paul " . I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) empathise , because he have have conversation with he too . Mark Dent say : " there be so many issue and challenge face the industry " . I want to get those issue in front of the Minister . Mark continue : " these include access to european market , cost of input , cost of machinery , cheap import , interest rate , successive year of challenge weather top off with the loss of direct payment " — that be the way the rant go . " with an age demographic in the farmer population , many be scale back as it ' s no long viable and the young can ' t afford to get a start with the cost of everything , land and rent land be the main stumbling block as that be now be drive by the new environmental scheme and the historic tax haven for millionaire businessman who don ' t farm themselves . we be sleepwalk into a food security problem . I do applaud the government for their recent effort , but use farming to meet their net zero target be not the answer if they want food and at a price everyone can afford . you can ' t have cheap food without … support with all the cost challenge farmer face . think throw a bit of money at environmental scheme ( which be more land come out of food production ) will be enough to subsidise necessary food production be naive . farmer will take the easy , most cost - effective option . " the Hart family from Foxton say : " the last thing English Farmers want be the Welsh Labour System impose on they if we lose the election . take 20 % of land out , 10 % for the environment and 10 % for tree be unrealistic . plus , the new rule govern holiday let make a mockery of diversify business . the whole point of farmer make holiday let be to supplement income . but if the new law govern second home and holiday let come into force , it could make it unrealistic to carry on . in Wales farm can not afford in many case to carry on with holiday let under the new rule impose on they . farmer would prefer to farm their land for their income . " they say that because farm income be at a historic low , there be nothing leave " by the time you have pay the bank back , your cost for produce your product and hopefully pay yourself . this impact the wide farming world of machinery sale and repair . if farm can not afford new investment and machine , we lose skilled mechanic , and company be close due to lack of sale " — it go down the supply chain . they continue : " the knock - on effect be far large than just what stop at the farm gate . a generation of farmer will be lose at the rate the industry be decline " , and that these day more and more farmer diversify " to supplement the family income or be involve with develop and run holiday let , camp site , farm shop , teashop etc to try and break even let alone make a profit . " the Harts also say : " there be too much red tape . " one of their big concern be that cheap foreign import get label as british because they be process here . that have to be stop ; we need to be clear what be and be not british food . they say : " as a nation we need to be able to feed ourselves , we need to look carefully at how we use our land , regard build wind , and solar farm . there be so many concern around the resilience of our farming sector , and we need to ensure environmental power development be not on good farmland . " the lawson from Bishopton tell I : " there be a lot of farmer be tempt into change productive farmland into nutrient neutrality or biodiversity net gain credit and take bulk payment from developer . this land will then not be able to be use for grow food for either the next 80 or 30 year respectively . " should we be worried ? what be the plan for feed our population ? farmer be do that because they can not make a return on the land by keep it in agricultural use . farmer enjoy farm , but a lot of they need to change just to survive . we should do all we can to deliver sustainable economic to our farmer . Steven Brown from Sedgefield ask I : " in view of the increase levy payable to the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board , will more of the budget be allocate to advertise UK food production rather than research and development ? " he mention " the need for a reduction in red tape , a reduction in duplication of farm assurance scheme and well return for UK farmer for quality product as oppose to cheap import of inferior product . " Billy Maughan farm on the border between my constituency and Bishop Auckland . he have cattle , arable and free - range layer , and be the NFU council delegate . he say to I : " there be a couple of point around Defra capacity … firstly , it be around capacity for the Animal and Plant Health Agency to manage notifiable disease outbreak . avian influenza be still the single big risk to our business . there be case of Bluetongue in the country that could affect our cattle , and my fellow farmer with pig be hugely concerned about the risk of African Swine Flu get into the country . be there sufficient contingency planning in place to cope with a large - scale outbreak of one or more of these disease ? secondly , it be about the resource within Defra to roll out the new SFI standard due this summer . will they be delay or announce on time ? also , be there enough capacity to process the application as the number of application increase ? " finally , Anna Simpson , the NFU county advisor , say we need to ensure that " all new policy and regulation that impact agricultural and horticultural business undergo a food security impact assessment " , and that we need " a seamless transition to new environmental scheme that be open to all farmer and grower " and " public access to the countryside to be manage responsibly whilst recognise that much of it be an active work environment . " she also say that we need to " implement the recommendation of the Rock Review into agricultural tenancy , to support the long - term resilience of a tenanted sector , deliver on food production and environmental goal " and must have " a consistent and coordinated response to rural crime across government and police force . " in summary , my farming community be concern about : the burden of red tape ; what it see as the abuse of scheme that make it look to the public like they be buy British when the product be only process in the UK ; the capacity of APHA to support the industry ; and the unintended consequence of other policy on the farming community . it be particularly concerned that well - mean environmental initiative be impact on the resilience of farming , and it be absolutely terrified that the Welsh model could come to England . food security , like many other area of UK resilience , be bring into sharp focus by the covid pandemic and the war in Ukraine . it be critical that we do all we can to support our farmer in deliver UK resilience . there be no one more interested and engage in the land than our farmer , and we must trust they to look after it . it be a pleasure to speak in this much - need debate on farming , especially as I be the proud representative of what I believe to be the most rural labour constituency in the country , although my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) have spend the past hour hotly dispute that claim . it be crucial that my local farming community know that I hear their concern and priority , and that I be fight for they in this House . despite the Conservatives ' claim to be the voice of rural community , the reality be that many farmer feel short - change by this Conservative Government and , like the rest of the country , be desperate for change . the Prime Minister say to farmer a few week ago , " you don ' t do it for the money … you do it because you love it . " he conjure a nostalgic image of an artisanal age , rather than the reality that we should be proud of : a serious , powerful , £ 14 billion industry that be vital to our national health , our national security and our national heritage . farmer love what they do , but farm can not run on love alone . since 2017 , more than 6 , 000 agricultural business have collapse , pay the price for the Tory failure to provide they with the support that they deserve . a farmer in Britain today endure insufficient flooding support , uncompetitive price , botched trade deal , and labour supply challenge . as consolation , they be leave with the bitter encouragement : " not to worry , because the Prime Minister know you love what you do . " that be not good enough , it have never be good enough , and it be a desperate legacy of 14 year of Conservative Government . we need to turn the page in this country and provide a real offer for farming community . in his speech two week ago , the Prime Minister say one thing that I think rang true — there be a first time for everything . he say that one reason farmer do what they do be that they " feel a responsibility , " but I do not think he quite realise how deeply that responsibility be feel by farmer in my constituency . as I mention in a Westminster Hall debate , and will continue to mention until I be blue in the face , farmer in my constituency who live between Wistow , Cawood and Kelfield work every day to hold back hundred of acre of floodwater on their land , year after year , to stop it reach people ' s doorstep in Selby . they be lose hundred of thousand of pound in do so , their crop be be drown on prime arable land , and they be receive zero compensation for it . in one case , not only be a farmer hold back floodwater on hundred of acre , but he find that the Environment Agency be pump more water on to his field from its floodwater infrastructure , which have reach dangerous level of capacity . he ask I what he should do : continue to have his livelihood ruin , or let the water reach and ruin people ' s home ? if someone could tell I in what universe pile responsibility on to farmer whose sector be face a mental health crisis be a logical way to carry out flood management in this country in 2024 , I would be eager to hear their answer . in such grave circumstance , farmer in my community deserve clarity . I would welcome the Minister provide an update on how discussion be progress with the RPA on the farming recovery fund , and set out the extent to which eligibility for the farming recovery fund will go beyond that provide in the flood recovery framework . I can not begin to express how unacceptable it would be for Yorkshire farmer to be exclude from the help they so urgently need after endure such a hard winter and have protect community like Selby from flood for so long . that say , it remain the case that long - term support for the farmer store floodwater be need — support that go beyond what the FRF can provide and that recognise the inherent public good that farmer do in protect home from risk . as with so many of the crisis that this Government have preside over , we be leave with a similar challenge : to take immediate action to counteract the freefall that they have create while also produce the change that be so desperately need to provide a long - term future for the farming industry . some of these thing could be do in the near future . the Prime Minister say that he would implement an annual statutory food security index when parliamentary time allow . I do not wish to be rude , but the Government be not preside over an era of unflagge legislative vigour . if they care about the nation ' s food security , they should get on with it and legislate for it now . if they be not up for the job , we have a Labour party commit to do right by farmer . we on the Labour Benches will happily step up and take the action that we need . a Labour Government would pursue a new veterinary agreement with the EU , back the NFU ' s Buy british campaign to source 50 % of food in the public sector from british farmer , simplify the elm scheme so that more farmer can enjoy economic and environmental benefit , and encourage defra to meet its own departmental spending ambition in a way that provide value for money for the taxpayer . most importantly for my local area , a Labour Government would be commit to create a flood resilience taskforce to stop the buck pass between the Government , the EA , the internal drainage board and the water company , to ensure that farmer know that when bad weather strike , the Labour Government will stand four - square behind they with a join - up plan to have their back . farmer in my constituency need to know not that they will be admire for their work by the Government , but that they will be fairly remunerated for what they do and give the support , tool and respect that they need not just to survive , but to thrive . I look forward to fight alongside the farmer of Selby and Ainsty , every single step of the way , to achieve that . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) , although I will stay out of the minor internal argument between he and the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) about who be more rural . although I have no technical interest to declare , I once more remind the House that member of my family be farmer , and that I have the privilege of chair the all - party parliamentary group on farming . let I be clear from the outset : our farmer be the very good in the world and produce the very good food that it be possible to produce . that be important across my constituency , which enjoy an agricultural economy . to put that into sharp focus , 90 % of the land in my constituency be agricultural land . I welcome the speech by my right hon . friend the Prime Minster at the National Farmers Union conference last month . as an aside , I welcome the new team at the NFU of Tom Bradshaw , David Exwood and Rachel Hallos , who have be mention . David Exwood in particular be so helpful and supportive as I pilot my private Member ' s Bill — now the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 — on prevent the theft of agricultural equipment through Parliament last year . of course , I salute and pay tribute to Minette Batters for her many year of excellent service to the british farming community as she step down from her role . it be vital that we back our farmer . we must maintain food production as the primary focus . to add a little more cross - party consensus to the debate , I think that the comment by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) be good . he give the example of milk production , but the production of food and drink , full stop , be a public good , and we should see it as such . if we do not have food and drink , we all know what would happen . the announcement on the doubling of the management payment for SFI to up to £ 2 , 000 and on its extension to new countryside stewardship mid - tier agreement be extremely welcome . likewise , we have the big ever package of grant , with the £ 220 million productivity and innovation scheme support thing such as robotic , and a new round of the farming equipment and technology fund . that be all good news . indeed , I have see the value of such funding stream in my constituency , include at the partly government - fund 300 - cow Addingrove dairy between Long Crendon and Oakley . it be the most incredible custom - build , future - proof robotic dairy with its own pasteurisation room , as well as its own vending machine — one that do milkshake make from delicious Buckinghamshire milk , as my child have discover to the cost of my wallet . that dairy will ensure a bright future for farming on that land for many decade to come . however , it be not all about robotic and grand innovation , important as those thing be . we must also get the basic right . we must ensure that all farmer be able to access the support that they need to do the thing that they most want to do and that that nation need they to do : produce food . that come with a number of challenge , but critically , it have the public ' s support . recent polling show that 94 % of people say it be important that the government back british farming and food production , and 81 % prefer british food to import food — why that figure be not 100 % , I do not know , but it be still a very high statistic . the first step in get the transition from CAP to SFI and ELMS right be the physical process . too many farmer I speak to have not yet even attempt an SFI application . some do not believe that it will be worth it , some be just wait to see , and other just want to get on with farming , not endless paperwork . I look to my hon . friend the Minister to update the House , when he wind up , on the overall uptake of SFI application , and more importantly on what step be be take to make the process easy . as a warning , I will be sit in on an SFI application in the come week , so I can assure he that I will be ready with feedback of my own . the second point be that we need a clear goal for what we be try to achieve on food security domestically . the new UK - wide food security index be extremely positive , but it need to come with a realistic target that be high than the one we have now — something achievable to aim for that shift the dial upwards from the current 60 % figure . only then can we have a sensible , cross - Government conversation about the value we place on food production as part of the many compete demand on land , because I guarantee that one way to achieve the opposite of increase self - sufficiency be give over vast swathe of agricultural land to ground - mount solar installation , battery storage and other large - scale development . I entirely support move to make it easy under the planning system to develop old barn or other redundant farm building into something more useful , or perhaps build a second farmhouse , a farm shop or a restaurant . likewise , I support barn - top solar — on roof , where solar should be — but the thousand of acre of farmland be actively build out for solar , or propose for solar or battery storage , in my constituency alone be depressing and wrong . the late 2 , 100 - acre abomination in the Claydons , know as Rosefield , would dwarf the geographic size of the town of Buckingham and devastate the landscape forever , and for what ? those 2 , 000 acre will power approximately 50 , 000 home on current usage , when a small modular reactor need just two football pitch to power a million home . Solar be not a good use of agricultural land , and to those who try to say that protection exist for the good land , that be just not the reality I see in practice . there be land be take for this purpose that be deem to be 3b , even though it will often produce a 10 tonne per hectare wheat harvest . furthermore , the system be far too often game by developer : they take land test from the headland , which will obviously produce a low grading after testing . for food security , for the beauty of our countryside and for real science , the Government need to end this ground - mount solar nonsense for good , and do so now . that neatly lead I on to the impact that infrastructure project have on our farmer . my constituency suffer from the horror of 19 mile of hs2 construction . I have speak many time in this Chamber about that impact , but for the sake of this debate , it be vital that DEFRA step up and play its part in protect farmer from that state - sponsor infrastructure project . HS2 Ltd and its contractor have no idea what they be do when it come to agriculture , yet their action have a huge impact on farming , from rob farmer of their topsoil to cause flooding to neighbouring field in crop , cut farm in two — make it impossible to move large equipment or animal — and fail to properly compensate for land take or loss of profitability . for example , cattle loss have blight numerous farm as a result of poor soil treatment and management by HS2 ' s contractor , which be often operate right next door . one farmer have quote a total loss of over £ 37 , 000 as a direct result of hs2 ' s shoddy practice . how be that morally justifiable for this project ? how can a hard - work farming family be leave with such heavy loss ? then there be blackleg , a disease in cattle that be cause by bacteria release from disturb soil . I be aware of at least one case in my constituency that the farmer have attribute to HS2 ' s malpractice — it be noteworthy that farmer in this area have never see a blackleg case before . no prize be available for guess how much compensation have be offer , but for the avoidance of all doubt , it be zero . we need all part of Government to wake up to the devastating impact these project have on real people , real farmer and real business , and put proper process in place to support and compensate they . I gently urge the Minister to ensure that DEFRA play its part in that . the land take for state project more widely must stop , not least in my constituency . the determination of the Ministry of Justice to compulsorily purchase a farm adjacent to HMP Spring Hill and HMP Grendon to build yet another mega - prison be universally oppose by all the local community that surround it , and by I . again , DEFRA must get more involve in stop this nonsense , which will take away farm and far hit our food security . early , I refer to rural crime . I be assure by police that my private Member ' s Bill — now an Act — to prevent agricultural equipment theft will make a difference , but farmer be suffer on a daily basis from theft and other rural crime . I urge DEFRA to do more to work with the Home Office and our police force to combat those crime . my own local force , Thames Valley , be lead the way : its rural crime taskforce be do heroic work every single day of the week , and our police and crime commissioner , Matthew Barber , have ensure that the force have the resource to double the number of officer in that team in the 2024 - 25 financial year . however , more need to be do . I have probably speak for too long . there be many more subject that I could cover , include trade deal ; flooding ; water quality ; the excellent point that my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) make , and which I entirely endorse , about the need to keep the badger cull to prevent further outbreak of bovine TB ; mental health ; and the RPA . however , I will conclude by say that we must get all the point that I have mention right , but we must also be positive about the future of british agriculture . we must celebrate our farmer as the very good in the world . they be the custodian of our countryside who maintain its beauty , but most of all they be the producer of what we all love to eat . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) , who make a series of very good point about his own constituency and agriculture in general . it be my great privilege to represent around 1 , 100 farm across Westmorland and the rest of my very beautiful constituency in the lake and the dale . when I talk to those farmer , it be clear that they feel a sense of deep anger at the situation they currently face . I pay tribute to they for provide our food , be the custodian of our countryside , protect our town and village from flooding , and maintain the backdrop to an outstanding and world - class tourism economy worth £ 3 . 5 billion a year . my view on how wise it be for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union be a matter of record . have say that , as many of we will acknowledge , leave the common agricultural policy strike I as one of those rare thing : a potential Brexit benefit ; a silver lining to a deep , dark cloud . however , the Government have manage to botch it . pretty much everybody in this House get behind the general principle of the environmental land management scheme — public money for public good — but my great fear be that the Government have fail in the delivery of those scheme , for two obvious reason . the first be the accidental nature of the transition and the thing that they have predictably get wrong ; the second be the design of the scheme themselves . on the accidental part of it all , the Government promise to ringfence £ 2 . 4 billion for agriculture in England , and they have not spend it . over the past two year , they have underspent by £ 270 million . we do not need a mathematical genius to work out how that have come about : if the government predictably take away big chunk of the basic payment every year — £ 500 million have now go out of farmer ' pocket — and then introduce the thing that replace it in a haphazard manner , to the tune of just over £ 200 million , of course people be leave with less money and money be take out of agriculture . we have hear about the difficulty people face in get into the SFI , so 100 % of those who be in the BPS will have lose half of that money by the end of this year , while only one in eight farmer be in the SFI . that be all totally predictable , yet the Government apparently do not foresee it . various people have talk about the iterative process of bring in the SFI scheme . of course DEFRA be go to develop new scheme and improvement along the way , but because that be happen , many farmer be hold back ; they be not apply , because they think something good might come around the corner . meanwhile , they be lose their basic payment and get more and more desperate , and the consequence be really awful . one consequence be that many farmer I speak to , include some I speak to last week , be make the decision against their well judgment to massively increase their livestock number . I speak to one farmer who be more than treble their livestock at their Lakeland farm just because they think it be the only way they could manage to pay the rent — the only way they could keep their head above water — even though they know that very act will undo the good work that they and their family have do for 20 or 30 year beforehand . it be heartbreaking and counterproductive to our aim to increase and improve nature as a consequence of these plan . the other consequence be even more awful , however : farmer face complete and total ruin . People who have farm their farm for generation — perhaps the fifth , sixth or seventh generation — be now look down the barrel of a gun , realise they could be the one who lose that farm . many people have talk about the great threat of mental health crisis face farmer . I have never see anything as frightening as what be face farmer at the moment when they see not just the loss of their business and income , but that great sense of shame that they be the one who will lose the family farm , even though it be no fault of theirs ; it be the fault of this botched transition . for upland livestock farmer this have mean a 41 % decrease in income in the last four year , just during this Parliament . People who be poor to start off with and be work at below the living wage be now earn even less . we have hear scathing remark about the Welsh Labour Government , justify I be sure . I be tell this be merely a consultation , but what Conservative member be accuse the Welsh Labour Government of do top down they have already do bottom up in England . they have do exactly the same thing , take land out of food production and impoverish farmer . farmer will be push out of farming and that will reduce the number of hand available in the countryside to deliver environmental good . we could have the good environmental policy on the planet , but they will achieve the square root of zero if there be nobody there to deliver they . if we take farmer off the land , we have nobody to introduce and implement our green policy . perhaps the most obvious thing that reduce the number of farmer will do be reduce our ability to feed ourselves . this be an absolute nonsense : we have a range of public good and none of they seem to include provide food for the people of Britain . at a time when we have war in eastern Europe , trade route disrupt in the Red sea , and climate change render land around the world unfarmable , it be utter madness to be take land out of active food production and reduce our ability to feed ourselves . it be also environmentally counterproductive because we will still eat , I assume , so what will we do ? we will import more food from overseas and that in itself be damaging to the climate because of the food mile involve in get the food here . also , where will that food come from ? if we do not rear cattle in the United Kingdom , where will we get our beef from ? it will come from cattle rear on pastureland in South America that use to be rainforest . Britain feed itself be important for the environment locally and globally , but there be also a major moral reason why Britain should feed itself . we be , relatively speak , a wealthy country and will probably , war and disruption aside , be able to feed ourselves , so where will we go to feed ourselves ? we will raid and put pressure on the commodity market where the poor country in the world also go for their food . we will impoverish and take food out of the mouth of some of the poor people in the world . to feed ourselves be not just intelligent and about security , and be not just environmentally sensible , but there be also a very strong moral imperative as to why we should do it . we have hear reference to the trade deal and the reality be that , yes , the UK have the good farmer in the world , but the reason why we have the good farmer be because of the model of the family farm — the culture that underpin the way we farm in this country . that mean high standard , and if we trade away those standard not only be that wrong because we undermine the importance of animal welfare and environmental standard , but we throw our farmer under a bus , which be what this Government do in the Australia and New Zealand trade deal . I be not say those on the Front Bench think this at the moment , but many in the conservative party , include a former Prime Minister , take the view that it be far well for we to be buccaneer on the international trade market and that , through the free market , we will feed ourselves by cheap import so we do not really need to grow our own food here . Fairness be vital to food security on trade deal . the Groceries Code Adjudicator be a wonderful potential referee , but it need card , red one in particular . it need the ability to investigate all part of the supply chain , not just the retailer . it need the freedom to be able to take referral from the like of we — member of Parliament — the NFU and other , and not just rely on a farmer dobbe in the person he or she sell his produce to , because that be not go to happen very often . the GCA should be give more power and more reach and be able to take referral from anyone . grant be discuss . one of the thing the Government be do as part of ELMS be grant support for farmer . that be very good , but many farmer need money in the bank in the first place to prove that they can fund the other part of the infrastructure project they be fund and bid for grant support for . that mean many farmer will have to be wealthy in order to bid for a grant in the first place . that be not acceptable . I want to make a few remark about tenant . fairness in the food chain , and in farming in particular , have to focus on the deep unfairness in our land around the country , particularly in the design of the Government landscape recovery programme . I be up Kentmere on Thursday morning with farmer who be in a landscape recovery project and do really good work — woodland pasture and keep a flock on the fell , a good example of how this can be do well . however , those farmer say to I that they be a rare example of it work well , because the problem be there be not enough people work in Natural England to help farmer into those scheme , either the high tier scheme or landscape recovery . as a result , only the large farmer with sufficient resource and enough time on their hand to be able to get into the scheme be do so . small farmer , owner - occupier and tenant be not get into those scheme , and the environment be suffer as a result , and the farmer be suffer because of the lack of income as they lose their basic payment with nothing really to replace it . I be deeply concerned about the impact on tenant of the reality of what be go on out there . I be just outside Kirkby Stephen on Friday morning , speak to a group of farmer , most of they tenant , and what they report and what I have hear from other source be deeply chilling . landlord be ride roughshod over tenant , use landscape recovery as a means to do so , and it be utterly appalling . we be see tenant be evict and be push to give up AHA — Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 — tenancy , and we be see large landowner put pressure on small landowner to evict their tenant as well so they can form part of a wide landscape recovery system . Baroness Rock put together an excellent report and review with 70 recommendation , and the Government have not enact they . I be see tenant in our community in Cumbria be force off the land . we be refer to it , justly I be afraid , as the Lakeland clearance , all because of the way the Government have design this scheme and be allow it to work . we desperately need the recommendation of the Rock review to be in place now . I ask the Government , and the Minister in particular , to pay particular attention to this outrage . we have Government money — public money , landscape recovery money — go into the hand of wealthy owner , include City financial institution . there be no doubt whatsoever , as farmer tell I this up and down Cumbria , that less and less money be go into the hand of few but wealthy farmer , and all because the Government will not ensure — this be something we be allow to do now we be no long in the EU — the farm budget go to active farmer . Natural England need more resource , but it also need to learn from its action and the mistake it make over the dartmoor debacle , because many farmer face the roll - over of high - tier scheme be be hold to ransom by Natural England . they be be tell they have to reduce 25 % or more of their stocking number despite there be no evidence of what good this will do to the environment — no evidence be be put out there at all . our community in the Lake district be award world heritage site status just a few year ago . in the report UNESCO present when we get that status it give as much credit to the farmer as to the glacier . we see Liverpool lose its world heritage site status the other year , which be a reminder that it can happen . Natural England be push farmer , not on new scheme but on the roll - over of exist scheme , to reduce their stocking number on the basis of no evidence whatsoever , and we be put our world heritage status at risk due to this massive overreach . I believe the Government have fall for that nonsense that there be a divide between food production and environmental protection . there be no such thing . farmer be the custodian of our environment , and they be the one who feed we . the green thing this government could do be keep farmer farm so they can deliver those environmental scheme , and the most intelligent thing this government could do be set a real target for how much food we will produce in this country — up from 60 % to at least 70 % — to make sure they do what their first principle must be : ensure that every single home in this country have enough food to eat . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) . I do not often agree with he , but on farming I be pretty much on board with he . I pay tribute to Minette Batters , who have do a wonderful job as president of the NFU , and good luck to Tom Bradshaw , who be take over . I pay tribute to the NFU as an organisation , with which I work extremely closely . before I carry on , I refer to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . before I first get this job back in 2010 , I set up a quarterly meeting for Dorset farmer , start with south Dorset farmer . in those day , two or three attend . now the meeting have go to about 50 or 60 farmer who meet every quarter to discuss all the farming issue . I be grateful to several Ministers who have come down to talk to they personally at my request . what be rather alarming be that the issue they raise back in 2008 , 2009 and 2010 be in many case still relevant today . when I ask they , " have thing improve ? " their answer , on the whole , be no . they be amazed , as be I , that food security be now something we all talk about . it have not be talk about for an awfully long time , and hon . member have already note that food security have be ignore for far too long . now , we have another war in Europe , and the world be in a terrible state . food security , not least for these island , have now become a prominent issue , as it should be . what my farmer say be that we leave the EU to reduce red tape and to get out of the common agricultural policy , and it be an extremely good thing that we do , but they be now ask for common sense — not target , not overly environmental eco - zealotry and not force issue on to farmer that turn they to grow wild flower . there be a place for wild flower , but why do this country of ours look so beautiful ? why do so many million of people come to this country and go to Scotland , Ireland and Dorset ? it be because the countryside be absolutely stunning . in most case , who have do that ? it be the farmer . they be tired , as be I , of be attack left , right and centre for do all these thing it be claim they be do when in many case they be not . I want to touch on a few issue from my farming group . the first be the Poole harbour catchment area . the Minister be listen intently , and I be glad that he be . I hope he be aware of the issue we have at Poole harbour . I know that the parliamentary Private Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) be actively involve in try to get that across to Government . we understand that nitrate leaching into Poole harbour be a problem ; we have no issue with that . where we have an issue be that the tool the Environment Agency have use to measure it have now be change . when it do the first test , to everyone ' s delight the test be way below the level they think it would be , so what have the Environment Agency do ? it have move the goalpost , with no consultation at all with the farmer . they do not have much faith in the Environment Agency , and they now have even less . I touch on quango in an intervention on the shadow Minister . I remember that Lord Cameron , as he be now , say back in 2010 that we would have a bonfire of the quango . there be a place for such organisation , but they have become extremely powerful . they be implement policy that do not ring true with the Government ' s direction of travel . Natural England and the Environment Agency be now do thing that , if I be hear those on the Front Bench correctly , I can not believe they agree with . we have no issue with try to reduce nitrate into Poole harbour , but there be no way as we understand it — we have the water company come to talk to we — that it can gauge the volume of sewage go into the river . we know it be happen , but the actual volume be almost impossible to gauge . Tenant farmer have be mention , and I entirely concur with the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale from the Liberal Democrats that some tenant be feel extremely vulnerable . we be hear story of land be take back in hand to take advantage of environmental scheme , and in some case rent be be increase significantly . other be experience problem with land agent employ by landlord . the Rock review have be mention , and I urge the Government to look at it and enact many of its excellent recommendation . my next topic be slightly off farming , but it relate to it , and that be the reintroduction of beaver . there have be a report of a beaver be release illegally in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset . that be cause concern . I believe that reintroduction have be experiment with in Scotland to a large degree . if we be to re - wild , I suppose there be some sense in put beaver in large river , but there be no sense in reintroduce beaver into small chalk stream , or any other form of stream in Dorset . beaver dam river . they would be protect , no doubt , by every organisation that would want to protect they . Farmland would then flood . as have be prove in Scotland , beaver do not hang around and say , " this be my home . " they breed and move elsewhere and do the same in other river . as I understand it , they have to be cull in Scotland , because they break out of the area give to they . can the government please look not only at the illegal releasing of beaver into river , if that be happen — it have not be prove yet — but the legal release ? there be an emphasis on re - wilding . while we all want to see wild animal , there be a proper place and location for each specie . next be the move from stewardship scheme to the sustainable farming incentive . we have hear about that from many member tonight . it have be promise by DEFRA , but we be yet to see a clear mechanism or process for how it will work , and we receive question on it every single week . as we have also hear from member from all part of the House , farmer be there to produce food — and to look after the environment , of course , but not to the detriment of food production , which be so important right now . mental health have be touch on . the Farming Community Network in Dorset report an ever - increase number of farmer suffer from mental ill health . I have to say that the Poole harbour catchment area , to which I have refer , be not exactly help their mental health . that be not all the Government ' s fault ; I be not necessarily bang on the Government ' s door . world event over which the Government have no control be also put pressure on food production . I certainly understand that , as I be sure do everyone in the House . mental health be a problem in the farming community , and a lot of that be because of the rule , regulation and other thing impose on they , when all they want to do be produce food and look after the countryside . lastly , tuberculosis have be touch on . it be a major problem in the south - west that particularly affect the dairy industry . cull have prove to work . rather than our talk about stop the culling of badger , and introduce other specie , may I suggest that all wild animal have to be cull ? if they be not , their health deteriorate . fox , deer and badger do not have any predator in today ' s world . we do not want to wipe they out ; we simply want they control . it be pure common sense . as I understand it , be the Opposition to win the election — God forbid — they would stop the badger cull . I be interested in whether that be true ; perhaps the shadow Minister can tell we . the british farmer be without doubt the good in the world . I ask the Government to continue to do the good that they can to ensure that rule and regulation be sensible and , above all , to ensure that common sense prevail . have grow up in the countryside , I have great memory of spend my childhood on my friend ' s family farm muck about on tractor and take in all that our great countryside have to offer . I be not sure that his parent have quite such fond memory of what we get up to on the farm back in the day . it have be a real pleasure for I to see he step up , take over the rein of much of that work , and take that farm from strength to strength . it be a real privilege for I to represent so many of Bedfordshire ' s fantastic farmer , but have speak to they , I know that the sad reality be that many of they really need representation in this place at the moment . I have visit farm at the Whitbread estate . the fantastic work be do there on regenerative farming be a real eye - opener for I , but it be deeply frustrating to hear from farmer there about the challenge they have have in access the SFI scheme , as it be to hear that only 12 farm across my constituency be in the scheme ; 20 more start but fail to complete application , weigh down by bureaucracy . that be only those who could apply to begin with . many more be unable even to start application after the Rural Payments Agency bungle remap of their estate . they be bogge down in negotiation finally to get boundary agree , so that they can start access vital funding to support their crucial work . it be a pleasure to visit Clifton Bury farm and see its world - famous shallot field , but it be quite painful to hear about the challenge that the industry face due to increasingly tight margin , and the risk that the ending of access payment pose to the beloved access walk around the farm , which be use by people from across my community throughout covid and beyond it . Parish councillor have step up , but without a long - term , accessible scheme support access to our brilliant countryside , landowner may struggle to make such walk viable . it be a pleasure , too , to speak to the people at Browns of Stagsden and see their fantastic livestock farming . I take great joy in purchase my fair share of fantastic good from one of the good farm shop anyone could hope to see . however , it be clear from speak to people there that they face real pressure on their business , whether from high energy cost or the lack of action on rural crime , and those pressure continue to grow . the sad truth be that those be not the only such story ; these issue face farmer and farming community right across my constituency . they have see a real increase in their energy bill , post Ukraine ; the Government fail to deliver home - grow energy , and they be leave expose to the volatile world energy market . the challenge of get on top of rural crime have lead many of my farmer to depend on private security firm for action and follow - up . the sad reality be that that new overhead have be add to their business when they can barely afford it . there be also the brutal reality of a broken funding model for farming . just 1p of the profit associate with much of our produce make its way back to the fantastic farmer who produce they , and who have be look after our brilliant countryside in the process . our farmer deserve well than that . our farmer deserve action . from speak to my farmer , I know that they be desperate for a clear Government commitment to genuinely sustainable domestic food production that deliver not only for the environment , but for all land tenure and all farm business model . they see at first hand how important co - operation with council be if we be to reverse the decline in council farm and ensure accessible route into farming for young people right across our community . Most of all , they be keen for a renew commitment from a Government who will finally put farming and farming community back at the heart of their vision for our economy and our country . I be incredibly proud to be a Labour MP , and to be part of a Labour party that be commit to do just that . I be proud of be part of a Labour party that be commit to finally make use of the great strength of public procurement , and of ensure that 50 % of public money spend on food go to british farmer and support british farming community . I support the Labour party policy that will finally get we domestic energy security . that will protect our farming community from some of the volatility in energy price that they have to endure in recent year . I support a Labour party that will simplify the elm scheme and ensure that we cut through the red tape that hold back my farmer and sometimes stop they access vital funding for the crucial work that they do . those good measure be Labour party measure , but they need not be just that . if press rumour be to be believe , the Government recently develop a bit of a penchant for pinch Labour party policy . I urge they to keep go . Labour Front - Bench Members have today outline fantastic step that be vital for support our farming community right now . let we not wait for a general election to deliver some of the change that my farmer be cry out for . let we bring forward measure in the die ember of this Parliament . if not , I look forward to campaign with Labour party colleague from right across the country for a national Government who support the interest of the british farming community and deliver a decade of national renewal that our farming community desperately need . it be a great pleasure to speak from the Back Benches in this farming debate , and to welcome the Secretary of State — I have not see he yet in this role — and the great Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) . I come from a farming family ; it be nice to know that we be in such strong hand , and to hear such cross - party support for this key industry . the sector will be grateful to know how strongly it be represent across this House . I do not have an interest to declare , except that as I come from a farming family , I narrowly escape a career in farm management . I work for Greens of Soham and use to be a director of Elsoms Seeds . I also work for the National Farmers Union back when there be a thing call the Ministry of Agriculture , Fisheries and Food , and I use to chair the all - party parliamentary group on science and technology in agriculture . I take this opportunity to thank Minette Batters for her extraordinary leadership of an organisation that be at time not give to agility and clarity . she have bring clarity to the sector . I wish Tom Bradshaw , her successor , all the very good . I think the House know that I be not a great believer that the Brexit referendum would be immediately and easily implementable — I think it would cause some difficulty and problem — but the one thing that I be very excited about be the opportunity to replace the appalling common agricultural policy , and all its mess , bureaucracy and chaos , with a UK farm and agriculture support framework . that remain an exciting opportunity . such a framework would give this great industry — that be what it be — security in the long term . history show that when we give that to farmer , they give we back exactly what we want . we need a long - term , secure policy , that have enough support and flexibility to allow marginal hill farmer to protect the upland and the beautiful countryside that we love ; that support small family holding , whose economic marginality require diversification ; and that support all those other activity that we want to support . in my part of the world , East Anglia , global , world - class , competitive agriculture can lead the way in grow the food that the world need . there be a huge opportunity . I observe that in my 14 year in the House , agriculture have go from not be properly recognise as an industry , and almost be see by the Government as an activity of park keeping , to be , after the pandemic and Ukraine , a hugely important strategic sector that be key to food security and an opportunity for we globally . we need to double world food production by 2050 on the same land area , with half as much water and energy . that be a global grand challenge . this country be a powerhouse in agricultural science , research and technology , and can help make that possible . the opportunity be for we to set out a framework that unlock the genius of our agricultural sector , so that we can show the world how it be do . if we get that right , we will invigorate the rural economy . of course , Brexit be eight year ago . I pay tribute to the Government ' s various commitment : the £ 2 . 4 billion ringfence commitment , the sustainable farming incentive , countryside stewardship , the food innovation programme , the food strategy , the animal health and welfare pathway , ELMS , and the Prime Minister ' s commitment at the recent NFU conference . the real key be ensure that the farming community feel and see long - term , clear , sustainable support . I want to highlight one or two thing that the farmer of Mid Norfolk say we have still to get right . first , they highlight the importance of a really reliable , long - term policy framework for the commercial sector , as well as an environmental framework for skill and for innovation . for 40 year after the war , the sector know what we want it to do . it need to know that we know what we want it to do , and that we will not change our mind every five , three or two year . secondly , agriculture must be recognise as a strategic industry that be key to our balance of payment , food security and ability to connect to those huge global market . public support figure show that the public be with we now — they be not 20 or 30 year ago ; they do not think of it as a great industry that they want to support , but they do now . thirdly , we must understand that farmer be , first and foremost , mainly small business . they be not sophisticated ; generally , they be not people with degree or mba in business management . they be people who love what they do . we need to give they a framework that work for they as small business . Farming be a very unusual business , which invest most of its cost up front in the hopeful pursuit of revenue and profit downstream . not many business do that . we need to understand that reality , as that be partly why farm need such security . a number of colleague have talk about food security . we be not destine only to grow the root crop , potato and traditional crop here , and to import the salad crop . incredible innovation in vertical farming mean that we be now able to produce salad crop in this country . I have visit vertical farm — we have a great one in Norfolk at Fischer Farms . they use a fraction of the land area , with a fraction of the energy and chemical use in traditional farming . there be no reason why that food security target could not be a lot high . of course we all want environmental agriculture . I pay tribute to Kevin Bowes , the Breckland farmer , the Upper Wensum farmer group and the farmer at Wendling Beck . farmer in Mid Norfolk be shape good practice for agri - environment scheme . I recently visit a flagship project with Natural England : 20 or 30 people have come up from London , have buy their wellie at the garage ; and Tony Juniper be preach rewilding . I go to look at some land that , as a farmer ' s boy , I would think you could probably get two hectare or an acre out of — and the fine mind in the land be try to work out how to get nothing out of it , at a time when we really need food production . I be worried that the e in DEFRA sometimes triumph over the F , the r and the a . food need to be right back at the heart of the Department ; I know that the Secretary of State and the Minister be commit to that . I make the point about the environment because we all know that , traditionally , agriculture have be a very high emit industry . we need to show the world how to move to a low - emission agricultural sector . we be well positioned to do that , not least in agricultural genetic and breeding science at the Norwich Research Park , where we be pioneer drought - resistant crop that do not need highly carbon - intensive chemical , and disease - resistant and drought - resistant crop for the rest of the world . in our chase for net zero , the left hand and the right hand need to be co - ordinated . we be not do anything for net zero if we be disrupt farming in East Anglia with endless solar farm , cable and pylon . there be a simple thing that the Department can do , which I have ask it to do again and again : not put solar farm on 3b land . we put they on warehouse or inferior land , but not on good agricultural land in Lincolnshire and Norfolk . I agree . if we be to lead the world in net zero agriculture , it be all about metric and datum . it be about pick up a pint of milk , a potato or a loaf of bread and know its environmental footprint . with that , we can start to give the sector incentive and reward for drive down the environmental footprint . without it , we be condemn to follow environmental policy that be emotional and not connect to proper science and research . if we get that right , the UK could be a leader in set those environmental metric . that bring I to water quality . I commend the fact that UK agriculture have achieve a 75 % reduction in pollution — that be very right . in our part of the world , the nutrient neutrality muddle have be a serious blow to farmer who be take water quality seriously by reduce pig effluent and try to get the balance right . clunky , bureaucratic , big scheme in Whitehall that be not think through properly be cause chaos in our part of the world in both agriculture and housing . that bring I to flooding , on which I agree with the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) — it be good to hear colleague from all corner of this House get the problem . large part of Mid Norfolk be currently under water . that be not good for agricultural productivity . farm be hold water , for which they receive no support . there have be a lot of talk recently of " from the river to the sea . " the basic of drainage be that river be there to drain water off the land into the sea , and we could do with the Environment Agency put dredging and the clearing of river at the top of the priority list to ensure that we get the water off the land properly . my hon . friend be make a powerful point . that issue be not just limit to Norfolk . the Secretary of State will know , be a Fylde lad , that it be affect my farmer . we be cry out for water drain off land and let farmer farm . I could not agree more . the Secretary of State , whose constituency be North East Cambridgeshire , have live the reality of get water off the land as much as anybody . that bring I to labour shortage . we have have real problem in the last few year : post Brexit , post pandemic and with the minimum wage , farmer be struggle . when a horticultural grower of the calibre of Andy Allen have to plough his prime english asparagus crop back into the land because he can not find anyone to cut it , we be in real trouble . some of our agricultural college be fantastic — I think I still have a place at Harper Adams if this career do not work out — but I worry that Easton College in Mid Norfolk be not properly anticipate the future need of a high technology agricultural industry . we need to nurture the skill of tomorrow . our young farmer get it , but we need to give they the course . I echo the comment that a number of member have make about the difference between landowner and farmer . they be not the same thing . many farmer I see be contract farmer — they be work 24 / 7 , cover huge amount of land and operate with high and high cost . the environmental payment tend to go to the landowner . we need to look after the farmer : the people who be develop those skill and inspire the next generation to come into this great industry . if we end up with an industry where the hedge fund own all the land and no one be able to farm it , we will have do ourselves no favour . quite a lot of those pressure explain why we have such a problem with mental health in agriculture . one farmer a week be take their life . we need to think about what be drive that . I applaud the Government ' s work on production standard . we have a great opportunity in free trade deal to set the high standard and to show the world how the UK produce more with less . I would offer a zero tariff only to those who be use the world ' s very good technology for zero - emission agriculture , and create a market for the exporting of our net zero technology . sustainable intensification — deliver more with less — be not just a strapline . the world desperately need we to help deliver that . in our sector we have huge strength : the John Innes Centre at the Norwich Research Park , the Sainsbury Laboratory in Aberystwyth , and at Roslin and Wellesbourne . we be a global powerhouse in science research . we spend about half a billion a year on it , but it do not yet feel like the agricultural sector be underpin by a half a billion of research . I know that the Secretary of State be think hard about how that science and research be well pull through . that bring I to agritech — a huge global sector . I be proud to set up our first agritech industrial strategy , the catalyst fund and the centre with my noble Friend Lord Willetts . we have some amazing agritech company , but the key be to adopt the technology they be produce . I pay tribute to company such as Tropic Biosciences and to the work go on at Rothamsted . but when a company like the Small Robot Company develop brilliant technology but can not find a market here to use it , I think that tell we as policymaker that we have to create a market in which those technology be commercially viable and adoptable — otherwise we will end up incubate the rest of the world ' s agritech sector and not actually deploy the technology here . I will close by mention gene editing , which be a huge strength here in the UK — not just in disease resistance and drought - resistant crop , and shift from chemical to biological control system , but in nutraceutical , functional food and novel food . we could lead the world in a whole new sector of agriculture , but that regulatory leadership be key . the opportunity that people vote for eight year ago be still there . it be be bear slowly and there have be many disruption , but it be exciting . if we get this right , we could trigger and be the crucible of a new agricultural revolution in which we show the world how to deliver high - quality , safe , highly productive , low - input agriculture base on innovation with science , datum and metric . the UK could export that around the world . the alternative be that we create a jungle of well - intend green tape that get in the way of a fundamentally commercial sector lead we into that new dawn . I know that DEFRA minister understand that . my job be to speak for the people of Mid Norfolk , and to ensure that we in this House show that we get it and that we be there for a new generation , who want to do the right thing for this country and for the globe . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) . I recommend that he take his place at Harper Adams University ; as a former student , I know how good it be . I be proud to represent a beautiful rural constituency in Somerset , which have a strong tradition of family - run farm . indeed , Thomas Hardy call the blackmore vale , part of which be in my constituency , the " vale of the little dairy " . the farm be manage by successive generation of family , include my own family ' s farm . farmer be the lifeblood of rural community . they be the custodian of our beautiful countryside . they care about the environment and work hard day in , day out to produce food for our table . yet there be a litany of way in which the Government have ignore and neglect farmer for far too long . the Prime Minister recently say that he have get the " back " of farmer , but the farmer I speak to tell I that the Government have turn their back on they . the potential Brexit benefit , the promise " public money for public good " environmental land management scheme , have be horribly botch and delay , leave many farmer on the brink . some do not know if they will be able to survive the next 12 month . if they be force to leave the industry , they will join the 110 , 000 farm that have be lose to the industry since 1990 . as my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) mention , only one in eight farmer be sign up to the sustainable farming incentive , because there be no incentive to switch . there be little flexibility , mean many be stick on low payment rate . I be not alone in my concern that the SFI may discourage food production over environmental scheme . one farmer in my constituency suggest that they will need to farm nearly double the area they normally farm to achieve the same output alongside meet their target under the SFI . farmer be worried that their central task of produce food be no long the Government ' s central concern . farmer want to put food on our table . if they can not , we will be less food secure and we will need to import more food . I welcome measure to improve our environmental standard , but disincentivise food production will just shift environmental problem . I agree with the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) : our farmer be certainly not revolt — but they be revolt against this woeful Conservative Government . when we Liberal Democrats say we get it , we mean it . three rural by - election result in as many year prove it be the Liberal Democrats that farmer trust to back british farming . farmer have tell we they need three thing : proper funding , workforce planning and the renegotiation of recent trade deal . only the Liberal Democrats have a real plan to support farmer and rural community , and that start with a £ 1 billion boost to the farming budget so farm can thrive . we need small and medium - sized farm to be give the support they need to boost domestic food production and conserve our environment : thing they want to do , but often do not have the time , manpower or budget to do . the recent announcement of £ 220 million of funding seem fairly similar to the £ 227 million the Government have underspent in the past two year ' farming budget . it will not go anywhere near to address the crisis that farmer be face . farm desperately need worker , yet the seasonal worker visa scheme allow farm to recruit just 45 , 000 worker from abroad . accord to the NFU , farmer say they need nearly double that — around 70 , 000 worker . we can not leave our farmer and their crop to languish when we can act to solve the situation . lastly , we must urgently renegotiate the free trade agreement that the Government have use to shackle our farmer , disproportionately punish they for hold some of the very high standard in the world . the free trade agreement threaten to undercut and undermine our farmer even far , with cheap food hit the supermarket shelf produce to low welfare standard . the Farming Community Network run a survey of over 500 farmer at last year ' s LAMMA show , ask they what they be most proud of in their work . they answer : high standard of animal welfare , sustainability , and the strong sense of community in farming . yet the trade deal threaten that . I once again call for they to be renegotiate , with proper parliamentary scrutiny of each one . I spend much of my time out on farm . during recess week , I visit farm around Wincanton and Castle Cary in my constituency . hon . member may know that our recent recess week be during Mind your Head Week , run by the Farm Safety Foundation , which raise mental health awareness among farmer . the Government announce a £ 500 , 000 boost for charity work on farmer ' mental health . I have write to the Department to request more detail of that funding , which be absent from the recent announcement . I look forward to a write response , but I wonder if the Minister might share those detail with the House this evening . I be very pleased to hear he be at a roundtable event this afternoon to discuss just that . I have speak with charity in this field , such as the Farm Safety Foundation , the Farming Community Network and the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution . they agree that the funding be welcome . the Farm Safety Foundation tell I that it might reach 2 , 500 agricultural student a year if the new funding be give and maintain , but it need comprehensive action from DEFRA and it need to be invite to play a role in shape the policy . we need to fund farmer properly and fund support service , so farmer and the people who interact with they be equip with the knowledge they need to intervene early . we need clear , simple and target communication from DEFRA that recognise the pressure on farmer ' time . I want to see a style guide for DEFRA , similar to the one use by the NHS , to ensure that all user can understand the information clearly . it be unacceptable that DEFRA have be ask charity to simplify and rewrite its communication for it . finally , we need a long - term plan for british farming that safeguard our farmer , safeguard our food production and safeguard our environment . the financial pressure and bureaucracy that farmer face need to be ease , allow they to focus on their core business of farming . instead , the Government continue to undermine farmer who be at risk of lose their livelihood . our farmer and rural community have be let down and take for grant by the Conservatives for too long . food security , environmental sustainability and rural economic prosperity be goal that farmer and the Government should share , but the Government simply do not care or just do not get it . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) . it be 40 year ago , at just about this moment , that I ask a gorgeous farmer ' s daughter from the Isles of Scilly if she would go out on a date with I . she say yes , and a couple of year later we be married , so for 40 year this very night I have be connect to the farming community . it have be an incredible time and I be incredibly grateful to she for stick with I through all that time . member of my wide family be still farm on the Isles of Scilly and many of they work in agriculture in Cornwall . some member of the family even farm in that strange place call Devon . over that time , they have give I a real insight into farming , the life of farmer and the challenge they face . in Cornwall , we be bless to have some of the very good farm and farmer that this country have to offer . when we start name farmer , there be always a risk that we will upset those we do not name , but I have have the privilege of spend time on dairy farm with Andrew Brewer in Fraddon and with Martin and Bridget Whell in Golant , get up at 5 am and experience what it be like to milk cow with they . I have visit James Kittow the grazier at Kilhallon just outside St Blazey , who not only rear his own cattle but see the whole process through , butcher they himself and sell they to many hotel and restaurant . I have visit St Ewe , which produce some of the fine egg in the country , and Will and Kate Martin at Treway farm , who specialise in free - range turkey for Christmas — and very good they be too . tomorrow , we shall be host a Taste of Cornwall here in Parliament to celebrate St Piran ' s day . everyone be welcome to come to the Jubilee Room tomorrow afternoon and sample the produce of some of the people I have just mention , and I encourage they to do so . it have trouble I for many year that we seem to have set up a dichotomy between farmer and the environment , as though they be somehow at odd with each other . in my experience , farmer understand the need to protect our environment more than anyone else , because their livelihood depend on it more than anyone else ' s . they want to enhance the natural environment , and not just so that they can continue to be productive themselves . many of those run family farm want to pass on a viable business to their child and grandchild , and if they destroy the environment in the meantime , they will not have a productive farm to pass on . we need to kill the idea that farmer be the enemy of environmental protection . they really be not , and we need to work with they because , as I have say , they understand the need to protect the environment well than any of we . all the farmer I have speak to have broadly welcome the scheme that the Government have introduce to replace the common agricultural policy , such as the sustainable farming incentive and the environmental goal that it seek to introduce . however , whatever scheme we introduce , we must not lose sight of the fact that the main focus must be on food production . sometimes I think we have get that balance wrong , and many of the farmer I speak to feel that at time the focus have shift too much from food production to the environment . the problem with much government policy be that thing be do for all the right reason but produce unintended consequence . in Cornwall in particular , landowner be take land back from tenant because they make more money by take it out of production and produce non - food item on it than by continue to let their farm . the Government have say that they be look and listen carefully to ensure that they have get the policy right , but I suggest to the Minister that we should also be careful not to produce outcome that we do not intend . we must never forget that every farm be a business . it be a lifestyle , and it might even be describe as a calling , but at its heart it be a business whose owner simply want to produce food at a price that enable they to make money . Most farmer I know do not want to be incredibly wealthy ; they just want to make enough money to live on , and to run their farm well . we need to be honest with the british public , and say that all the support that we give to farmer do not mean we be subsidise they . what we be do be subsidise food , and subsidise household . it could be say on occasion that we be subsidise supermarket . Most farmer I speak to would rather be able to sell their produce at a price that give they a profit than be catch up in a complex world of subsidy , grant and continual application . I do not foresee a day any time soon when we will be able to get away from that , but I would love to see the day when we can move away from the continual subsidy and live in a world where farmer be able simply to make an honest profit and sell their produce at a price that reflect the cost that they incur in its production . I know that other have touch on this , but one of the big fear that my local beef and dairy farmer have at the moment be bovine tuberculosis . we have do very well , in Cornwall as in other part of the south - west , in drive down case through the combination of measure that the Government have introduce , but at the heart of that have be the badger cull . farmer be worried that we will move away from that without replace it with measure that will be equally effective in drive down badger number . one of their great fear be the prospect that , one day , a Labour Government will abandon the cull without an effective replacement , and the example we have hear of what be happen in Wales reinforce that fear . I ask the Minister to reassure farmer that this Government will continue an effective policy of control TB , and will not simply abandon the cull for ideological reason until we be entirely confident that we have other measure , such as vaccine , to keep on top of this terrible disease . visit farm that have experience TB have bring this home to I . it be not just an economic tragedy for the farmer who have to see their herd destroy ; it take a huge emotional toll as well . that create a world of uncertainty , and many of they be struggle with that now . farmer have ask I to raise the matter of high - frequency bovine electronic id . I know that there have be a consultation on that , but I understand that the Government have not yet respond . farmer want we to urge the Government to introduce high - frequency rather than low - frequency id , because that would make their life much easy , save they both time and money . a response from the Government as soon as possible would be greatly welcome . I be pleased that the Government be actively encourage people to buy more locally . Cornwall have do very well in that regard . during the pandemic , people become much more aware of supply chain and the source of their food . some great farm shop have open throughout Cornwall . it be important for people to have that connection , especially in rural area , but those in many urban area would also do well to understand where their food come from . the more local it be , the well . this have also be mention , but I wholeheartedly support well labelling , not only to help people to identify the source of their food but to make clear its environmental impact or the food mile involve . I hear some strange argument , such as the suggestion that eat an avocado from Madagascar be somehow well than eat a steak from the farm down the road . to my mind , that be complete nonsense . if we actually label food to make people realise how far it have travel and the real impact before it arrive on their plate , maybe people would make informed choice and choose to buy and consume locally source food . before I wind up , I want to put in a final word for the horticulture sector . my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) make the point that , in Cornwall , it be not just about livestock ; we also have a very important horticulture sector , which we need to continue to support . I be delighted when the Government eventually agree to include horticulture and , indeed , flower picker in the seasonal agricultural worker scheme . it be so important that we continue to do that and to make sure that the sector have the manpower it need to bring in crop as they become ready . as other colleague have mention , this sector have a great future in the UK . the Eden Project recently open some big greenhouse that be heat from its on - site geothermal plant , and it be now look to grow virtually all the vegetable and salad produce for its restaurant . there be a great opportunity for more of this type of thing across the UK , so that we become more self - sufficient in home - grow food and do not need to import quite so much . I be delighted that we have be able to have this debate today and that I have be able to share a few thought . I believe passionately that this Government and the conservative party be on the side of farmer . we get what farmer need . we may not have get absolutely everything right over the last few year , but I believe we have be try to do the right thing . I be confident that we will continue to back farmer and to provide they with the policy and support they need to ensure that they can go on be productive and feed our country . it be indeed a pleasure to speak in this debate . I declare an interest as a farmer and landowner in Strangford , and as a member of the Ulster Farmers Union , which be the sister of the National Farmers Union . I will put out an advertisement , if I may . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for egg , pig and poultry — there be no well appg to chair . I invite all hon . member to come along to one of our event at 8 . 30 be on Wednesday 20 March , where they will hear more about egg , pig and poultry . member will be able to do all the thing they have say here that they will do and make sure that we can deliver for our farmer . it be a pleasure to see the Minister , the hon . member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , in his place , and I look forward to his contribution . in her introduction , the hon . member for Brecon and Radnorshire ( Fay Jones ) do a fine job at tell we where we be and what we have to do . my family have own our farm since 1979 . unfortunately , my father take ill shortly after we buy the farm , so we never really farm it , but our neighbour farm it . he be a dairyman , and he do beef , sheep and arable farming . he look after the farm and maintain it well . my job on a Saturday afternoon be quite simple : I maintain all the gate , all the fence , all the road , all the guttering , and all the roof . it be good to be a handyman . the reason why I be handy be that I live there , but it be always good to have a different activity on a Saturday afternoon . farming should be of great importance for every person , because without the farmer , everybody go hungry . the agrifood industry as a whole be under threat , and this House need to use the opportunity afford to we by Brexit . I know that some people be very keen to whip Brexit . I be not one of they , even though we may not have the same Brexit in Northern Ireland as we have in the rest of the United Kingdom , but we want to take advantage of the opportunity . I will speak briefly about the important agrifood sector in my constituency . Lakeland Dairies employ 270 - odd people — one of the big employer . lot of farmer feed into Lakeland Dairies with their milk from Mid Down , which be part of the area I represent . give the constituency change that will take place before the next general election , even more of Mid Down will come into my constituency . Mash Direct and Willowbrook Foods operate in the arable food sector and the vegetable food sector , too . between they , those three company employ almost 1 , 500 people , include farmer and dairyman , so one can quickly understand why the sector be important . we also have a very active and productive lamb sector in Mid Down , North Down and Strangford . there be also a very large pig unit , with 1 , 000 sow , down at Portaferry — probably the only one leave . that give a flavour of what happen in Strangford . I want to make a point just for the record , because it be factually correct , about the Comber potato , which be recognise by the EU . I push that matter with the EU some time ago . early Comber potato be call Comber Earlies , and there be really no potato in the world like a Comber early . the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) refer to what his constituency do , and I be go to do the very same for mine , because I can tell you it will look really good next week in the Newtownards Chronicle — my local paper . it be important to do this because I remember all the good thing that the farming community have do in Strangford . the rise in energy cost have put many a farmer or producer in almost dire strait . it be past time that the drop in oil and gas price be pass to the consumer and those who need it the most . I wish to focus on one issue in particular , and it be a request on which I will seek the assistance of the Minister . the Ulster Farmers Union have express concern that the ammonia proposal could delay progression and reduce farm income far . I be not sure whether anybody else have speak on this , but I be go to talk about it right now if I may . research conduct by KPMG on the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs ' propose ammonia restriction , set out in the call for evidence issue during the autumn in Northern Ireland , show that the impact of unsuccessful planning application for on - farm development could hamper effort to reduce emission and could reduce farm family income between 7 % and as much as 38 % . that be quite a large factor , and it show the impact of the ammonia issue in Northern Ireland . I know that this be not the Minister ' s responsibility directly because we have a work Assembly again with a Minister in place , but I always seek the help of Ministers . they help we so that we can help they , and I believe that this be an issue that we really need to focus on together . it have the potential to affect agriculture ' s primary economic output , which could fall by as much as £ 35 million . Northern Ireland export almost 80 % of its produce , so this be really important for we from an export point of view . it come to the UK mainland and go down south to the Republic of Ireland , as well as across to Europe . indeed Lakeland Dairies ' milk powder product go across the whole world . it be one of the big export company . I have have opportunity to promote Lakeland Dairies in this Chamber to ensure that minister be aware of the company . I have have various meeting with Ministers on this over the year . go back to the issue of ammonia , the Ulster Farmers Union president David Brown have say : " we have now submit KPMG ' s finding to DAERA , and the report clearly show that ammonia restriction in planning could delay progression in reduce emission and have severe consequence for the future of farming in Northern Ireland . Ammonia be a very complex issue and our farmer be very aware of this , but these proposal have the potential to do the opposite of what be intend . " there be good intention , but the good intention could be detrimental so I would very much value the Minister ' s input , alongside that of the DAERA Minister in Northern Ireland , to see how we can well work together . a worrying aspect of this be that the report be commission before DAERA and the Northern Ireland Environment Agency announce their move in December to go beyond what be set out in the call for evidence paper . sometimes it be good to get all the fact in the paper before we make decision , and I think that on this one , DAERA and the Northern Ireland Environment Agency jump the gun just that wee bit too quick . the report therefore do not take account of the more extreme position that have be adopt in recent week . the report show that these harsh ammonia rule will mean that few planning application will be successful , prevent hundred of farmer in Northern Ireland from be able to develop and modernise sustainably so that they can reduce emission far . the farmer want to do that . the hon . member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) clearly outline the importance of farmer and what they want to do , but they want to commit themselves to the environmental issue as well . he be absolutely right , but there have to be some realism on how that be do . it can not be at the behest of all the farmer . it can not be to the detriment of we in Northern Ireland . many farmer have be actively embrace practical mitigation measure , such as low - emission slurry - spread equipment , feed formulation and fertiliser type , but with all these thing that a farmer do , there be so much bureaucracy and paperwork . however , we be concerned that necessary investment in improved agri - housing and manure management facility be likely to be significantly curtail . this be a really big issue for we in Northern Ireland , and it be a big issue for the Ulster Farmers Union . unsuccessful planning application can lead to a fall in farm infrastructure investment of between 20 % and 25 % , which be impossible to comprehend , and it have consequence for the wide economy . agricultural construction be worth between £ 60 million and £ 70 million in 2022 , and it be worth even more today . without investment in farm infrastructure , farmer could struggle to introduce ammonia mitigation measure such as improved scraper , slat mat in livestock shed and cover for the slurry pit . these critical improvement be need to reduce ammonia emission from agriculture , and their absence delay progress towards our target . farmer want to help we meet those target , but they need some realism in how it be do . it be important that we get it right . infrastructure improvement be also vital to improve animal health and welfare , which support the production of high - quality food for our grow population — that be what we do well in Northern Ireland . if a farm family ' s planning application be reject , not only do it derail their morale in reduce ammonia emission but there will be significant cost to the business . farm income could drop by 21 % for dairy farmer , include my neighbour , by 30 % for beef farmer and by 38 % for pig farmer . there will be massive reduction if it be not address , so we seek the assistance of Ministers both here and in Northern Ireland . such reduction would mean that farm become inefficient , make it impossible for they to remain competitive , which will impact Northern Ireland ' s ability to produce food locally . every right hon . and hon . Member have speak about farmer produce more food . if we produce all the food we could in the United Kingdom , we would not have to import anything . that would not be entirely realistic , of course , but the fact be that we can do more and we can do well . we would not be honest if we do not talk about those reduction whenever we talk about build our agrifood business . our rural economy , our community and our consumer be severely affect , too . the Ulster Farmers Union have say that farmer want to reduce their emission , but the KPMG report clearly show that these proposal have more potential to stop positive on - farm development than to benefit the environment — that be the point make by the hon . member for St Austell and Newquay . there be a balanced way forward that allow farmer to develop and deliver ammonia reduction while ensure that farm family can maintain a viable business as food producer . I have be anxious to understand how co - operation across this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can be achieve . I ask the Minister to make contact with the devolved Assemblies in Scotland , Wales and especially Northern Ireland to ensure that our target do not eliminate our food - produce farm , which be where we seem to be head . time be move fast , so I conclude by say that there be work to be do on the seasonal worker scheme , which everyone have mention . the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) say that there be 70 , 000 seasonal worker , and we in Northern Ireland will need some help too . over the year , with Home Office assistance , we have be instrumental in bring over seasonal worker from Ukraine , Estonia , Latvia and Poland . lot of people have integrate into my Strangford constituency , and 40 % of the workforce at Mash Direct and Willowbrook Foods — the two example I mention at the beginning of my speech — be from Europe . it be important that such scheme and employment practice be in place . the message from this House must be that we understand the pressure and will work to alleviate they . for the farming community across this United Kingdom , the plough will go straighter know that we will reap the benefit of the seed that we sow in this debate . as I say to the Under - Secretary of State for Wales , the hon . member for Brecon and Radnorshire , I believe in my heart that there be so much that we can do well together . I be very proud to be british by choice , by birth and by nature because it be the good thing for we . I call the Opposition Front Bencher . I thank colleague for a full , excellent and thoughtful debate . I be delighted to hear contribution from new , young , labour rural voice : my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) speak well about some of the limitation of the SFI , and raise the issue of rural crime ; and my hon . friend the Member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) talk knowledgably about flooding issue . although he be not in his place , we also hear from someone who be eternally youthful but not so new , my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) , who also touch on SFI issue . [ interruption . ] oh , he be here , just in time . he also discuss green skill and biodiversity . we also hear thoughtful contribution from two former Secretaries of State , which I listen to closely , and an excellent introduction from the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) . I think there be a theme run through some of the contribution from Conservative Members , which be that not all be entirely well with Government policy . they make sensible observation about how long we have be wait for the response to the Shropshire review , and about the demise of the horticultural strategy . a range of other criticism be make , which I hope the Government will take on board . I also very much enjoy the characteristically optimistic contribution from the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) . I be not that far from his constituency last week , when , at the invitation of Labour ' s excellent Keir Cozens , I go to Great Yarmouth to meet a group of farmer . like many other , they have , I suspect , be follow this debate with interest , because their issue and concern be typical of those of many across the country . they want to farm in environmentally sensitive , nature - friendly way , but they run business and they need to make a return — that point be well make by my hon . friend the Member for Selby and Ainsty . that require the right regulatory framework , appropriate support , and help where necessary . frankly , that be not what they be get at the moment . they look at the SFI and rightly warn that the money on offer for grow flower be so tempting that many will take it — we be talk about whole farm . that make no sense , not for food production , the environment or the Exchequer . we need flour as well as flower — that be what need to be sort out , Minister , and quickly . so , too , do the fundamental flaw in the Government ' s approach to the agricultural transition . they be spend large amount of our money without know what they be get for it . they can not say they be not warn , but they push ahead regardless . halfway through the transition , the Government do not know whether their measure have improve the environment , or whether any progress be be make on reduce emission . in addition , as the Farmers Guardian headline recently put it , we have " Farm Output in free fall " . those Norfolk farmer be frustrate by a whole range of Government agency , and we have hear reference to some of the problem there from Conservative Members . whether it be muddle over response to flooding or endless frustration with local planning , these be issue that Labour have identify , and that be central to our plan to keep Britain farming . farming be a hard business , and time be difficult . the weather be more challenging than ever , with sheet of water sit on so many field across the country . too many farmer have have to endure the distress of witness the destruction of their crop or livestock due to those flood or , in some case , the persistent shortage of workforce and labour . although we be all relieved that the threat from avian flu have recede to some extent this year , I think we all know that have we face bluetongue , which will continue to be a problem , or african swine fever at the same time , the already very stretch system that the Government have in place would almost certainly have buckle . as member have say , we still have a supply chain contract system that we all know do not work for too many farmer . stakeholder tell I that thing be actually get bad . I be in Hexham at the northern farming conference last year , where a point be strongly make that labour ' s Joe Morris recently reinforce to I : we have too many buyer take too long to consider cost price increase request , take too long to pay invoice , fail to honour their original order and reject perfectly good produce because it do not quite fit some aesthetic criterion . that lead to appal waste ; one producer tell I that he have to throw away 50 % of the lettuce he grow . that be terrible for the environment , an insult to farmer , and deeply problematic when work people all over the country be struggle in a cost of live crisis to get a meal on the table . More than a quarter of all the food grow in the UK be never eat , and this waste harvest account for between 6 % and 7 % of total UK greenhouse gas emission . that waste have be make bad by severe and persistent labour shortage , which the Government have be too slow to address . it be therefore no great surprise that UK farmer be produce less and less of our food . as my hon . friend the Member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) say , over 6 , 000 agricultural business have close down since 2017 . at the same time , as we have hear repeatedly , the Government have let farmer down on trade deal , open the door to food produce to low standard . give all that , it be hardly surprising that a severe toll have be take on famer ' mental health . a Labour Government will resolutely back british farmer , reduce our reliance on insecure import , support high - quality , local produce for consumer , and end the shameful new reality we have come to almost accept : that there will be gap on supermarket shelf . for Labour , food security be national security , and that start with our new deal for farmer . labour will seek a veterinary agreement with the European Union that will get british food export move again and ensure standard be safeguard . we will buy , make and sell more homegrown , sustainable , nutritious food . we will support farmer across the country through public procurement , and use the Government ' s purchase power to ensure that at least half of all food in our hospital and prison be locally produce or certify to high environmental production standard . we will deliver price stability for farmer by establish GB Energy , a new publicly own energy company that will direct public and private investment to harness clean , homegrown wind , wave , solar and nuclear power . we will have energy independence , with 100 % clean energy by 2030 . that mean cheap energy for farmer and less volatility , which be vital to long - term business . the Government seem to have take forever to respond to Baroness Rock ' s report on the tenanted sector , but we will inject a new urgency into that , as we will into find way to help new entrant into farming , because those young people be the future of the sector . we will support research and innovation , so that we can make productivity gain that have be elusive for too long in many part of the industry . we be committed to make the environmental land management scheme work . frankly , the Government simply do not have a strategic approach to ELMS , or to the crucial challenge of balance produce nutritious food , protect nature , mitigate climate change and uphold animal welfare standard . they be fail on all these important front . the Government ' s failure to deliver on their environmental target mean that their promise to protect at least 30 % of our land , water and ocean by 2030 be in serious doubt . the Climate Change Committee ' s late report make grim reading for the Government . emission from agriculture be go in completely the wrong direction ; they actually rise last year . the Government have fail in their task of establish a post - brexit vision and framework for farming in this country . it will fall to Labour to pick up that mantle and create the land - use framework need to meet the multiple demand make on our land in a more strategic way — to deliver stability that optimise the achievement of our social , economic and environmental objective , and to enshrine food security as a key public good , back british farmer while restore nature and protect the environment for future generation . that be the future for british farming , and it be a future with Labour . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to the debate . I particularly thank the Under - Secretary of State for Wales , my hon . friend the Member for Brecon and Radnorshire ( Fay Jones ) , for open the debate . why ? because this Government strongly believe in the importance of our Union and the industry that sustain it , include our mighty food and farming industry . I have be involve in the agricultural sector all my life , since , aged two or three , I be place in my pram , position carefully in the milk parlour , down in the pit , to watch Dad milk our Holstein and friesian herd . I have drive the combine during many harvest on our family farm , and be even lamb yow in Yorkshire just yesterday . I know the importance of our agricultural sector , especially to the people who work in it . on that note , it be an honour to host this morning in Parliament the next crop of Nuffield farming scholar , as they set out on their journey to undertake valuable research to drive productivity , innovation and growth in a sector that we all love . it be also brilliant to host a further group of farmer in Parliament this morning from God ' s own county — our future farmer of Yorkshire . I put on record a tribute to Minette Batters for lead the NFU as president for many year . I wish Tom Bradshaw , a fellow Nuffield farming scholar , the good of luck as he take on the presidency . we have hear many excellent speech from colleague from right across the House . it be clear that farming be complex ; pressure be be place on the sector from all side , include from the sky above . farmer have to feed a grow nation , address environmental consideration and balance public will , expectation and perception of the industry . that be why , from a Government perspective , it be vital that policy work and drive forward productivity , innovation and efficiency in the sector . the Government be commit to continue to produce at least 60 % of the food that we eat in the UK , and have ambition to produce more food domestically . we will continue action where it matter , to support farming business , so that they grow and thrive . farming contribute a staggering £ 127 billion to the economy , and we want to enhance and secure nature while ensure food production . we have a key focus on drive productivity in the sector , as food security must always be at the forefront of our mind . as have be mention , we recognise that it be vital to balance the priority of protect food security , restore biodiversity and tackle climate change , while , of course , ensure that farming be profitable and productive , so that farming business can thrive , and so that farming continue to attract the very good and the bright . let I turn to some of the point make in the debate . our farming scheme be deliver for farm business of every type and size , unlike the bureaucratic common agricultural policy , under which 50 % of the budget go to the top 10 % of landowner . believe I , have work as a farm business consultant before enter this place , I can say that there be no policy that frustrate I more than the common agricultural policy . it undoubtedly lead to a lack of innovation and stagnation in farming business , and , for tenant , a base level in rent that be unfairly inflate . we have be release from the shackle of the common agricultural policy and be midway through a period of transition . in January this year , we publish the agricultural transition plan update , set out our big upgrade to farming scheme since the UK have have the freedom to design our own policy . as the Secretary of State have set out , we have increase payment rate for the sustainable farming incentive , and the countryside stewardship ' s mid tier , by 10 % on average , and announce a further 50 new action that will be available from the summer . that will give farmer more choice , more freedom and more money in their pocket . the big change to farming in a generation do not happen in a vacuum . farmer have be deal with soar global price for fuel and fertiliser , so the Government have be work hard to get inflation down , from 11 % last year to 4 % now . our transition be not just a move away from the basic payment scheme to the roll - out of environmental land management scheme . we be place our confidence in the scheme work , and that confidence have be bear out partly by the uptake in farmer get involve . almost half of farmer who have get involve in the scheme be progress . we have receive more than 11 , 000 application for SFI alone since last autumn . there be 35 , 000 live countryside stewardship agreement in place across England in January 2024 . that be a 112 % increase since 2020 . upland farmer , as have be mention in this debate , be incredibly important in our new scheme and grant offer . there be something for every type of farm . Hill and upland farmer have be mention , and I want to take the opportunity to highlight the offer for the sector . we have work incredibly hard with our upland farmer to increase payment rate and develop new action on moorland that offer great flexibility . they include new action to support management of upland peat and non - peatland soil for flood and drought resilience . we have also increase payment rate for species - rich grassland action . for example , the payment rate for manage wet peat on moorland have increase to £ 181 per hectare . we have review the payment rate for similar upland and lowland option , and have agree to pay the same rate to everyone . it be important that we be roll out the SFI , countryside stewardship scheme and landscape recovery scheme , but drive productivity , innovation and growth be equally important , which be why we have announce the large ever grant offer for farmer for the next financial year , which be expect to total £ 427 million . that include double the funding for productivity , provide more support for farmer to invest in automation and robotic , and soil installation to build on - farm energy security . many member have welcome the new annual food security index , which will be roll out to capture and present the datum need to monitor level of self - sufficiency , and the Farm to Fork summit will be hold annually . that build on the great work at our last summit , hold in Downing Street , which bring together many key stakeholder from across the industry . many member refer to the announcement of £ 15 million to tackle food waste , which will enable farmer to redistribute surplus food that can not be use commercially at the farm gate . new regulation will be lay before Parliament to ensure fair and transparent contract for dairy farmer , and a review will be launch to improve fairness in the poultry supply chain . in an effort to drive more opportunity , we be expand permit development right to help farming business to diversify should they so wish . that build on the announcement at the Oxford farming conference in January . we have something to offer every type of farmer in England , so they can choose what work well for their business , from the upland to the lowland . as my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) say , that build on the great work that many Secretaries of State , past and present , have do to ensure that the Government not only deliver on our environmental credential but be focus on drive productivity , innovation and growth in food and farming business . many member across the House mention flooding . as the flood Minister , I recognise just how much increase our flood resilience matter to our farming community . farmer be already eligible for support through the flood recovery framework , include a grant of up to £ 2 , 500 as part of the business recovery grant . as I announce from the Dispatch Box early in the year , we have go beyond the measure previously put in place by announce that farmer who have suffer uninsurable damage to their land will be able to apply for grant of up to £ 25 , 000 towards repair and reinstatement cost through the farming recovery fund . we also need to go above and beyond in ensure that we have a proper maintenance programme that work for Environment Agency asset . that will come out of the money we be provide to double the £ 2 . 6 billion to £ 5 . 2 billion , to increase our maintenance provision . I know what a vital role internal drainage board play . they do an excellent job , not only in Lincolnshire but across East Anglia and far afield , as have be mention . I reassure member that all option will be consider . dredging will be consider , as will remove the vegetation that have block our Environment Agency asset for far too long . we need to ensure that we be not only use nature - base solution upstream but focus on our lowland farmer , ensure that the water can be move off their land as quickly as possible . have visit farmer in Lincolnshire , Nottinghamshire , Gloucestershire and East Yorkshire since take up this role , I know how important this issue be to all of they . More trust be vital . as have be mention , we need to ensure that farmer feel that the Government be onside regard mental health provision . work in a farming community present significant difficulty , particularly during the winter month , with many farmer work on their own , often in difficult weather condition . there be no doubt that farming be not an easy job , with long hour in remote rural area . in recent year , there have be a grow awareness of the importance of farm mental health and wellbeing . we provide support through the farming resilience fund , which have benefit over 19 , 000 farmer to date , but we know that there be more work to do . that be why the Prime Minister announce at the NFU conference that we be make up to half a million pound available to deliver project that specifically support mental health provision within our farming sector . that build on the work be do by the Farming Minister , who attend a farm roundtable early today with key stakeholder from across the charitable sector . I want to give a special thank to all those involve in ensure that our farming community benefit from the Government support that we be roll out . many Members mention trade . we have expand our global network of agrifood attach é s to 11 role in our top export market , and five more have be recruit and will be start in post later this year . they include attach é s in Europe for the first time , and we be strengthen our engagement in other country to boost trade , resolve barrier that UK export face and provide market insight to help business capitalise on the high demand for UK export . we be also deliver the export package that the Prime Minister announce at the UK Farm to Fork summit last May , include by implement the dairy export programme , which will help business grasp new opportunity around the world . we have be clear that agriculture will be at the forefront of any trade deal that we negotiate . we reserve the right to pause negotiation with any country if the progress we want be not be make , as we do with Canada recently . several hon . member speak about food labelling — my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) do so eloquently . we plan to launch a consultation on improve food labelling to tackle the unfairness create by unclear labelling and to protect farmer and consumer . the increase transparency will help shopper make informed choice , and will back british farmer produce food to world - lead standard of taste , quality and animal welfare . the consultation will include proposal to improve and extend the current mandatory method of production and labelling , include option for production standard , and we will explore how we can well highlight import that do not meet our high UK animal welfare standard . I know bovine TB worry many member and many in our farming community . our bovine TB eradication strategy be work , and have bring about a significant reduction in the disease . progress have be make , and we be now able to move on to the next phase of the long - term eradication strategy , which will include badger vaccination , improved cattle testing and work towards develop a cattle vaccine . DEFRA have increase funding for badger vaccination through a range of activity , but I stress to all member that we will continue to be inform by the science and culling will remain part of our wide toolkit for tackle the disease for as long as necessary . many member , include my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire and the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , speak about small abattoir . small abattoir in England can apply for capital grant through the new £ 4 million fund , which be design to boost the sector . they be an important part of the rural economy that offer a high - value route to market for many native and rare breed , among other . through our small abattoir fund , grant of between £ 2 , 000 and £ 60 , 000 be available at a 40 % intervention rate . our selection be intend to improve productivity , enhance animal health , add value to primary produce and encourage innovation in the sector . I go to Dorset last Thursday and meet more than 120 farmer from the constituency of my hon . friend the Members for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) and for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) , who can not speak in this debate , and I want to assure they that I be concerned about the tool that be be roll out by the Environment Agency , which be be use at Poole harbour . I give both member the reassurance that I give their constituent last Thursday : I want to review that tool . I also assure they that I will work with they , Baroness Rock , who be also at that meeting , and their constituent to ensure that the tool achieve the outcome that we all want . I say to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) that , have visit Northern Ireland , I know that cross - departmental learning can always take place . although the matter of policy be devolve , I can assure he that I be more than happy to engage . skill be incredibly important . I reassure my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) that skill be a top priority for the Government to ensure that we drive innovation within the sector . he will know that we have provide funding to the Institute for Agriculture and Horticulture to help it to create a continue professional development system for farmer . the institute be now live , and many member have sign up . I be conscious that Mr Deputy Speaker encourage we to curtail our speech early , and I appreciate that the Minister be be encourage to wind up , so I be sure that he will write to we on the several question that have be ask , but let I focus on one area : skill . More than 7 million people register through the EU settlement scheme , but not all of they have choose to come back to work in the UK . I want to understand whether we have breach the number of visa that have be set aside . I say that because a lot of effort go into ensure that there be visa so that farmer would have enough labour to work in the sector . have the Government extend the number by the extra 10 , 000 visa that be negotiate , or be we fine with the come up to 45 , 000 that we have reach ? we have not reach that figure yet . I be more than happy to keep that engagement go and to take that away and have a conversation with my right hon . friend . I assure all member that help our farming community as much as possible through all measure be a key priority , include through the roll - out of the scheme that she refer to . finally , the land use framework will be publish in due course . I want to reassure all member that the Secretary of State , alongside his ministerial team , rightly want to give that full consideration to ensure that it work in relation to food security and food productivity , and that it drive innovation in the sector . to that end , we will cross - check it with our energy security policy and all other policy to ensure that food production be at the heart of the Government ' s agenda . Labour say that it want what it be do in Wales to be a blueprint that will be roll out across the rest of the country , but I fear for the agriculture sector if that be the case . this be a period of change and adjustment , and the Government be in listen mode and ready to act to support hard - work farmer right across the United Kingdom . by prioritise a profitable and sustainable food and farming sector , we can keep the nation healthy and happy , support our rural economy and ensure that our mighty farming business continue to thrive long into the future under this Conservative Government . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider farming . Petition - Morecambe and Morgan Offshore Wind Farms project recognise the enormous impact that the plan will have on Fylde ' s ecology , economy and community , I rise to present a petition . I thank the parish of Newton , Clifton , Freckleton , Westby and Wrea Green and the town council of Kirkham and St Annes for ask EnBW , BP and the other organisation behind the Morecambe and Morgan project to reconsider their proposal for transmission asset . resident be understandably concerned by the proposal , give the audible buzz generate by two massive substation , the disruption for local school , the footprint of a single substation be the equivalent of 13 football pitch at a height of 20 metre , and the fact that the 122 metre - wide cable corridor will rip through the heart of rural Fylde . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Fylde in Lancashire , declare that the Morecambe and Morgan project should reconsider their plan for Transmission Asset cabling and propose substation in Fylde ; far declare that the propose plan of the project will disrupt wildlife , community and agricultural land . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to heed the resident ’ concern and work with those lead the project to share all relevant document and study transparently , and seek alternative connection to the National Grid . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002920 ] byer Gill Solar Farm Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) my neighbour and hon . friend , the Member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) , and I be incredibly grateful to be able to bring before the House this debate on the propose Byers Gill solar farm . it stretch across agricultural and arable land between Stockton and Darlington . the propose site neighbour a number of other solar farm site that have already be approve and other that be be bring forward for approval , mean that the cumulative impact on this beautiful rural community will be almost 2 , 500 acre . the plethora of solar farm snake through and encircle some of the most beautiful rural village in the region — and , in fact , the country . village , farm and even a local primary school be merely metre away from some part of those site , but it be not only villager and farmer who will be impact : the area be inhabit by a rich tapestry of wildlife and biodiversity . I have be contact by one resident whose family have farm locally for generation , and who will have the solar farm just foot from her boundary . she share with I the list of specie that regularly visit her plot : badger , fox , hare , deer , pheasant , woodcock , snipe , and grey partridge — which be , of course , a red - list specie . that plot have daily visit from heron , and have see coot , moorhen , geese , swan , various duck , swallow , owl , buzzard , sparrowhawk and bat . a 2 , 500 - acre scar on that countryside will undoubtedly affect those animal , their habitat and their food chain , and this resident be rightly devastate . I thank the hon . member for secure this debate . he be absolutely right to highlight the wildlife impact , but also the loss of good agricultural land . be it not time that the Minister and Government , and any potential developer , understand that good agricultural land should be retain for food production ? that be what we want , not the loss of that land to solar farm . I could not agree more , and I will come back to that point . there be a balance between energy security and food security , and food security be incredibly important to many of the job that we talk about in the previous debate . where now people drive along country road and look on to beautiful rolling field , those view will be replace by mile of 7 - foot - high fence to prevent the movement of deer . resident , many of whom have live in the village and farm the field in that area for generation , have share with my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield and I their huge concern about the impact that a development of this scale will have on their community . they understand the need to improve our energy security and the move to renewable , but the sheer cumulative scale of the solar farm densely pack into this small rural community will change it completely . an area characterise by rurality , nature and agriculture look set to become characterise by industry , panel and battery substation . aside from the aesthetic , the complete change in the character of this rural community , the damage to people ' s quality of life and the huge impact on biodiversity , this decision will also be about balance compete interest and priority . energy security be a huge challenge for our country , but so be food security . ironically , this debate follow one about the challenge that our farmer face . many of they be look at how to improve their financial outlook ; they be be approach by developer , and have to make incredibly difficult decision for themselves and their family . our great british farmer be the steward of our countryside , who care for our natural environment and put food on our plate . we must back they , so that they can carry on do that . we be talk about prime agricultural land . resident and I agree with the word of the Prime Minister : " we must also protect our good agricultural land . on my watch , we will not lose swathe of our good farmland to solar farm . instead , we should be make sure that solar panel be instal on commercial building , on shed and on property . " I hope that the Planning Inspectorate will ensure that a robust and independent grading of this land take place , so that it be give fair consideration , and ultimately protect for generation of farmer to come . at present there be more solar farm pende approval than the national grid could hope to service . let we ensure that we develop solar farm that be proportionate and rightly place . there be further concern about what the scale of this industrialisation will mean for the community . there be huge concern that move permeable , green land into the muddy underbelly of acre of solar panel will have real consequence for country road already suffer from flooding problem . the danger of battery storage system such as those destine for the site be well know and document , and such a battery storage system be put near residential property and in close proximity to a school be deeply worry to resident . many resident have express their concern about the developer JBM fail to undertake adequate consultation ; in fact many would go as far as to say that it have actively stifle it . I have hear from several resident who feel that they have be give no voice in the process . many resident be not afford sight of circulate consultation material ; I understand that just 12 of the 356 affected resident receive they . only 120 planning brochure be provide and , illogically , these be place at a library 9 mile away , inaccessible to many resident . stakeholder meeting be organise , but resident be never inform . a face - to - face consultation be hold in Stockton market place , mile away from the site , and an incorrect location be give to resident . then the representative leave early , so those who do turn up do not get to speak to they . this catalogue of failing be well document and will be make available to the Planning Inspectorate ahead of its decision . I pay tribute to resident from the affected village , and those who have take a role in bring together the Bishopton Villages Action Group , which stand up for local resident . they have show how amazing the power of community can be and what it can achieve . they have show exceptional professionalism . they have muster and use all the expertise in their community , and raise a huge amount of money to oppose these plan . they have produce professional submission at every level , and I hope that the Planning Inspectorate will carefully read the report they have issue on JBM ' s failure to consult in line with its duty under the Planning Act 2008 . I thank the Minister for her time . I hope that today we have allow resident ' concern to be thoroughly air , and I look forward to this proposal , with its cumulative overwhelmingly negative impact on this community , be roundly reject . rise — Order . I have no notice that the hon . Gentleman have ask permission to take part in the debate . do the owner of the debate and the Minister agree that Mr Howell should speak ? indicate assent . indicate assent . I call Paul Howell . 9 . 23 pm I apologise , Mr Deputy Speaker ; you should have have notice . that be an oversight by my office and I . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stockton South ( Matt Vickers ) for highlight the scale of the problem , which be clear from the fact that we be both here speak about this matter . I be sure that if my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) be able to be here , he would contribute , too ; he be another constituency neighbour aware of the concern about this proposal . as have be say , the propose Byers Gill solar farm would cover land between Bishopton and Brafferton in the Sedgefield constituency . I be particularly familiar with the area , as I be marry in Bishopton nearly 39 year ago . the farm would cover over 1 , 200 acre of land , and in the nearby region , there be further proposal from other developer that would increase the land affect to well over 2 , 000 acre . resident have approach my hon . friend the Member for Stockton South and I with significant concern about the scale of the development individually and in aggregate , as well as concern about the " consultation process " that have be follow . to be fair , the proposal be refine after an initial round of consultation , and change be make , reflect some concern . I would like the Minister to be cognisant of the following critical point . consultation must be real . I get into politic because I feel that the local Labour council be pay lip service to consultation ; it be basically just tell people what be go on , instead of engage and try to consult properly , so I be particularly sensitive when I hear concern about poor engagement . after my last meeting with the resident action group , I reach out to the developer to discuss the concern . they have agree to meet , but unfortunately I have to postpone the schedule meeting . I will be catch up with the developer in the next few week , and I hope they will listen to what be go on today and react to the concern . after all , it be not what the developer say to I that matter ; it be what they say to my constituent and the people affect at the sharp end . my resident ' feedback concern I massively , and I will be raise it again when I meet the developer . although communication always require two party to engage — sometimes people do not listen or hear — I always believe that the primary responsibility for good communication rest with the sender , not the recipient , and I encourage the developer to get on top of their game in that respect . on a slightly link point , if the Minister catch the farming debate early , she will have hear about the concern of farmer in this space . farming economic be push farmer to accept solar farm on their land when they may prefer to keep farming . it be imperative that this country develop our food resilience , and it be critical that we be robust in our assessment of the land that could be use for solar to ensure that it be not consume good farming land . I have hear concern , as have my hon . friend the Member for Stockton South , that the assessment of land , whether at grade 3a or 3b , be possibly be do by some who may have a vested interest in the process . we must ensure that the assessment have integrity and robustness . it be of real value to our rural community that their character be maintain . we need to ensure that the multiplicity of scheme in an area be jointly assess to be certain that plan creep do not overwhelm that area . as I say , the possibility of more than 2 , 000 acre be cover in such a small and concentrated area be surely not reasonable . we also have rule and guidance about the payment make to community to support they when such scheme be approve ; they must be explicitly fair and robust , and not merely bribe for compliance . it be important for the long - term resilience and value of our rural community that they do not effectively turn into large industrial park destroy our green and pleasant land . I support solar — it be one of the green power source that we must develop in the right place — but it can not be at the expense of the rural community ' s way of life . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stockton South ( Matt Vickers ) for secure this debate relate to the development consent order for Byers Gill solar farm . I also acknowledge the contribution of my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) . they have both show incredible commitment today and previously in raise awareness of this case within the House . I must say from the outset that for propriety reason , I be unable to comment on the specific of the proposal . byer Gill be consider a nationally significant infrastructure project , as define in the Planning Act 2008 , and any application would be determine by the Secretary of State . I understand that an application for the Byers Gill solar farm be receive by the Planning Inspectorate on 9 February 2024 . the Planning Inspectorate be responsible for consider whether the application should be accept for examination and , if accept , will carry out the examination on behalf of the Secretary of State , who will review the report and make the final decision . give the quasi - judicial role of the Secretary of State in determine application , I hope the House will appreciate that I can not comment on the specific of Byers Gill solar farm or any other propose infrastructure project , as that could be see as prejudge the outcome of any proposal subsequently submit for decision through the planning process . I can , however , set out in general term how planning work for large solar project . there be establish route in the planning system to consider the impact of solar project and to enable community to raise concern about development in their area . developer take project through the nationally significant infrastructure project regime must complete considerable community engagement before any approval be grant , give community and local authority ample opportunity to feed in their view . when a developer submit an application to the Planning Inspectorate , it must be accompany by a consultation report . in that document , the developer must demonstrate that it have comply with the statutory pre - application consultation requirement and that it have have regard to the response it have receive . among other thing , the report must provide a description of how the intended application be inform and influence by those response , outline any change make as a result , and provide an explanation as to why response advise on major change to a project be not follow , include advice from statutory consultee on impact . if an applicant have not follow the advice of the local authority or not comply with guidance publish by the Planning Inspectorate , it must provide an explanation for the action take or not take . on submission of an application , the Planning Inspectorate will write to relevant local authority and ask for their view on whether the consultation have be adequate . the Planning Inspectorate will consider the consultation report alongside any representation make by a local authority on the adequacy of the developer ' s consultation and the other application document before decide whether to accept the application for examination . the planning system set out how applicant and decision maker should consider the impact of solar project on land use , the local environment , wildlife , biodiversity and , of course , landscape . that should also include consideration of cumulative impact : for example , where several solar project be deploy in close proximity . the Infrastructure Planning ( Environmental Impact Assessment ) regulation 2017 require all large solar developer to complete an environmental statement as part of any application . the environmental statement require developer to consider all potential impact during a project ' s life from pre - development to construction , operation and decommissioning . the environmental statement must be conduct by a " competent expert " , which mean that all survey and study , include soil survey , must be conduct and oversee by experienced member of their relevant professional field , such as ecology or geology , and comply with relevant code of conduct . as set out in the recently designate national policy statement for renewable energy infrastructure , while land type should not be a predominate factor in determine the suitability of a solar site location , applicant should where possible utilise suitable previously develop land , brownfield land , contaminate land and industrial land . where the propose use of agricultural land have be show to be necessary , poor quality land should be prefer to high quality land , avoid the use of " good and most versatile " agricultural land where possible . in term of the safety of battery storage , it be a priority of the Government to ensure that an appropriate , robust and future - proof health and safety programme be sustain as the industry develop and storage deployment increase . the framework be keep under review to respond to change circumstance . recent review have consider both the planning system and the environmental permitting regulation . the United Kingdom be the first major economy in the world to introduce legally bind net zero legislation . we cut emission by half between 1990 and 2022 while grow the economy by two third , decarbonise fast than any other G7 country . in 2021 , the Government adopt their sixth carbon budget for the period of 2033 to 2037 , to reduce emission by circa 78 % by 2035 compare with 1990 level . the Government have also commit to decarbonise the electricity system by 2035 , subject to security of supply . that will require deployment across a range of homegrown green technology at an unprecedented scale and pace . renewable such as solar and wind , alongside other low - carbon technology such as nuclear , will underpin the UK ' s transition from reliance on fossil fuel to the new secure clean energy system . solar deployment be a key part of the Government ' s net zero strategy , energy independence and clean growth . we be aim for up to 70 GW of solar capacity by 2035 , which would be more than quadruple our current instal capacity . we need to maximise the deployment of both ground mount and rooftop solar to achieve that ambition . I again thank my hon . friend the Members for Stockton South and for Sedgefield for raise this issue and for champion their constituency . I will ensure that the point they have raise be bring to the attention of the Ministers who cover solar and plan within the Government . although I have not be able to discuss the specific of this case , I assure they when take a decision on any development consent application , the Secretary of State will follow the relevant requirement in the Planning Act 2008 and have regard to a wide range of matter that be important and relevant to her decision . question put and agree to . House adjourn .