Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — Fuel Poverty what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on tackle the health impact of fuel poverty . the Government ' s 2021 fuel poverty strategy recognise that warm home can help to reduce health inequality and pressure on the NHS . that be a key reason why we be deliver a package of cost support worth £ 3 , 700 per household on average from 2022 to 2025 and invest heavily in fuel efficiency . the recent Institute of Health Equity Marmot report highlight the negative effect of live in cold and uninsulated home , include respiratory and circulatory disease and hamper lung and brain development in child . last year , the Energy Systems Catapult and a number of NHS provider run a trial of warm home prescription , with NHS practitioner identify vulnerable patient and support they with their energy need . I think that the Secretary of State have accept the link between cold home and health outcome . if that be the case , be the Government consider expand this approach , or look for alternative way in which the health system and fuel poverty prevention can go hand in hand ? the hon . Gentleman be right to say that a number of local warm home prescription scheme have offer additional support to help people with health vulnerability to stay warm and well . such scheme be excellent example of local collaboration between the NHS , local government and other partner — tailor , of course , to the local need of their area — and I would be interested to see whether other part of the NHS choose to take up these sort of idea in the future . urgent and Emergency Care what step her Department be take to improve urgent and emergency care . what step her Department be take to improve urgent and emergency care . what step her Department be take to improve urgent and emergency care . a year ago we set out a plan to improve urgent and emergency care , and the plan be work . performance this winter have be well , with ambulance wait down by nearly a third , and we be learn the lesson from this year to make further improvement in the year ahead . it be welcome news that the brand - new £ 30 million A & E campus at Stepping Hill Hospital be near completion . however , other building on this age site be fail and urgently need replace . will my hon . friend ensure that Stepping Hill remain at the heart of hospital facility in Stockport with rebuilt unit , and support new hospital investment and specialist diagnostic hub across Stockport ? I be delighted that Stepping Hill Hospital will soon have a new emergency care campus , with all the benefit that that will bring to my hon . friend ' s constituent . I know that she be a great campaigner for her local NHS and have already meet the Secretary of State about the concern she raise . as well as make her argument so clearly in Westminster , I would encourage she to continue discussion with her local NHS integrate care board , which be responsible for local decision on capital investment . up to £ 900 million for a brand - new acute hospital be come to mid - Hampshire and health expert be make the case that it will make huge improvement in care , despite some politically inspired and misinformed opposition . can my hon . friend reassure my constituent that those run our local NHS should be listen to , and also that the doctor - lead urgent treatment centre in Winchester will continue to provide for three quarter of urgent case include x - ray , MRI scan and other test after the new acute hospital be build , which we hope will be at junction 7 ? I commend my hon . friend for her hard work on support the new hospital , for the leadership she be provide and for her work on encourage resident to have their say in the consultation . I can not prejudge the outcome of the consultation but I agree with she that the new hospital will be great for patient , with its modern facility . she be right to say that an urgent treatment centre can provide excellent emergency care for the majority of people who attend a & E . Northampton have be the beneficiary of many welcome new or improved facility in recent year , include a child ' s A & E , a main A & E and the announcement of a community diagnostic centre . however , the miss piece of the jigsaw be an urgent treatment centre , for which I have be campaign for many year now . will the Minister inform I on the progress on that centre ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his successful campaigning for healthcare in Northampton , which be , as he say , benefit from upgrade to the child ' s A & E and the main emergency department and will soon have one of our 160 new clinical diagnostic centre . he will know that his local NHS integrate care board will decide whether to fund a new urgent treatment centre , and I have every confidence in his ability to persuade it of do so . it be one of the great success of the past few year that we now save the life of a lot more people with an acquire brain injury . although we might save they in acute and emergency care , however , a national strategy for acquire brain injury be a really important part of ensure that people have the proper care thereafter . the Government appoint I and the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , the right hon . member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) — he be just pass the hon . Lady a note to inspire she on the subject — to try to publish one . when do she hope that there will be money available to ensure that that strategy be one worth have ? I know that the hon . Gentleman be a great campaigner on this issue ; he have work very hard on it with I in the past , and he now do so with my right hon . friend the Minister for Health and Secondary Care . I assure he that we be in the process of revise the draft strategy , take on board feedback from patient , their family , charity and the NHS , and we will publish the strategy in due course . I thank all stakeholder for their continue effort . in January , the average category 2 response time for west midland ambulance service be over 43 minute . we know that the problem be bad in Shropshire , follow story such as that of a lady who wait 18 hour before see a doctor , have contract an infection follow radiation therapy for her cancer treatment . the situation in Shropshire do not seem to be improve as fast as we would like . what step be the Minister take to resolve the problem ? across the country , ambulance response time have come down by a third . we have work very hard , particularly with area that face great challenge , include Shropshire . I have speak to leader in the local health system about the ongoing challenge . we be learn lesson about what have work over the past year , and from where we have not make so much progress , to ensure that we do well in area such as the hon . Lady ' s over the year ahead . I thank the Minister for her positive answer ; they be really appreciated . bear in mind the pressure that GPs be under , which be lead to more pressure on emergency provision , what step be be take to provide great incentive for medical student to take on position in GP surgery ? that would make a big difference . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to talk about the whole health system . one thing we be do as part of our work on urgent and emergency care be prevent people from be admit to hospital unnecessarily , or from be bring to A & E in the first place . primary care be part of that . in our investment in expand medical school place , we be particularly encouraging medical school , such as the new Kent and Canterbury Medical School near I , to train student to work more outside hospital , include in primary care . I call the shadow Minister . despite water down the target for ambulance response time and the A & E four - hour wait , the Government still can not meet they . we have hear from member across the House this morning how patient be wait long . the new target say that there will be further improvement in 2024 - 25 , and the Minister have say that again this morning . can she let we in on what exactly they will be ? I be not go to pre - empt the publication of target for the come year , but , as I have say , we will continue to learn lesson from the progress that we have make this year , include on ambulance response time , which be down by over a third . anyway , I will take no lesson from Labour , because we know the state of the NHS in Wales . Social Care what progress her Department have make on reform social care . we be make great progress on our 10 - year vision for adult social care reform . we have introduce the first ever national career structure for care worker , and we have introduce new assessment by the Care Quality Commission , which will shine a light on how well council be deliver their social care duty . I be most grateful to my hon . friend for that reply . in Suffolk , where the population be increasingly elderly , social care be under enormous pressure , and it be a significant challenge to recruit carer , pay they fairly and provide they with a proper career path . therefore , I hear what my hon . Friend say , but will she consider commission a long - term workforce plan for adult social care equivalent to that for the NHS ? my hon . friend be right about the importance of the social care workforce : social care be its workforce . I can assure he that we already have a plan for the care workforce , set out in the " People at the Heart of Care " White Paper , and now we be put it into practice . our care workforce pathway be already be implement , our new accredited qualification for care worker will be launch later this year , and we be back social care with up to £ 8 . 6 billion in extra available funding . I be concerned to hear that a constituent of mine be initially deny access to social care for his mother who suffer from Alzheimer ' s despite her inability to administer her own medication . will the Government look to broaden the criterion of the Care Act 2014 to include those require support with administer medication ? we very much want everybody who need care to get it and everyone who be eligible for financial support should get it . that , of course , be assess by local authority . we be introduce Care Quality Commission assurance of social care commission by local authority , to make sure people get the care they deserve and to shine a light on where local authority be do a really good job and where other could do well . the idea of a social care cost cap have drop off the agenda slightly . I know it be incredibly expensive , but I continue to be contact by constituent who face lose everything . when often their love one have dementia and it be already emotionally an incredibly traumatic time , they have the add anxiety of how they be go to pay for care . the only thing that should matter be what work and be good for their love one , but there be a cloud of anxiety hang over society , which we all worry about . will the Minister confirm that this issue have not lose her attention and that we will continue to consider whether we can introduce a cap ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question on concern about the cost of care and how much it cost some people . as he may know — I remind he — the charge reform be delay in 2022 by the Chancellor after we listen to local authority . a fifth of the social care role in Westmorland and Furness be currently vacant and unfilled . coincidentally that be the same proportion of bed in Morecambe Bay that be occupy by patient who be unable to get a care package and therefore leave hospital . the reason for this be blindingly obvious : the pay and career structure be derisory for hard - work wonderful people and there be a complete absence of genuinely affordable home for people in those sort of role to enable they to live locally . do the Minister agree that fix that crisis in my community and other should be the priority for the Chancellor tomorrow , not silly electoral gimmick ? I recognise the challenge in the hon . Gentleman ' s area , although nationally vacancy in social care have fall by over 20 , 000 . we be reform adult social care career to make care a career for the UK workforce . we be put extra funding into social care — up to £ 8 . 6 billion over two year — and introduce CQC assurance to make sure local authority be do their good on social care . I would encourage the hon . gentleman to talk to his local authority and make sure it be pay a fair rate for the care it commission . Adult Social Care Workforce what step she be take to help increase recruitment and retention in the adult social care sector . what step she be take to help increase recruitment and retention in the adult social care sector . what step she be take to help increase recruitment and retention in the adult social care sector . care be a skilled profession and I want care worker to get the support and recognition they deserve . in January we take the next step in our ambitious care workforce reform , launch the first ever national career structure for the care workforce alongside our new nationally recognise qualification . I know the Minister will want to join I in thank every single person who dedicate themselves to work in the social care sector , include perhaps particularly those who have come to the UK from overseas to do so , but it be not sustainable to rely on incoming worker forever . the Migration Advisory Committee have find that Scotland be now less reliant on migrant worker in the social care sector than England , through the simple expedient of pay a decent wage . that might , by the way , also be a good way to stop doctor in England go on strike ; the Minister might want to look at that . have the Minister ask the Chancellor to provide funding in the Budget so that social care worker in England can enjoy the same pay and condition as their colleague in Scotland , and if not , why not ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that we be grateful to all who work in social care , include those who have come here from other country to care for our love one . we also agree that international migration be not a long - term answer to our care workforce need . that be why we be reform social care to work as a career , and we be back that with extra funding — up to £ 8 . 6 billion extra for social care over two year . I be afraid the Minister ' s warm word about the social care workforce do not meet the reality check for most people . the Government ' s own statistic show that there be at least 152 , 000 vacancy in social care in England alone , leave my constituent wait up to 10 week to be discharge from hospital . the Government have be use international recruitment to plug the gap and as a result have fill over 11 , 000 vacancy in the past few year , so can the Minister confirm whether recruitment and retention in social care will be well or bad due to Government plan to prevent overseas social care worker bring family member to the UK ? as I say a moment ago , vacancy have fall and the care workforce grow by more than 20 , 000 last year . we be see well retention of care worker as well , but we need to go far . that be why we be reform social care career , introduce the first ever national career structure for the care workforce and new qualification and training . Edinburgh Trade Union Council recently describe change to the healthcare worker visa route as cruel and inhumane . many of my constituent who have relative in care share its concern , as do I . we know the valuable contribution that foreign care worker make to the sector . ideologically drive change to visa could far exacerbate the recruitment and retention crisis that other member have so eloquently describe . give that the Government skip consultation on these change , will the Minister commit to meet trade union and social care leader in Scotland to understand the impact of these harmful change ? I be grateful to international care worker who have come to the UK to look after love one . their work have contribute to reduce vacancy and increase the supply of social care , but we need to get the balance right between international recruitment and our homegrown workforce . we be carry out ambitious reform of our adult social care workforce , and therefore it be right , alongside that , to ensure that we have the right number of people come here from overseas for social care . that be why we have work with the Home Office on change to visa . the manager of the wonderful care home I visit in Dunstable on Friday be annoy by the number of job applicant for care place who be make the interview stage and then not arrive on the day . can the Minister have a word with ministerial colleague at the Department for Work and Pensions to ensure that job coach be certain that jobseeker be not waste the time of care home ? it be not fair , and those who work in care home be busy people with a lot to do . I work closely with colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions on the recruitment of people look for job in social care , and I will raise that point with my colleague in the Department . I call the shadow Minister . it be the Minister ' s party that promise to fix the crisis in social care " once and for all " . with vacancy rate almost three time above the national average and turnover rate for new staff at more than 45 % , it be clear that the Government fail . labour ' s plan for a national care service with clear standard for provider and a new deal for staff will give social care the fundamental reset it need . the Government have do it with our workforce plan , and they have half - heartedly try it with dentistry . do the Minister want to copy our homework once again ? let we be honest , Labour have no plan for social care . whatever the shadow Minister say , it be unfunded . there be no funding commit to it and it be not meaningful . those of we on the conservative side of the House be reform adult social care . we not only have a plan , but it be in progress . I call the SNP spokesperson . I have ask the Secretary of State a number of time how she intend to recruit and retain social care staff , particularly with the visa change come into effect next Monday , stop those from overseas come to fill skill gap from bring their spouse or dependant with they . I ask again : how do the Secretary of State intend to improve the recruitment and retention of staff in the social care sector while her colleague effectively work to undermine she ? we be grateful to international worker come to support we in social care and improve supply , but we have to get the balance right between international recruitment and our domestic workforce . in England , we be reform social care career to make social care work a career for our homegrown workforce , and I encourage she to make sure the SNP do the same in Scotland . Maternity Services : North London what discussion she have have with the North Central London integrate care system on the potential closure of maternity service in north London . improve maternity care be a year 2 priority in our woman ' s health strategy for this year . any decision around maternity service need to be focus on improve outcome for mum and baby . however , decision on the local reconfiguration of service be make by local integrate care board and local trust . the maternity unit at the Royal Free Hospital in my constituency be face closure . last week , I meet with doctor from the unit who tell I that the Royal Free be uniquely place to help mother with diabetes , pregnant woman with HIV , and mother who require interventional radiology . the Royal Free be the only local provider that offer this life - change treatment 24 hour a day , seven day a week . do the Minister agree that the Royal Free maternity unit have to stay open for the sake of those vulnerable group of woman ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise her concern , but as I say , this be a public consultation . it run for 14 week and will close on 17 March . I urge she to raise her concern as part of that consultation . it be absolutely crucial that we keep expertise in our maternity service , but I understand that the local proposal by the trust and the integrated care board outline plan for £ 40 million of significant additional investment into maternity service . those decision be for the local ICB and the local trust . the deadline be 17 March , and I urge the hon . Lady to ensure she take part in that process . remain in north London , can I bring to those on the Treasury Bench my concern over the quality of nursing care at Barnet Hospital ? an elderly constituent of mine , who be in her 80 , be admit there recently . she ask to use the lavatory but be tell no one could take she , and be hand a nappy ; she wait three hour until someone could actually take she to the loo . she be a coeliac , but be not offer any food for coeliac during her 10 - day stay because nobody have read her note . she be also move around her bed by her arm despite have a broken shoulder , which nobody know as nobody have read her note . I be very sorry to hear about the experience of my hon . friend ' s constituent . that level of care be absolutely unacceptable . I know he have raise this particular issue with the Patient Safety Commissioner , Henrietta Hughes , but I be very happy to meet with my hon . friend and his constituent to discuss those complaint , because that care be not acceptable . gynaecology Treatment what step she be take to reduce waiting time for gynaecology treatment . at Buckinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust , the number of gynaecology patient wait more than 52 week reduce by over 30 % between August and December , but I sympathise with the many woman who be still wait too long . NHS England have be do target work to help trust with the most long waiter to support gynaecology patient in the community where appropriate , and to find specialist service that can treat they as quickly as possible . my local NHS trust recently state that the average wait for a gynaecology appointment be 18 week , with patient start treatment within 24 week , but that do not include those on cancer pathway . one of my constituent who have be identify as have abnormal cell in her cervix wait more than 60 week for a diagnostic assessment . she be one of many contact I with tale of long delay for gynaecology appointment and pay to go private out of desperation . what step be the Department take to reduce waiting time for gynaecology assessment and treatment for those on cancer pathway ? significant investment be go in to reduce both general wait time and cancer wait time . More patient on the cancer pathway have be see than ever before ; nearly 220 , 000 patient be see last December follow an urgent GP referral for suspect cancer , represent 117 % of December 2019 level . we continue to keep this under review and continue to strive to make the system go fast and reduce the elective backlog . I call the shadow Minister . NHS figure from December show that the number of woman wait for gynaecological treatment reach another record high of nearly 600 , 000 . that number have triple since 2012 . a Labour Government will cut NHS waiting list in England by fund 2 million more appointment a year . what can the Minister say to the woman wait urgently for treatment ? I would say that we be stick to our plan to back the NHS to cut waiting list and make our NHS fairer , simple and fast . when there be no strike action , that plan be work . we already eliminate the long wait , and , in November , we see the big fall in waiting list outside of the pandemic in more than a decade , alongside record investment in thing like woman ' s health hub . we be prioritise woman ' s health . Primary Care what step her Department be take to improve access to primary care . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of primary care provision in rural community . we have meet our manifesto commitment to deliver a record extra 50 million gp appointment annually . our primary care recovery plan address increase gp access and expand community pharmacy service nationwide with Pharmacy First . our NHS dentist reform plan also allocate resource for 2 . 5 million appointment , target rural and coastal community . I thank the Secretary of State for her response , and I thank the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) , for visit the community diagnostic centre and minor injury unit at the Herts and Essex Hospital yesterday and all the fantastic staff there . Frontier Estates commit to build a gp surgery as part of the wide Stortford Fields development . however , cite inflated build cost , it now question the viability of the plan despite month of negotiation and effort by the local NHS to find a solution . will my right hon . friend work with colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , with whom I have already meet on this issue , to ensure that Frontier really engage with the process and build the surgery it promise my constituent ? I congratulate my hon . friend on the enormous amount of work she have do in her constituency to secure that community diagnostic centre . we have roll out some 160 or so of those centre across England — we want to do more — and they be supply some 6 million test and scan for patient across England . on the important issue that my hon . friend raise , my official and Levelling up official be already consider how primary care infrastructure can be well support in the planning process to ease the pressure on primary care estate , particularly in area of housing growth . I know that she will continue to be as conscientious in her campaigning on that as she be on other matter . rural community need local , easily accessible primary care . since Long Crendon surgery close during the pandemic , patient in that village and surround village have be displace , mainly to Brill and Thame , for GP appointment . for the vulnerable and those without private car , the absence of regular bus service can mean an unaffordable £ 25 at least in taxi to see a gp . I have raise many time an innovative approach to build a new health centre in Long Crendon by the parish council , which have the land and the agreement by the ICB for the rent to put Unity Health in there — we just need the money to build it . will my right hon . friend break down every barrier to help we get that health centre build in Long Crendon ? again , I very much admire the effort and determination that my hon . friend be show to stand up for his constituent . he will know that sadly I be constrain from comment on individual case , but what I do know be that the innovation he be show alongside his parish council — and , indeed , I would hope , his local integrate care board — be the approach we want to adopt across our rural and coastal community to ensure that they , too , have the access to primary care that we all expect . equal access to primary care be so important , but the use of physician associate be downright dangerous . do the Secretary of State agree that patient have the right to see a qualified gp and not be fob off with a two - tier primary care system ? I understand the concern — we have see they in the medium — but , please , we in this House have a responsibility to our constituent and to professional work in healthcare , include our clinician and physician associate . in fact , physician associate have be work in the NHS for some two decade . they be there to work with doctor to assist they , free up doctor ' time to focus on the task that only they be qualified to do . we have be very careful to listen to the concern raise , which be why we recently announce intention to regulate they . but , please , we must all take that responsibility for ensure that we be not spread concern . actually , these role can have a very positive effect on healthcare system . my constituent be feed up with battle to see a gp . I have be work hard across party line with local councillor and the ICB , but I be surprised to hear from the Prime Minister in response to a question last week that only £ 2 million be allocate to my ICB for primary care , and that it should raid its hospital refurbishment budget instead . could the Secretary of State advise I which part of the much need hospital investment should be overlook to compensate for the failure to invest in primary care locally ? again , it be for integrated care board to assess the need of their area . if there be concern about access to primary care , we be keen to give they the autonomy to make decision about how they spend their budget . we have set expectation of integrate care board in a couple of respect — in particular , we expect they to use the money that we have provide for dental care and we have set clear expectation that integrate care board will introduce at least one woman ' s health hub in their area this year . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . while we be talk about the recovery of primary care and the Secretary of State be at the Dispatch Box , the recover access plan release last May talk about high - quality online consultation , text message service and online booking tool . they be due in July , but that become August and then December , and I understand that it have now be delay indefinitely due to a claim make against NHS England in what be a £ 300 million project . that delay be hit access to primary care . will the Secretary of State update the House ? we be determined to bring not just primary care but the whole NHS up to speed with technology . we be firm advocate of the idea that technology can help free clinician ' time and ensure that they be spend time look at their patient rather than at computer screen . in primary care , we be work to ensure the digital telephony service that have play such a critical role in provide those 50 million additional appointment , as I describe . I will take away my hon . friend ' s point , and look into they carefully . I have be correspond with the Primary Care Minister , the right hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , and her predecessor about urgently need to protect general practice location in city centre from outdated Treasury rule that potentially force they to move to ring - road location . the Minister ' s late reply suggest that the ICB could use capital funding to pay for new premise , but my ICB claim that that be against the rule . would she and her official please urgently meet I and my local ICB to bottom out what the rule be and urgently protect our city centre gp location ? I will ask the relevant Minister to write to the hon . Lady . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the simple fact be that the Conservatives have be in power for 14 year , and general practice have never be in a bad state . despite slog their gut out , GPs be struggle because this Government have cut 2 , 000 GPs since 2015 , make it even hard for patient to get an appointment . give that , why have the Government decide that the NHS need what the Institute for Fiscal Studies have describe as the big funding cut since the 1970 ? it have be a very long time since Labour be in government , but even the hon . Gentleman know that Ministers will never comment on fiscal event the day before they occur . let I introduce some fact into his analysis . we have now deliver on our manifesto commitment for 50 million more general practice appointment per year , with 363 . 8 million book in the last 12 month . that compare with 312 million deliveredin the 12 month to December 2019 . [ interruption . ] if the hon . Gentleman stop shout , perhaps he would be able to hear I . about 62 , 000 more appointment be deliver per working day last December , exclude covid vaccination . we have our primary care recovery plan , and it be work . of course there be more to do , but even the hon . Gentleman would not be so churlish as to deny those extra 50 million appointment . tobacco and vaping : legislation when she plan to introduce a tobacco and vape bill . the hon . Member will know that , shockingly , smoke kill 80 , 000 people across the UK every year , and cost society £ 17 billion in ill health and loss of productivity . the Government will introduce the tobacco and vape Bill shortly . I be delighted to say that Northern Ireland Ministers announce just this morning that we will legislate for the whole of the United Kingdom . I thank the Minister for that answer . I just want to say that the age - relate Bill on the sale of tobacco product will create the first generation of smoke - free people in the United Kingdom . all politic be local , and it be vital that we have the same legislation in Northern Ireland . in Northern Ireland , smoke contribute to at least 1 , 300 smoking - relate cancer per year . some 13 . 9 % of the people in my constituency continue to smoke , irrespective of the guidance give . I be glad to hear the Minister ' s assurance on the legislation , but will the Government engage with the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure it be on their priority list ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that the Secretary of State meet the Northern Ireland Health Minister just yesterday . I absolutely assure he that all part of the United Kingdom will be include in the once - in - a - generation public health intervention that will save million of life . I urge my right hon . friend to get on with introduce the Bill , because every single day we delay , more people die of cancer and other smoking - relate disease . equally , in create the first generation of people who will not be allow to buy cigarette or tobacco product — that be excellent — do she agree that one concern be that young people be now take up vaping instead of smoking , and that vaping be clearly a path towards nicotine addiction ? yes . my hon . friend raise an incredibly important point . there be no doubt that tobacco and vaping company be now try to recruit child , put vape , include many illegal vape , next to the sweet counter with extraordinary flavour such as bubble gum and berry blast , which be clearly not design , as be originally propose , for adult smoker to be able to quit smoking by move to vaping . he be absolutely right and we will bring forward this once - in - a - generation legislation shortly . community and District Nurses what step she plan to take to improve the recruitment and retention of community and district nurse . we have deliver our manifesto commitment of 50 , 000 more nurse six month early . there be now almost 361 , 000 nurse work across the NHS . as part of that , community nursing have grow by over 9 % since 2019 . there have be a crisis brewing in community - face nursing over the past decade , with the number of district nurse down by 40 % and health visitor number in England and Wales fall by almost a third . what guarantee will the Minister provide that this vital workforce will be support , when health budget in all the nation of the UK be under increase strain and NHS funding face a £ 2 billion black hole , and cut to spending in England have a consequential impact on budget in Scotland ? record funding be go into our NHS . in addition to the 9 % increase in community nursing since 2019 , we be invest over £ 2 . 4 billion in education and training through the NHS long term workforce plan , which commit to increase training place for district nurse by 41 % by the end of the decade . since 2010 , we have deliver over 63 , 300 more nurse and midwive into our NHS . Draft Mental Health Bill when she plan to respond to the Joint Committee on the Draft Mental Health Bill ' s report entitle " Draft Mental Health Bill 2022 " , publish on 19 January 2023 . I put on record my thank to the member of the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee , which scrutinise our draft Mental Health Bill . we be look at the recommendation and will respond to the Committee ' s report shortly . it be now over a year since the Joint Committee report on the draft Mental Health Bill be publish . despite repeat promise of reform , the Government have fail to act . More than 50 , 000 people be hold under the Mental Health Act 1983 . it be an outrage to they and to campaigner that reform have be de - prioritise . will the Minister confirm when the Government plan to bring a formal Bill to Parliament and what conversation they have have with the Chancellor in the run - up to the Budget to ensure the reform be properly resource ? as I have say , we have publish our draft Bill , it have undergo pre - legislative scrutiny and I shall respond to the Committee ' s recommendation shortly , but this be not just about legislative reform . as a result of the £ 143 million that we have invest in crisis support , we have already see less use of the Mental Health Act 1983 because people be be see early : our crisis caf é s and crisis telephone service , for example , have lead to a 15 % reduction in the use of the Act . it be a number of year since we promise to reform mental health legislation that reflect a time when people with severe mental ill health be view as problem to be manage rather than as individual . I believe that we on these Benches , as conservative , should be do everything we can to empower people and respect their liberty . it simply be not right that in the 21st century people ' s health condition be be manage through the forced administration of drug , which pay no respect to their liberty . may I reiterate the urgency with which measure should be introduce , particularly as people with live experience have relive their trauma to provide the benefit of their experience ? I absolutely entirely agree . that be why the Government publish the draft Bill in January last year , and why it undergo pre - legislative scrutiny . I give evidence to the Committee , and we be work our way through its detailed recommendation and will publish our response shortly . however , that be in addition to our significant reform of mental health service , particularly early intervention and crisis caf é s . we have see the impact of that : 15 % few detention under the Mental Health Act , 8 % few admission to hospital and 12 % few admission from our mental health crisis telephone centre , which be now available across England 24 / 7 . Healthcare for Women what step she be take to improve healthcare for woman . woman ' s health be one of my top priority . as we approach International Women ' s day , we have already improve access to contraception and the treatment of urinary tract infection through Pharmacy First , announce £ 50 million of funding for research on maternity disparity and other health condition affect woman , and set the expectation that each integrate care board area will have at least one woman ' s health hub operate this year . for more than a decade I have be raise the appalling , often agonise treatment of many woman who need hysteroscopy in the NHS . they be be leave with unnecessary trauma and be reluctant to engage far with doctor , which be quite simply life - threatening . however , the medical establishment continue to resist change and the Government shirk their leadership role . early this year the Secretary of State set out her priority for the woman ' s health strategy , and access to pain - free hysteroscopy be not include . why ? I thank the hon . Lady for her work in this regard , and I absolutely acknowledge the issue that woman be experience with this highly invasive procedure at what be often an extremely distressing time in their life . we be wait for the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists to update its guideline on good practice in hysteroscopy . follow consultation last year that be under peer review , and be due to publish soon . however , as the hon . Lady know , I be clear that it should not be the responsibility of woman in those very distressing circumstance to ask for pain relief . clinician must assume that a woman want it , and discuss that with she before the procedure . I welcome the Government ' s recent refresh of the woman ' s health strategy and the addition to it of birth trauma . however , I be currently chair a national inquiry into birth trauma , and we be hear from mother throughout the United Kingdom about some of the severe mental health condition that they be face , include postpartum psychosis . I have be particularly concerned to hear about the risk of suicide among new mother . what action be the Government take to address this ? let I put on record my admiration for my hon . friend ' s action in share her own experience in order to improve healthcare for woman across the country . she will know of yesterday ' s important announcement about suicide prevention , element of which address exactly the concern that she have rightly raise . thank to her hard work , we have also announce that within eight week or so of give birth mum will be ask by GPs whether they be okay , and we hope very much that that will open up the conversation with woman who may be struggle . Amma Birth Companions have just be recognise in the 2024 GSK IMPACT award . the charity be do really important work to support vulnerable asylum seeker and refugee who would otherwise face give birth alone . will the Secretary of State meet the charity to discuss its work and research , give the disparity that continue for this group of woman ? the hon . Lady describe a very interesting piece of work . I will ask my ministerial colleague to meet the charity , as we want to support woman . indeed , part of our work across the woman ' s health strategy be ensure that maternity service be not just safe , but trust by mum - to - be . with regard to healthcare for woman , a gynaecologist who claim that Hammersmith would be well if it be " Jew free " have be rule as not racist , but merely " comfortable with use discriminatory language " , accord to the Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service . he be merely suspend for three month and be due to start see patient again in a few week . I be concerned that this doctor may be a danger to jewish patient . I be also concerned that the tribunal be defective and its decision be grossly unreasonable . will the Secretary of State instruct Government lawyer to begin judicial review proceeding against the tribunal ? I sincerely thank my right hon . and learn Friend for raise this issue . as the Prime Minister set out on the step of Downing Street last week , there be people whose ideology and dogma be in direct conflict with our country ' s share value . just as we will not stand for that across the country , nor will I stand for it in our NHS . I have already write to NHS England and regulator , set out their responsibility and our expectation of they , and I can assure my right hon . and learn Friend that I will be look into this issue with great urgency and great care . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I be committed to make our nhs fast , simple and fair for all , include family , which be why the Government have recently introduce baby loss certificate . nothing can diminish the pain of lose a baby , but we hope that this formal recognition of a life lose can help family to live alongside their grief . indeed , since we announce the launch some two week ago , more than 37 , 000 certificate have be request by parent . that same commitment to family be why we be roll out Martha ' s rule across England , give patient and their family the automatic right to a rapid review of their case — 24 hour a day , seven day a week . family and carer know when something be not right or their love one ' s condition be deteriorate . Martha ' s rule not only recognise this powerful instinct , but allow anyone concern to act on it and to make sure that the NHS listen . with your permission , Mr Speaker , for which I be very grateful , I would like to alert the House to a write ministerial statement and a detailed letter from NHS England that have be lay this morning . it address a historical issue whereby woman who receive radiotherapy above the waist to treat Hodgkin lymphoma , and who be therefore at a high risk of breast cancer , be not give annual check . yesterday , the NHS write to the 1 , 487 woman affect in order to inform they . we expect all woman to be offer a scan within the next three month , and NHS England have establish a helpline and brief GPs and relevant charity . the vast majority of this group of woman will already have be receive screening on a three - yearly basis , but NHS England want to ensure that they receive annual test , in line with the clinical guidance . I want to alert hon . member to that because , with the letter have be send out yesterday , it be perfectly possible — indeed , probable — that they will start to receive query from their constituent . I will of course keep the House update . I emphasise , however , that what I have give be a summary , and I would encourage hon . member to look at the very detailed letter from NHS England in order to reassure their constituent that we be scoop up everybody we can to look after they at this very troubling time . like many people here , I be delight by last month ' s NHS dentistry recovery plan . how many new NHS dental appointment do the Secretary of State expect to be available in my constituency of Weston - super - Mare , and by when ? I thank my hon . friend for support our dental recovery plan . indeed , he be one of many colleague who campaign hard for it . I be pleased to inform he that dental activity , as measure by course of treatment , have increase by 15 % on the previous year in his local integrate care board area , and our plan will support further increase to dental access through some 2 . 5 million additional appointment across the country , include in his constituency . the first measure , namely new patient premium , go live on Friday , and we hope to have the result very soon . I call the shadow Secretary of State . with a general election in the air , I welcome what the Secretary of State have say about baby loss certificate and Martha ' s rule — there be genuine cross - party agreement on this . I also thank she for advance notice of today ' s important write ministerial statement . however , with a general election in the air and give the Secretary of State ' s principle , vocal and consistent opposition to fund the NHS by abolish the non - dom tax status , on a scale of one to 10 — one be utterly shameless and 10 be highly embarrassed — how red - faced will she be when the Chancellor adopt Labour ' s policy tomorrow ? one of the joy of be at the Government Dispatch Box be that not only do we have to deal with very serious matter , such as I have just set out , but we get to have a knockabout on the Labour party ' s electioneer . the hon . Gentleman will know the Conservatives ' proud record on fund our NHS since 2010 . I invite he to wait for tomorrow ' s Budget to see what more this Conservative Government be do to support our constituent , and to help our economy grow for a bright future . the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , have say that the policy will be " as much use as an ashtray on a motorbike . " — [ Official Report , 28 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 710 . ] as she speed down the A23 back to Lewes , to defend her constituency against the Liberal Democrats , how on earth will she feel with all those ember of the Conservatives ' 14 - year record blow in her face ? be it not now clear that , with the Government have adopt Labour ' s workforce plan , Labour ' s dentistry recruitment plan and now Labour ' s NHS funding plan , when it come to a record to be proud of , and when it come to find the answer , only Labour can deliver an NHS that be fit for the future ? the Leader of the Opposition be a former barrister , and barrister like to rely on evidence , so let I give some evidence on what the labour - run NHS in Wales look like . People be almost twice as likely to be wait for treatment under the labour - run Welsh NHS — 21 . 3 % of people in Wales be wait for hospital treatment after a consultant referral , compare with 12 . 8 % in England . patient in labour - run Wales be , on average , wait five week long for NHS treatment than patient in England , and the number of patient in Wales who be escape to seek treatment in England have increase by 40 % in two year . but don ' t worry , folk , accord to the Leader of the Opposition this be the blueprint — order . I remind everyone that these be topical question . it be about the many member I need to get in , rather than the ping - pong over the Dispatch Box . let we move on to Andrew Jones as a good example . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I be talk to my local integrate care board about establish the first centre of dental excellence in North Yorkshire , to be locate in Harrogate , to build on the dental recovery plan . do my right hon . friend the Secretary of State agree that boost capacity be critical to catch up from the pandemic , and that centre of dental excellence be a very good way to achieve it ? I completely agree with my hon . friend that we need more capacity in our dental workforce , and I know he will be a big advocate for his constituency . we set out in the first ever NHS long - term workforce plan that we will increase dentistry training place by 40 % by 2031 - 32 . our dental recovery plan set out many different measure to improve capacity . I call the SNP spokesperson . later this month I will be 10 year cancer free , have survive melanoma first as a teenager and again in my early 20 . can the Secretary of State look I in the eye and guarantee that she be do all she can to prevent other from get the same diagnosis ? again , I thank the hon . Lady for share her experience , and of course we be do all we can . I know that the SNP Scottish Government share our determination to ensure that cancer treatment continue to improve . England be diagnose early and treat more . we have see cancer survival rate improve by almost 10 percentage point since 2005 , but we also know that four in 10 cancer could be prevent , which be exactly why we be bring forward the smoke - free generation work . of course , if the Scottish Government would like we to help with some of their waiting list , we genuinely stand ready to do so . the general practice estate and technology transformation fund support project in my constituency and be appreciate by my local integrate care board . what evaluation have be make of it , and will it be continue ? I have have a number of meeting with my hon . friend and know that he be determined to resolve some of these long - stand issue in his constituency . I have assure he that icb have the freedom to increase capital for primary care in their region , so long as their plan remain within their overall capital allocation . I will certainly be happy to meet he again to talk about what more measure we can take to support his constituent . I hold my first dental summit since the publication of the Government ' s dental recovery plan , which I have to say be meet with disappointment and frustration . the reason for that be that be not enough funding or flexibility , or the resolution to the contract . will the Minister set out the timetable for when the dental contract will be resolve ? I be very surprised and disappoint to hear the hon . Lady say that . we be deliver 2 . 5 million more appointment through the new patient premium , which start last Friday . we will have information within a month to see which dentist have take up this generous new patient premium to ensure that many more people get access to dentistry . not only that , but we have golden hello to attract dentist to area that be underserved , mobile dental van and , importantly , a new focus on Smile4life . that be go to ensure that all baby and young child have that fabulous smile for life . the Pharmacy First service have prove popular in Amber Valley , but some pharmacist report confusion because the ear infection service apply only to under 18 and patient be be refer to pharmacy when they should not be . will the Minister either extend the service to over - 18 or ensure that NHS communication be clear that this service be only for child ? my hon . friend raise an important point . he will be aware that a decision be take that ear wax removal service be well do in the community and that ear syringing can cause problem . that area be under review and I be happy to write to he to address the specific point he make about over - 18 and child . I absolutely agree that we should redouble our effort to recruit and retain more home - grow carer , as the Welsh Government be do by pay they all at least the real living wage , but in the short term we have to rely on foreign worker . from her early answer , it appear that the Social Care Minister be happy to deprive they of the enjoyment of their own family life , while we expect they to give our relative love care . will she think again and speak to Home Office colleague about drop this totally inhumane ban ? as the hon . Lady will have hear I say early , we be grateful to international care worker who come to care for our love one in this country . we need to get the balance right between international recruitment and our home - grow care workforce . on the question specifically on dependant , I say to she that every care worker who come here to do work in the UK have a choice as to whether to come here or not . I thank the Health and Secondary Care Minister for visit the new medical school in Chelmsford yesterday . this be the first time that student have ever be able to train as doctor in Essex in its history , and the result be phenomenal . this be live proof of the Government ' s commitment to train the NHS staff of the future . what progress be he make to increase work placement for student so that we can train even more doctor , nurse and people for important role such as physician associate ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question and her kind invite to visit her constituency . I pay tribute to all the work she have do to secure investment in Anglia Ruskin University . she be right to highlight the importance of deliver clinical placement as part of the long - term workforce plan . I assure she that we be work closely with NHS England and partner in health and education to ensure that happen . medicine shortage have double in the UK in the last two year . there might be some global pressure , but two issue have particularly affect the UK : first , the post - brexit regulatory framework ; and secondly , the fact that the pound have tank , make it more expensive to buy medicine . what be the Government do to undo that Brexit dividend ? the hon . Gentleman sound like a broken record , as usual . the Department have no evidence to suggest that EU exit be lead to sustained medicine shortage . shortage occur for a wide range of reason and be affect country all over the world . Rural Norfolk be experience a dental crisis and a generation of child be in danger of go without dental care . I welcome the dental recovery plan , but I notice that it will be four or five year before we get more dentist . last week , NHS Norfolk and Waveney integrate care board announce a £ 17 million underspend on dentistry . will the Minister agree to meet with I and the ICB to work out how we get more money out now to help dentistry in Norfolk today ? one of the many way we have tackle access to dental care be to ensure that those dentist who have a contract to conduct NHS work be use they to the top of their licence . we be encourage dentist to do that through the new patient premium and a high rate pay for unit of dental activity . there be so much more to the plan . labour keep try to claim credit for our plan , but the truth be that our plan promise 2 . 5 million appointment while its plan promise a miserly 700 , 000 . it be imperative that we tackle the scourge of mental ill health in child and young people . labour will ensure access to mental health support in every school and establish an open - access mental health hub in every community , pay for by charge vat on private school fee . why will the Government not adopt that plan ? I have a news flash for the hon . lady : we be already do all that work . mental health support team be be roll out in school — 44 % of pupil now have access to a mental health support team , rise to 50 % shortly . over 13 , 800 school and college now have a train senior mental health lead . only last week we announce 24 early support hub for 11 to 25 - year - old — they will not need a referral ; they can drop in . there be 24 / 7 helpline available that can be access through 111 . that be what we be do . Mid and South Essex integrate care board be seek to remove vital community health service from St Peter ' s Hospital in Maldon . will the Minister meet I and our right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) to discuss the proposal ? they will affect both our constituency and be cause a great deal of concern . I would be very happy to meet my right hon . friend to discuss those concern . I thank the Secretary of State for her offer to help cut waiting list in Scotland . I listen to the frankly delusional statement from the SNP Benches about the state of the NHS in Scotland . we be in dire strait and suffer the same problem , particularly about GPs and appointment disappear . when be we go to see an improvement in appointment availability ? the hon . Lady will no doubt be extremely envious of the fact that in England there be 50 million more GP appointment now every year , which be a fantastic achievement by this Government . she will want to look at what be happen in Scotland , which have some of the bad health outcome in western Europe , and challenge SNP Ministers over drug and alcohol death rate and fall in life expectancy . will my right hon . friend explain an anomaly in the " Agenda for Change " pay deal as it affect non - NHS provider ? People work in the NHS for non - NHS provider may be eligible for extra money if the organisation they work for be in financial difficulty , but not if it be not . so badly run organisation be be reward and well - run organisation be be penalise , which seem to I to be perverse . I be happy to meet my right hon . friend to discuss the matter . we have reach pay settlement with the " Agenda for Change " union , and we continue to reach pay deal with other union . we be also support non - NHS provider whose contract be dynamically align . it be a complex area , so I be more than happy to meet my right hon . friend to discuss his concern . the Secretary of State will know that NHS England be expect to announce the decision about the primary child ' s centre for cancer treatment in south London and south - east London . Evelina London Children ' s Hospital in my constituency be one of the only specialist centre in south London . do she agree that the final decision should be make as soon as possible in order to benefit staff , patient and family ? will she join I in visit Evelina London ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . in fairness , colleague from across the House have be raise this issue with I because it affect a large population of London and the surround area . I must leave it to NHS England to finish its consultation process , but I would be very happy to visit not just the Evelina but our other wonderful hospital that look after child . give the expansion of health service through Pharmacy First , what action be my right hon . friend the Minister take to ensure that community such as Sandiacre in my constituency , whose branch of Boots be due to close at the end of the month , be not leave without access to such vital service ? I be very happy to discuss that matter with my hon . friend , who be a huge advocate for her constituency . it be always disappointing when a community pharmacy close , but she will know that the launch of Pharmacy First on 31 January expand the value and contribution of all our community pharmacy . it have be meet with a £ 645 million investment over this year and next . on access to primary care provision , will the Secretary of State assure the House that she will liaise with Health Ministers in the devolved department to ensure that rural community do not lose out because of their isolated location ? I be very happy to give that assurance . I be delighted to meet Minister Swann yesterday to discuss his plan for Northern Ireland healthcare , include access to primary care . I remind member of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency ' s international recognition procedure will ensure fast access to innovative treatment , but it will realise its full potential only if it be match by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence ' s evaluation process . what be my right hon . friend the Minister do to ensure that the two process be align ? my hon . friend will be aware that there have be delay with approval by the MHRA and NICE . we be keen to ensure that those delay be reduce , and I be delighted to tell the House that significant progress have be make in both organisation . I be happy to work with my hon . friend and both organisation to ensure that progress continue to be make . figure obtain by the British Dental Association project that £ 8 million of the NHS budget in Somerset be go unspent . will the Minister explain to my constituent , who be suffer in dental agony , why that be happen ? I encourage the hon . Lady to hold her integrate care board to account . we invest more than £ 3 billion a year in dentistry , and our dental recovery plan mean that significant money be available for NHS dentistry . it be for the integrate care board to commission those unit of dental activity , which now offer more money — a minimum of £ 28 per UDA . I be happy to meet the hon . Lady if she find she be not get anywhere with her ICB . I be currently work with a brilliant local pharmacist , Fizz , to open a new NHS dental practice in Belfairs in my constituency . premise and dentist have be line up , but we need the ICB to commission the service . will the Minister meet I , my local ICB and Fizz to unlock that vital service as soon as possible ? I be delighted to hear about that really good news for my hon . friend ' s constituent — I know she work tirelessly for they . of course , I will be very happy to meet she . Wendy Hart have a high white blood cell count when she be discharge from the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital . her husband , Terence , describe a dreadful , pointless 60 - mile round trip home and back to hospital before Wendy die of sepsis . will the Minister consider distance between acute hospital and rural community when review hospital discharge guidance ? I be very sorry to hear about what happen to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . I send my condolence to her family and love one . clearly , it be very important that discharge decision be lead by clinician , who can make a clinical decision about whether somebody be medically ready to be discharge . I have no doubt that the family may well take up that decision with local NHS organisation . no doctor want to be on strike , so I welcome the new deal with the consultant union . it show that by be reasonable , pragmatic and act in good faith , union can deliver for their member . do my right hon . friend agree ? my hon . friend know only too well the importance of industrial action and the impact it can have on patient and on the NHS as a whole . I be pleased that the BMA have announce today , follow the previous settlement that be narrowly reject in its ballot , that it have be able to get back around the table with my official and I . we have be able to find a fair and reasonable settlement that the bma will advocate for and recommend to its member . we hope that that show those who be choose to strike that constructive negotiation , and try to sort out some of the concern that we know clinician have , can be deal with in a reasonable manner , which be of benefit not just to staff , but to patient . how many people be treat for acquire brain injury last year ? the hon . Gentleman have catch I off guard — I will write to he . I be keen to continue work with he on that issue . as he know , we have already share draft detail of the acquire brain injury strategy with he and member of the all - party parliamentary group , and I be very keen to continue work collaboratively on that issue with he . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I have speak before in the House about my constituent , retired school caretaker Gary Godwin , who be fight for redress after lose £ 2 , 000 of his hard - earn saving to the now defunct funeral plan firm Safe Hands . Gary and 47 , 000 other look to have be let down by a fail regulatory regime oversee by the Treasury and the Financial Conduct Authority , for a grand total of £ 60 million between they . after raise the issue in question to the Leader of the House last July and at Treasury question last October , I finally manage , at the start of the year , after several attempt , to get a meeting with the Economic Secretary , who say he would raise it with the Chancellor . have not have a reply for two month , I inform the Economic Secretary that I would raise a point of order today . within an hour , I receive a reply , but there be no mention of discuss the matter with the Chancellor , or of a review of the correspondence , as be originally promise . will you tell I , Mr Speaker , what more I can do to ensure that Gary and his fellow victim do not have a lengthy wait for justice ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order and for give I notice of it . I understand that the Chancellor have reply to his letter in the last few minute — be that correct ? in any case , those on the Treasury Bench will have hear what he have have to say . he still have time to table a question for the Chancellor at Treasury question on 19 March to follow up on this important matter . I be sure that the Table Office will be able to advise he on how to else he might pursue it . Senior Civil Service ( accountability and Appointment ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the scrutiny and approval by Parliament of appointment to senior civil service role ; and for connected purpose . in this nation , people rightly expect this elect and accountable Parliament to oversee an impartial civil service . the notion of distance and unaccountability have , however , grow among the populace like a spectre , cause by unnecessary tension on both side and cast aspersion on the majority . it be time something be do about it . we need this reform because nothing be more fundamental to our democracy than the relationship between Parliament and the civil service . this be the mother of Parliaments , and our civil service be hold to be the gold standard in the world of officialdom . when elect member and the civil service row in the same direction , we can produce startling result , which have beat fascist , build the NHS , and win the olympic bid . when the conduct between we become strained , when confidence be undermine and when accountability , trust or respect be lack , we get cast - iron assurance regard matter such as weapon of mass destruction and sub - par personal protective equipment contract . as a result , perfectly sound policy get stall . I be sure all colleague will agree that our civil service be a great one , as be our Parliament — man and woman dedicate to the public good — but have be plague in recent year by increase tension that have a fundamental impact on the discharge of governance and policy . let we consider the issue we have see in recent year and how they tell of structural deficiency , rather than be merely isolate accident under a particular Administration . the Sue Gray affair should alarm we all , whatever side of the House we sit on . to have a civil servant preside over an investigation into a Prime Minister , and then achieve escape velocity from the civil service to go and work immediately for the opposition , have scar the view of impartiality that the majority rightly accept and expect . the same could be say of the role of political appointee . in many way , we can view certain Labour and conservative spin doctor as essentially the same entity : unaccountable to the public , but very much impose on the public , beyond the advisory role for which they be initially intend . both those issue could be address through update to the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 , which seek to well control apparatus such as special adviser , but if we wish to fix an issue , we need to amend the culture that go with it . to do that , we need to start at the top . we need a culture that the majority of the service still respect . let we define that top and the route to it . the great mandarin who hold vast power be often faceless . that can not be right in a democracy : if a person want power , they must be subject to the sunlight of this place . permanent secretary be appoint under a scheme in which the Prime Minister have the final say in the recruitment process — the Prime Minister alone choose directly from a list create by the civil service commissioner . if any Member present can , without the aid of Google , name the commissioner who appoint people to hold power over their constituent ' live , I would be amazed . it be not just the permanent secretary we must consider . the Transparency of Lobbying , Non - party Campaigning and Trades Union Administration Act 2014 explain that a permanent secretary be a person serve in a range of government post . that definition need massively expand to ensure that it encompass top official within state entity such as the NHS — for instance , the ceo of the NHS be often see as a godlike distant figure and not suitably accountable to this place . let we be in no doubt : horrific thing happen if a culture be enable where official feel they be above policy instruction from the elect . at the current time , advancement in the civil service come from appease the establish network , such as the commission , and the Minister for the civil service . these people serve the nation , so their fortune should lie with this institution , not an elite few within it . I do not propose that we fix all the issue at once , nor do I propose a baby - out - with - the - bathwater approach , but a modest solution that reset the relationship to a more traditional and , may I say , british footing . by that , I mean a process that be less invest in smoke - fill room with those from the Executive , one that empower this place . I propose that a cross - party Committee of both Houses be form to fold those appointment into understand due process . appointment would be fix - term and renewable by this place , which will end at a stroke the concept of a job for life . this be hardly revolution : it be a mix of establish democratic process in Parliament and professional standard that industry outside this place would recognise . it would only impact a few dozen people at the top ; it be hardly onerous . I imagine that 99 . 9 % of the civil service would not be impact , but the change to the culture at the top would cascade down . if the upper echelon know they be well oversee by this place — this cross - party institution — they would ensure that those they manage be correctly support , mentor and hold to account . some siren voice claim that this work could be discharge by Select Committees hold more hearing , or that well training of Ministers could fix all the issue , but the bottom line be that if a person have vast power over the machinery of government but do not feel a sense of fealty to Parliament , such idea be mere tinker . what I have propose can be do now , in a modest manner , to gently course - correct a few error and modernise and empower this institution . if we do not do so , eventually we could well need more radical reform . the relief valve be simple and establish : professional industry process via this accountable House . let we act now , because if a trend of unaccountability continue to make people question who be really run Britain , the gold standard I mention will soon be see as fool ' s gold . question put and agree to . order , that Giles Watling , Michael Fabricant , Andrew Rosindell and Mr Mark Francois present the Bill . gile Watling accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 May , and to be print ( Bill 171 ) . Automated Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] second reading [ relevant document : Seventh Report of the Transport Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , self - drive vehicle , HC 519 , and the Government response , Session 2023 - 24 , HC 264 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . as hon . member know , most journey take place on our road . about 86 % be make by car , taxi and van , but in the over 100 year since the invention of the car , despite our vehicle become well , safe and now clean , one aspect of driving have remain constant : the driver have always control the vehicle . in future , thing may be different . for all or part of a driver ' s journey , self - drive vehicle will free they from that responsibility , improve the life of the million of people who be unable to drive ; boost connectivity for rural community across the country ; transform freight , be it long haul or last mile ; and above all , make our road safe . as the Secretary of State know , insurance premium have be go through the roof recently — the cost be astronomical . what impact do he expect automated vehicle to have on insurance premium ? if the hon . Gentleman will allow I to make a little progress , I will speak about how one centrepiece of the Bill and of our approach be the safety not just of the automate vehicle and its occupant but of other road user , particularly vulnerable road user . I will come on to that point ; if the hon . Gentleman do not feel that I have cover it , he should feel free to intervene again . we be on the cusp of a transport revolution , and Britain be very much at the wheel of that decision . british company be develop the self - drive technology ; british lawyer be develop the robust new legal framework that be be use ; and british parliamentarian in this House and the other place can now agree regulation widely see as among the most comprehensive in the world . the goal be clear : we want to make this country the natural home for the self - drive vehicle industry , and this Bill be the next stop on that journey . it will not surprise my right hon . friend that I be speak up for Milton Keynes on this subject . this be a huge global opportunity for Britain , worth £ 350 billion , and Milton Keynes be often the testbed of this technology . it be a beautiful , vibrant city that be go place — except perhaps in the eye of the producer of last night ' s " EastEnders " — so do he agree that when we get this technology , we will be able to roll it out because we have test it in place such as Milton Keynes ? I thank my hon . friend for speak powerfully for his constituency . he be right : those develop this technology will want to roll it out carefully and thoughtfully , and they will want to do that in specific place in the United Kingdom . he have just make a powerful bid for Milton Keynes to be at the centre of that . gear Britain up for a self - drive future have be the work of year . in 2015 , our world - lead code of practice enable self - drive vehicle trial in the UK . we pass the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 , which codify insurance in this area for the first time and recognise the importance of that , as the hon . member for Carmarthen East and Dinefwr ( Jonathan Edwards ) say early . in that same year , we kick off a Law Commissions review on a legal and safety framework for self - drive vehicle — rise — let I just set out what that review do , then I will take an intervention from the hon . Gentleman , who be an esteemed member of the Select Committee . it convene legal mind from across the country , launch three round of public consultation , sift through hundred of write response and produce more than 70 recommendation , which now underpin this legislation . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way . these be really important point , as be the clarification seek by the hon . member for Carmarthen East and Dinefwr on insurance liability . can I ask the Secretary of State about the arrangement for the compensation of victim of any collision that be cause by uninsured automate vehicle ? he mention the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 , but that legislation do not mention this point . this Bill represent an opportunity to address that . will the Secretary of State set out how we be go to do that , or be we miss an opportunity ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise that point . we have arrangement in place for vehicle with human driver who be uninsured , and we be work with the Motor Insurers ' Bureau on the arrangement that will be in place . I would envisage analogous arrangement for self - drive vehicle that be uninsured , to make sure that if they be involve in accident , any victim of those accident be able to receive reimbursement in the same way as happen now for the victim of an uninsured driver . we already have arrangement , and I would envisage analogous arrangement . we be already have those conversation , but if the hon . Gentleman have more to say on that , either today or in Committee , I will be delighted to hear from he — rise — I be happy to hear from he again now . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for that clarification , but this be a whole new world where we will be rely on AI , software and so on . how would an insurer prove that a vehicle be be drive autonomously rather than by a driver ? under the provision of the Bill , would the insurer have access to the datum so that they could analyse it and see whether an individual be in charge of a vehicle or whether it be be drive autonomously ? I will come on to that in my speech , but I will answer the hon . Gentleman ' s specific question . from the point of view of any person need to make a claim , the insurer will be liable whether the vehicle be in self - drive mode or the user be in charge . what happen subsequently , regard whether the manufacturer , the software provider or whoever have to pony up the money , be a matter for the insurer to argue about with they . that will not impact the victim , who will be pay by the insurer . on the hon . Gentleman ' s important point about datum , we discuss this last week when I meet a roundtable of those involve in the industry , include road safety campaigner and those in the insurance industry . the Bill will ensure that the datum can be share , and the insurance industry be keen for that to happen so that it can properly price the risk . I will say more about this when I talk about the safety framework , but there be a real opportunity here because most road traffic collision be cause at least in part by human error . the track record of self - drive vehicle show that this be an opportunity to improve road safety , which be important not just for those who use vehicle but for other road user . there be a balance to strike here . we need to capture that benefit but also ensure that we do not leave anyone expose without protection , as the hon . Gentleman rightly set out . on the point the Secretary of State have just be discuss , presumably the detail of all journey undertake by automated vehicle will be record . where will that datum be store , and who will have access to it ? could someone access that information for non - drive reason — for example , someone involve in divorce proceeding or an employer in an employment tribunal ? my right hon . friend should note that datum for these purpose will be protect in the usual way . datum have to be use for the purpose for which it be gather . there be legal process for who have access to it , as well as those we will set out specifically for drive purpose . the other thing he mention will be govern by the usual law that govern the use of datum . I do not want to dwell on those specific , but they be already cover by exist datum protection legislation for the device that people have in vehicle to monitor their progress or for mobile phone . I would like to start with safety . anyone step into a self - drive vehicle will reasonably ask : " can this car consistently drive safety ? will the law protect I if there be an accident ? be the manufacturer regulate and can they be hold to account ? " under this legislation , the answer to each of those question will be yes . the Bill have be build on a bedrock of safety , protect not just the driver inside the car but road user outside the vehicle . as I mention in answer to the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , I chair a roundtable with road safety group last week and explain how we be hold self - drive vehicle to a high safety standard than the average human driver , guide by principle we will soon consult on ; how these vehicle must meet rigorous technical requirement before roll off production line and be authorise for our road ; and how we will tackle mislead marketing , with new offence for company that seek to blur the line between true self - driving and driver assistance . that get to the nub of the point . because these vehicle be go to be automate , they will be govern by an algorithm write by a human being somewhere remote from where an accident might occur . how do we determine whether the primary purpose of that algorithm be to protect the person in the car or someone outside the car , such as a pedestrian or a child cross the road ? how do the algorithm make a choice in those circumstance ? we will consult on the statement of safety principle , which will set out the govern principle of the legislation . on the specific , this will be about make sure that the manufacturer — those who create the software and those who put the car together — have rigorous process for testing and decision - making . those system will have to be authorise to be use in our car , and it will be important to look at their datum and their track record . as I say , in real - world situation where these vehicle be be use — for example , in California — the evidence suggest that they have a very good safety record that be much well than that of human driver . there be a big opportunity here to have a safe road environment , not just for the user of the vehicle but for other road user . I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman have have the opportunity to ride in a self - drive vehicle , but the datum they collect of their surrounding be interesting . my personal observation be that the space they give when pass a cyclist , for example , be a lot more generous than that I have see many human driver give . of course , those parameter be go to be set and regulate , and people will have to be assure that the vehicle be safe before they be on the road . ultimately , the manufacturer will be legally responsible if they turn out not to be . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way a second time . I agree entirely that , overall , road will be safe with automated vehicle , but there will still be accident . my question be specifically about where there be an accident and there be a choice to be make about protect the person inside the car and injure someone outside the car . how do we determine what take priority in those circumstance ? we will consult on the safety principle , but with some of this stuff we have to look at the way the vehicle make decision . we can not possibly legislate for every single set of circumstance . in the same way , when there be a collision involve a vehicle with a human driver , the driver will make the good decision they can in the specific circumstance . sometimes those situation lead to legal conflict and then people have to make a judgment . we can not legislate for every single one of those circumstance in advance . what we can do be make sure there be robust system that make good decision base on the good datum , and then look at the track record . we will also set up a regulatory system whereby any accident involve an automate vehicle will be properly investigate . the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . it be essential with this legislation that we earn the public ' s trust and win their confidence . that be one of the reason why we have be so clear , and why we accept the amendment in the other place , about put safety at the forefront of the Bill . if people be not persuade of that , this technology will not make much progress . rise — I will take an intervention from my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) and then make some progress before continue to take intervention . the Secretary of State be take a safety - first approach to this legislation , and that seem to be the will of the House . I have use a driverless vehicle operate by Waymo , a driverless uber - style service in the United States . he will know that those vehicle have more camera — more eye — look in more direction more of the time than it would be possible to achieve even with 100 driver sit in a single vehicle . my concern be whether , in his effort to put safety first , he be compromise the potential for economic growth . in America , most of the force for change with automate vehicle be be drive by the lead global technology company . what discussion have he have with those company in preparation for the Bill ? how comfortable be they with the Government ' s approach ? I have discuss the legislation with a number of those company — both UK company and those in the US — and I be pleased to assure my hon . friend and the House that they too recognise that safety be incredibly important . they all understand that they have to be able to operate within a legal framework set by legislator who be ultimately accountable to the public , and that they have to take the public with they . as ever with these thing , whatever the track record of exist vehicle and driver , because this be new technology , people will be sceptical about it , and anything that go wrong will have a bright light shine on it . the industry be very aware of that and , I think , very happy to work with we on those issue . rise — I will take one more intervention and then I will make some progress . I will be honest , Mr Deputy Speaker : I be not very technically minded . I like the idea of a manual car with five or six gear and reverse . in the rural community that I live in , I be very happy with that . I have a bit of hesitation about automate vehicle . think about young driver — this be really important , because the Secretary of State mention blurred line — we have to make sure that everyone who learn to drive have full capacity to drive any vehicle , and do not think they can get into an automate vehicle and just sit there and do nothing . it be really important that everyone be subject to the same rule . can he confirm for anyone who think that in future they will be able just to sit in the back of the car that that be not the case , and that they will have to learn to drive in the way that we all have over the year ? I will come to that in a second — it will become clear in the next section of my speech — but I can tell the hon . Gentleman that the Bill be about give people choice . if people want , as many will , to carry on drive their exist vehicle in the traditional way , that be absolutely fine and no one be go to try to stop they . to be very clear , the hon . Gentleman can carry on drive for as long as he want to and be safe to , and no one be go to try to stop he . certainly , I be not go to try — I wouldn ' t dare . on the legal concern — this will address the point about the drive test , too — the Bill redefine our legal relationship with road transport . as soon as someone turn on a self - drive feature , legal responsibility for how the car drive will transfer to an authorised self - drive entity , or ASDE — not a very catchy acronym , admittedly , but that be what they be call . that could be a manufacturer or a software developer but , crucially , it will not be the human driver , who will assume a new status . as a user in charge , they will still need to ensure that the car be roadworthy , and they will need to reassume control if necessary . that answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question : someone will still need to be in possession of a full drive licence and able to reassume control of the vehicle if require , but they will be protect by law from any offence while the car be drive itself . some journey , either in private car or on self - drive transport , will be fully automate , and a human will never need to take control ; they will be , in essence , a passenger . my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) mention the example of Waymo car in the US . those be operate as taxi , with no driver present , and the human be never expect to take control ; it be class as a " no user in charge " journey . in those circumstance , someone would not need a drive licence , because they would never be expect to drive the car , in the same way we be not expect to drive a taxi or private hire vehicle . those legal concept will have a seismic impact . this be the future , and it be both quite exciting and quite scary . we have to get our head around it and make sure that we get this right . on what the Secretary of State have just be describe , be it basically the difference between someone take a taxi and drive their own car ? if there be an accident in a taxi , the taxi company be responsible , not the passenger . if someone be use a vehicle for a " no user in charge " journey for which they be , in effect , the passenger and there be an accident , it will be totally the responsibility , in all circumstance , of the person operate the vehicle . where someone who be drive the car for part of the time switch on the self - drive feature and something happen while those feature be activate , that will be not their responsibility but that of the manufacturer or the software developer . if someone be in control of the vehicle and the self - drive feature be not activate , they retain responsibility . one of the thing that we will have to do be educate people about the difference , and we be be clear to manufacturer that there be a big difference between a self - drive feature and driver assistance . under driver assistance , the driver be still fully legally responsible for the vehicle , but with some technological help ; when the self - drive feature be activate , they no long have legal responsibility . be there not potential for a legal conflict between a driver who say , " I be in self - drive mode , " and a company that say , " no , it be switch off " ? do the Secretary of State see that it might be very difficult to establish what happen in such circumstance ? potentially , but that be exactly why the early question about datum be very important . these vehicle generate a huge amount of datum and one part of the authorisation process will be make sure that that data be properly manage and there be proper access to it by the investigator of any potential accident and the insurance industry to establish exactly what have happen in such circumstance . rise — I give way to the Chairman of the Select Committee on Transport . I want to build on the question from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) about the situation where a driver be in control of the car at some point and at other point the car be autonomous . that will presumably result in driver become less experienced , as they will not accumulate as much knowledge and experience of driving . when the automated feature switch off and the driver need to take control , those will be potentially immediate and challenging circumstance . be my right hon . Friend assure that the drive test and refresher course will give driver sufficient capacity to take over in those circumstance ? my hon . friend raise a good point . I be very comfortable with the drive test ; it continue to be update to make sure driver be familiar with feature such as satnavs , and the new technology will be add . the wide question about how often driver drive and how experienced they be of course arise now . someone can take a drive test and not drive very much but occasionally hire a vehicle , and we hold they to the same standard as those who drive day in and day out ; they be still responsible . there might in these circumstance be a question about whether it would be sensible for people to take refresher course and do further training , and we will want to monitor that and determine whether we should legislate for it or issue guidance . it be an interesting point for we to keep an eye on . as well as the legal issue , make drive more convenient in this way also make it potentially much more accessible , by for example give those who can not drive at the moment , such as the 340 , 000 people register blind or partially sighted , new option to travel independently , open door to economic and social opportunity that have thus far remain closed . interestingly , in the United States , where this technology have be roll out early , it be those group who have be most vocal in argue for the technology , because it change their life for the well and open up their opportunity . the third area be learn and enforcement . this technology will get strong , smart and safe over time . the safety datum will be collect by the vehicle , monitor by its operator and scrutinise by a Government regulator , which mean we can take enforcement action when thing go wrong or through sanction and suspension if a company withhold datum . the Bill also include measure to investigate incident independently and ensure that lesson be learn . I have speak about the context behind the Bill and address some of the key component and will turn now to some of the benefit self - drive vehicle will bring . this be an exciting Bill about an exciting future . I have listen carefully to what my right hon . friend have say about who will ultimately be responsible if there be an accident . my understanding be it will always be the manufacturer and will never be the person who own the car . in my constituency , as in many other , large number of people like modify their car and I be sure when autonomous vehicle be introduce people will want to modify those as well . they might change they in way that ultimately slightly limit or diminish some of the safety feature put in when the car be build , so who will be ultimately responsible in such circumstance ? People may make modification without know the implication , potentially , for diminish the safety of the car . will the manufacturer still be responsible when the car be modify , or will it be the owner ? my hon . friend raise a very important point that we must make sure be cover . clearly , if people make modification that alter the functioning of the self - drive feature of the vehicle , we would either have to say that that be not acceptable or they would have to accept that the vehicle be no long self - driving . there would need to be rule . the vehicle will go through an authorisation process to go on the road , and there will be thing that people will be allow to change and thing that they will not . I suspect that manufacturer will be very clear that they will no long be responsible for a self - drive vehicle if someone have modify it . as long as that be clear , that be fine , but people will have to accept that , as car become more technological with more technology build into they , the day of be able to tinker around with they under the bonnet and alter thing will be long past if we want that technological stuff to kick in . my question be not just about modification that may change the safety of the car but about any modification . if someone who own an iPhone change the screen , it be no long under manufacturer warranty even though that do not affect how it work . if someone have modify their car and it do not affect a safety feature but there be then an accident , will the manufacturer be able to say that the car have be modify and that , even though the safety feature be unchanged , it be therefore no long its responsibility ? will the liability pass to the owner if the manufacturer decide it have nothing to do with it ? these car will have to be authorise by the regulator to go on the road , but my hon . friend make the good point that , as part of that process , what the user of the vehicle can and can not do need to be clear . I suspect there will be very limited thing that they could do without affect the operation of the vehicle , but it be good to put on the record that in the information provide by both the manufacturer and the regulator we must be clear about what the user of the vehicle can and can not do to ensure it can be drive safely . despite Britain have some of the safe road in the world , the level of serious injury and road death remain too high . that could soon change . if we can eliminate driver error , which be involve in 88 % of road collision , we could get to the point where self - drive vehicle be a game changer for road safety : they do not drink and drive , they do not get stress or distracted , they do not speed , get tired , bend the rule of the road or push their luck . self - drive vehicle will save life and we can not ignore the economic impact either . accord to industry estimate , 40 % of new car will by 2035 have some self - drive capability . this be a grow global market , Britain ' s share of which could be worth £ 42 billion and generate 38 , 000 skilled job in area range from cyber - security to AI , and thank to Government support , our self - drive vehicle industry be not only thrive but recognise the world over . I thank the Secretary of State for his reassurance about safety . I do not think it be all one - sided , because another aspect of safety be cyber - safety , which we do not need to worry about with a traditional car . automated vehicle be extremely vulnerable to cyber - attack from hacker and potentially from terrorist , especially as the software and technology age . what be the Government go to do ? be they go to commit to establish the necessary regulation to ensure cyber - security for automate vehicle be robust and that protection continue over the lifetime of the vehicle ? the simple answer be , yes , we be go to do that . the hon . Gentleman be right to raise cyber - security as an issue , and it be of course an issue today , because many car today have electronic feature from keyless entry to navigation system . exist car be vulnerable to be hack . Cyber - security be important and we and the industry be work with the National Cyber Security Centre . I agree that cyber - security will be very important , but it already be important . I agree with what the Secretary of State say about tinker and that nullify any insurance , but we have also just experience the Horizon scandal , where the manufacturer themselves have access to the technology . what security do driver have from the designer of the software govern these car cover their own back ? one of the thing we will have in place be a duty of candour . we will also set up a regulatory process with investigation of every self - drive vehicle involve in an incident . importantly , manufacturer will be legally oblige to have that duty of candour to disclose the information , so that these issue can be get to the bottom of . the hon . member raise a specific case that I will not comment on , and there will no doubt be learning from that case , but the regulatory approach we be set up will deal with the issue he just raise . will the Minister give way ? let I make a bit of progress ; I want to try to get to a conclusion , because other wish to speak , but I will try to get back to my right hon . friend in a sec . in 2019 , Google ' s Waymo make the UK its first european engineering hub for self - drive technology . Bosch and ZF , among other , be invest in the UK , draw by our highly skilled workforce . CAM Testbed UK , a unique cluster of five facility between London and the west midland , have receive £ 200 million of Government and industry funding , and we have put £ 66 million into scale up self - drive mobility idea , from bus in Scotland to hgv in Sunderland , with a furth £ 150 million announce as part of our advanced manufacturing plan . we do not want to lose momentum , and we want to make sure that we push the industry to realise the full benefit of this technology . I hope that the Bill bring certainty to investor , clarity to manufacturer , confidence to the public and demonstrate Britain ' s strong commitment yet to a self - drive future . before I conclude , I will take an intervention from my right hon . friend . the Secretary of State have be generous in give way . just to clarify the point , there could be circumstance where a vehicle be in fully auto mode , but the owner bear some responsibility . for example , if an automate vehicle be on full auto and be involve in an accident , but it be then discover that all the tyre be without tread , surely in those circumstance the owner would bear some blame . I set out at the beginning that in circumstance where a user be in charge — where they be not purely a passenger with a company provide a taxi or private hire service — and the vehicle be in self - drive mode , the manufacturer or software provider be responsible for the conduct of the vehicle , but the user in charge be responsible for such thing as the physical condition of the vehicle and the tyre , and they retain that responsibility . the balance of which of those thing cause the accident will be determine in exactly the same way as currently . in conclusion , as I think the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) set out , self - drive vehicle will provoke excitement from some and nerve from other , but for most of we , it be a combination of the two . clearly it be an opportunity , but there be some risk . I know that first - hand , not only have visit California - base Waymo and ride in one of its self - drive vehicle , but have do a journey from my departmental office to this House in a self - drive vehicle design by the british company Wayve . it be interesting , as it go expertly through busy street and respond quickly to thing . it be a rainy day and a lot of people be dart in and out of the traffic — probably not sensibly — but the car respond safely . I realise the enormous potential of this technology , not just as a grow economic sector , but for a future where transport be safe , more convenient and more accessible . this Bill be a crucial step towards that future , and I take great pleasure in commend it to the House . let I start by confirm labour ' s support for the legislation and the principle behind it . automate vehicle technology , once the preserve of science fiction , be advance at pace . fully autonomous vehicle be already be test on our road by world - lead UK company . the progress they have make be truly something to behold . continue that progress and get this technology and the safety standard around it right be so important . it have huge implication for road safety , vehicle accessibility and our economy , so Labour agree that it be vital we have a proper regulatory framework in place to ensure these technology be introduce in a safe and accessible way that contribute positively to our economy . on that basis , we welcome the Bill and its effort to set safety principle for these vehicle and clear rule around marketing to stop consumer be mislead about the autonomous capability of the vehicle be sell to they . however , there be still room to go far and to ensure that these vehicle ' introduction be a public good and not in any way a destructive force . a few month ago , I also visit Wayve in King ' s Cross , a UK company do pioneer work to develop autonomous technology for vehicle , which it be already test on our road . it be an experience , sit in a vehicle with no driver , no control and no clue which direction it will go in next , and I admit that I wonder , as I be be whisk about central London in all sort of direction without any input or control from I , if that be not how the Secretary of State feel sit around the Cabinet table most week . turn to the safety benefit of autonomous vehicle , it have be estimate that road collision cost our economy as much as £ 43 . 2 billion in 2022 and that 85 % of road crash involve an element of human error . automated vehicle can play a huge role in reduce human error , avoid tragic accident and help to reduce the burden on the state in the process . the need to do more to tackle these death and injury on our road can not be overstate . the last Labour Government cut road fatality by almost 50 % while in office , but there have be only an 8 % reduction since 2010 . the Bill come to we in a vastly improve state from the other place , thank to pressure from my labour colleague there . as a result of their effort , the Bill explicitly target a safety standard for autonomous vehicle equivalent to or high than a careful and competent human driver , as it rightly should . the statement of safety principle that the Secretary of State must make follow the passage of the Bill will now also be subject to proper parliamentary scrutiny . that be important progress , and we be grateful for the Government accept those important amendment . we be address important safety and regulation issue , but do my hon . friend share my concern about potential job loss ? almost a million people be employ in the logistic sector , include driver , delivery driver and so on . I know the Bill be not concerned with alternative employment , but I see the effect of deindustrialisation in my area . do she share my concern about the potential job loss if this legislation be not do in a sensible way ? it be typical of my hon . friend to raise such an important and pertinent point . I will come to it shortly in my speech . it be a shame that much of the important work still to do on this safety regime will be set out far down the line , rather than be debate today in the Chamber . we will look closely at the detail when it come to see how the standard be define in practice , and I welcome any insight from the Government today to reassure colleague on that . for instance , what level of fault will be allow for an autonomous vehicle compare with a standard practical driving test , if any at all ? this technology do not just offer potential road safety benefit . it be estimate that disabled people in the UK take around 38 % few trip than non - disabled people . automate vehicle could help address that gap by unlock a world of opportunity for those who can not or struggle to drive and for those hold back from that opportunity by the inaccessibility of too much of our public transport network . secure those benefit will mean ensure that access to these vehicle be not limit just to the extremely wealthy , and that the interest of disabled people , who be currently five time more likely to be injure by a vehicle than non - disabled pedestrian , be at the heart of the development of these technology from the very start . I would welcome the Secretary of State set out how he will ensure that disabled people and disability - lead group will be properly consult as these vehicle be introduce to our road . I suppose , if I be be honest , that I be a bit of a sceptic in this matter . I be not a petrolhead , by the way , but many of my constituent love their car , love their vehicle , and love the opportunity to work under the bonnet . I be always conscious that we may see a move towards automate vehicle all across the country , irrespective of what people think . be it the shadow Minister ' s intention to ensure that people will always have choice ? if she do , that be the right way . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention and remain impressed that he have something to say on this issue , as on so many other . it will of course remain the case that should people wish to drive their car , they will be free and able to do so . I think it will be a long time — indeed , the industry have predict it will be several decade — before the number of automate vehicle outstrip the number of vehicle with driver on our road . as my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) mention , there be one major area that the Bill do not address , and which we have not consider in any meaningful capacity , which be the potential impact on job from automated vehicle . as a South Yorkshire MP , I be all too familiar with the economic impact of deindustrialisation . far too many town and city across the north have already suffer enough from lose livelihood , with the social fabric of their community rip apart as a new economic model leave they behind . we simply can not afford to make those same mistake again . that be why Labour have be clear that artificial intelligence and automation must be harness as a public good — one that deliver social benefit , grow the economy and support job rather than destroy they . that be why , during its passage through the other place , my Labour colleague attempt to amend the Bill to establish an advisory council that would ensure the Government consult on the introduction of these vehicle with not only industry representative and road safety expert , but trade union . the Government oppose that amendment . from the way this Government have politicise the ongoing industrial dispute on our railway and minister ' failure to even sit down with union representative , we have already see just how important it be to have proper engagement with workforce representative , as well as just how far this Government will go to avoid do it . I would welcome an explanation from the Secretary of State as to why he be so opposed to the idea of speak to expert and trade union representative about the introduction of such sensitive and consequential technology . will he also say what step he will take to ensure this technology create job , rather than destroy they , especially in the area of the country where low - pay work dominate ? it be in exactly those area , which still feel the ravage of deindustrialisation , that job in drive , warehousing and logistic dominate — all job that face the high risk from automation . unless the Government be prepared to play an active role in how we transition our economy , it be exactly those area , like my constituency in South Yorkshire , that will be hit all over again . I have talk a lot about what the Bill be , Mr Deputy Speaker , but allow I a minute to talk about what it be not . as the Secretary of State well know , his Government have promise we all sort of transport legislation over the year that they have fail to make parliamentary time for . this Bill be not his long - promise rail reform . it be not legislation to properly regulate e - scooter , e - bike or drone , to set minimum standard for taxi , to extend franchising for bus , or to strengthen the power of the Civil Aviation Authority — legislation that have be promise time and again by this Government , without any intention of actually deliver it . I will close by point out the irony that the one major piece of transport legislation in this parliamentary Session be a Bill on driverless car bring forward by a driverless Government who be run out of road . I call the Chairman of the Transport Committee . it be a great pleasure to be able to contribute to this debate . I should flag that the Transport Committee conduct an extensive inquiry on self - drive vehicle and publish our report on the subject last year . our principal recommendation be to bring forward legislation to give the industry and investor the certainty to continue their work . we be very pleased indeed that the Government have take on board our central recommendation and bring forward this Bill . we commend the Law Commission for the background work it do to provide the legal underpinning . hopefully there will be sufficient time for the Bill to reach the statute book before we get to the general election . have it not be bring forward , there be a real danger of a miss opportunity . the UK have be a lead player in the development of this global technology , but there be no certainty that that would continue . one message we hear loud and clear from the sector be that it need the regulatory framework and that certainty to allow further investment to take place , so we be , as I say , very pleased that that be happen . to give some idea of the scale , figure from the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders estimate that by 2040 , the annual economic impact to the country will be £ 66 billion . my fellow Select Committee member , the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , raise legitimate concern about the risk to job from this new technology , but there be an upside : 12 , 000 new direct job in automotive manufacturing , and more than 300 , 000 additional job in the wide economy , again use smmt figure . there be economic opportunity — job opportunity — provide by this new technology . it be always difficult to adjust to change in the economy . I often use the analogy that a few decade ago , lot of people be employ in manufacturing typewriter ; now there be hardly anyone in that industry , but other job opportunity arise . that will also be the case in this sector . he be not in his place now , but I echo the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) that the city of Milton Keynes have be at the forefront of the research and development and the testing of this technology in the UK , and long may that continue . as other speaker have say , the advantage be not just economic ; this technology also widen the accessibility of transport for many people who be , for various reason , inhibit at the moment . that wide social value may be more difficult to quantify in monetary term , but will be increasingly valuable . more generally , this technology will widen the transport choice available . self - drive vehicle will replace some journey make purely by car , but will also be part of an integral transport system where a self - drive vehicle may pick up people from a railway station , bus station or airport to complete their journey . there be many , many upside to this legislation . I want to highlight a few other concern we have during our inquiry , some of which the Government have already address . the first be on safety . we very much welcome the amendment put forward by the Government in the other place to introduce a more certain and wide definition of safety ; we set out concern in our report that the broad definition of a self - drive vehicle as be as safe as a " competent and careful human driver " be just a bit too vague and weak . the amendment that have be bring forward in the Lords to ensure proper consultation not just with the industry , but more widely with road safety stakeholder , be very welcome , while the change in the parliamentary procedure from a negative to an affirmative resolution will give it great clarity . we very much welcome that . I will raise two particular safety issue . one , which I mention in my intervention on the Secretary of State , be the need to ensure that driver have the relevant level of skill and experience to intervene when the technology require they to do so . as I say , those instance will obviously be immediate and often in challenging condition , and will require skill over and above the general driving competency and knowledge as to what a driver ought to do in those circumstance . I do not think it be necessarily something to include in the Bill , but , as the Government look at the consultation on safety , I strongly urge they to look at what change to the drive test may be appropriate , and even at wide encouragement for everyone to have refresher course . I think most driver — I include — would be terrify at the prospect of resit our drive test , as we have probably build up many bad habit over the year . there be , perhaps , a wide point about ensure that driver remain competent , but this new technology do introduce specific new circumstance that need to considered . the second safety - relate issue be about ensure that mot test be up to date so that they properly capture all safety - critical technology . in the future , camera , sensor , software and other technology will be as safety - critical as tyre , brake and other mechanical part that be currently assess . again , I urge the Government to look ahead and perhaps redefine what be encapsulate by the mot . relate to that be a concern raise with I by small garage about ensure that they still have a fair chance of carry out mot . as the technology become ever more sophisticated , there be a risk that the original equipment manufacturer will have a monopoly on maintain software and related equipment and that only their garage will be able to carry out such work . there a wide point — this be not just about self - drive vehicle — about ensure that the full spectrum of operator in the car repair and maintenance sector have fair access to do that work . I will also raise two point relate to insurance . my friend and colleague from the Select Committee , the hon . member for Easington — he be no long in his place — mention datum sharing . I welcome the fact that datum sharing be reference in the Bill and that its scope will be set out in secondary legislation . it be important for the insurance industry to be able to capture the full picture of driver behaviour and the behaviour of vehicle in this new world . that will not be limit to collision , where the insurer will need to know what happen ; there will be other injury for which datum must be available — say , a self - drive vehicle may brake suddenly , which result in a whiplash injury or related concern . as a probe suggestion , be there a case for put in the Bill a requirement for consultation with the insurance industry on the concept of datum sharing , similar to the one that Government have set out for the setting of safety parameter ? I will leave that with my hon . friend on the Front Bench to consider . the second insurance concern be raise by the Motor Insurers ' Bureau about where we have what might be call a " black swan " event , with a significant co - ordinate cyber - attack that instruct many vehicle simultaneously to behave in a way that could cause mass public injury . the instruction might be to drive at high speed and turn sharp right into a crowded pedestrian area . the concern be that , as thing stand , the absence of a mutualisation of risk could lead to such a level of claim that it would bankrupt the car insurance sector . in property , there be an equivalent backstop to cover the event of such terrorist activity . some think need to be give to that . again , it probably go wide than purely self - drive vehicle , because , as the Secretary of State mention , the technology be often already embed in car and could be hack by a malevolent actor . the insurance industry be concerned about that , and I urge the Government to consider that perhaps not necessarily in the Bill but as part of wide reform . notwithstanding those concern and question , this be a welcome Bill with huge upside economically and socially . as the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) put it succinctly , it be an exciting new world , but for many people it be a scary new world , and we have a duty to bring the public with we . there be many area where transport be already automate and people accept it and be quite relaxed about it . they will get on a get on a dockland light railway train , which be automate , and aircraft flight be now 95 % automate . in Milton Keynes , we have delivery robot go along the pavement and no one bat an eyelid about they . but as we see with smart motorway , if the public be not convinced about the safety of new technology , they will not accept it . we all have a duty to make sure that the regulation ensure the safety of the driver and the passenger as well as the wide road - use and pavement - use public . the upside be enormous , but we must bring people with we . I commend the Government for bring forward the Bill , which be incredibly important , and I look forward to see it on the statute book . I call the SNP spokesman . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) , the Chair of the Transport Committee , on which I serve alongside he . he make many good point and I agree with much of what he say . we still have good question about the Bill on technical detail and insurance among other thing , which we will undoubtedly cover in great detail in Committee . his final point about bring the public with we be key . during the Select Committee ' s inquiry , which be reference by the Chair , I bring that up several time with the witness . as the Chair say , we accept thing like the DLR , but that be fix transport ; this be very different . obviously , as we have see with smart motorway , the public may not buy it unless we and the industry be robust in what we be sell they . before I start , I must be honest about my own thought and preconception about autonomous or automated vehicle , as we be call they in the Bill . the kid and science fiction fan inside I look forward to the transport of tomorrow , with futuristic car like those in film such as " I , Robot " , " Minority Report " and " Blade Runner " — although it must to be say that with their current policy the Government be do their level well to deliver the bleak and dystopian future from " Blade Runner " . " back to the Future " tell we that that we would have fly car by 2015 , but perhaps " the Jetsons " be more accurate with its version of 2062 . grow up , my favourite have to be " Knight Rider " , where David Hasselhoff play — [ interruption . ] yes , I be show my age . well , " the Jetsons " be from 1962 , so hopefully that be on repeat when I be watch it . in " Knight Rider " , Michael Knight very much play second fiddle to KITT the car . in truth , I be not the good passenger in a car . I prefer be in control , no matter how suboptimal that might be for my passenger . I also like drive . as a family , we have be drive electric for three year to reduce our carbon footprint . I also use public transport and active travel a lot more than I use to , but I enjoy drive and would not want my car to drive itself , although I do enjoy the driver aid see in most modern car . I hope we never quite get to the point where automation become compulsory , but I suspect that will be a debate for mps a couple of generation and more from now . this issue and the Bill sound exciting , but the truth be that the Bill be technical and dry — it be less Michael Knight , more Michael Howard . its Committee may not be a barn burner , but none the less it will be important . that be because the Bill be absolutely necessary — indeed , we could say it be long overdue — and will put in place much - need regulation to focus and develop this technology and ultimately enable its full commercialisation and public roll - out . as you might hear I say from time to time , Mr Deputy Speaker , Scotland have be take the lead on autonomous vehicle for some time now . the Forth bridge have be home to one of the main pilot of autonomous vehicle for passenger service , with the CAVForth project operate since last summer . bus build just up the road by Alexander Dennis in Camelon be take thousand of passenger a week over the bridge and into Edinburgh . it be a groundbreaking and world - lead trial , which could help revolutionise public transport in the long term . I can not resist say that it would not have be possible have the Scottish Government listen to the naysayer just over a decade ago and drop construction of the Queensferry crossing . we now have the Forth bridge operational for public transport , with private vehicle transfer to the new crossing . those trial can happen in the good possible environment , with the result that thousand of passenger be cross the Forth every week on an autonomous bus . like Labour ' s shadow Minister , I welcome the Bill , although with some reservation . ultimately , it represent a chance to be ahead of the curve and get the appropriate legislative framework in place before problem arise . it allow that framework to change thing when the future do not deliver what it be suppose to . motoring be a highly regulated area of life , and rightly so , give that we be deal with machine capable of wipe out multiple life with barely a scratch on they . it be mention early in the debate , although perhaps from a different viewpoint , that we have see in the US that problem arise when there be a lack of regulation and proper legislative oversight of the industry . since there be virtually no national oversight , those issue and the regulatory framework have be deal with at state level . we see the danger of such lax regulation with the suspension and collapse of Cruise in four different state . just week after get approval for full operation of its autonomous taxi service in San Francisco , a slew of incident and accident lead it to withdraw all its vehicle from service . the day after the Transport Committee be treat to a trip around London in autonomous vehicle , with driver in the driver ' s seat ready to take over , a friend of mine post clip of his journey in a Cruise taxi in San Francisco . I be not sure I would have be as willing at that point to do the same without a driver ready to take over , because later investigation show that the car have difficulty identify child as pedestrian and risk hit they . in a statement to the Intercept website , it say : " its vehicle sometimes temporarily lose track of child on the side of the road . " that be exactly the type of thing we need to stop here before it happen . we support the approach of legislate before those vehicle be on the road . we do not want to follow the United States into a wild west of autonomy , where it take multiple incident or corporate whistleblower to ensure intervention from the state . that intervention must be build into the entire regulatory process from begin to end . I also want corporate responsibility to be build into the regulatory framework . as we have see with the law on corporate manslaughter , although the legislation may talk a good game , the reality be that prosecution be few and far between , and those who should be hold accountable for action carry out under their watch be instead allow to walk away . I do not want that to happen to the operator of autonomous vehicle that be prove to be at fault , particularly in incident where people be harm or even kill . I would welcome some reassurance from the Minister that where negligence or fault be establish , those ultimately responsible be hold to account through the criminal law . like Labour ' s shadow Minister , we welcome the change make in the Lords to guarantee that autonomous vehicle achieve equivalent or high safety standard than human driver . that only seem right , and it would be a retrograde step if this much - vaunted technology deliver bad result and bad safety than we have now . I ought to be clear that , despite my personal misgiving , I have every confidence that , in the end , automate vehicle will prove to be safe . this area cross legal jurisdiction . as the Minister mention , much of the Bill result from joint working between the Law Commissions of England and Wales and of Scotland , which may at time have be a tricky needle to thread . throughout , the Scottish Government have be keen to work alongside the UK Government to ensure that the Bill be fit for purpose not just for today ' s environment , but to anticipate future development . I be happy that , for the most part — highly unusually , it have to be say — there have be constructive working and pragmatic engagement . I say " for the most part " because , unfortunately , the Scottish Government ' s representation on clause 50 have so far be ignore . clause 50 be hugely problematic because it give the UK Government the power to amend act of the Scottish Parliament in area that be fully devolve , with no recourse to this place or to Holyrood . as it stand , there will be nothing to stop the Secretary of State lay a statutory instrument contain regulation that be counter to act pass at Holyrood , where the UK Government regulation would override the Scottish Parliament ' s Act . that be simple disrespect for devolution and for the devolved institution , and it have happen despite the Scottish Government engage with the UK Government to find a way forward on clause 50 that respect Scotland ' s Parliament as well as this place . there be no objection to have in place a provision to allow exist legislation to be update to account for autonomous vehicle and the implication on traffic law and the highway code , but it be simply not on for the Secretary of State to grab that power from the exist devolve power that rest with Holyrood , rather than accept that Scotland have a different legal framework and work within that reality . like so many folk across Scotland , I be sick and tired of the arrogance of this government when it come to devolution . there be still time for the Secretary of State and his official to sit down with their counterpart in Edinburgh and iron out a solution , particularly give the good work relationship on much of the Bill . I urge he to make that happen , and not have the UK turn this Bill into another constitutional punchbag . we would also like a clear strategy from the Government on the societal and economic consequence of a move towards automation in the transport sector . as the Chair of Select Committee , the hon . member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) , say , these new technology will create new and novel job , but there be 2 . 7 million job in the logistic sector in the UK , and not one of those position will be unaffected ; they will be either lose or change as a result of this new technology . there be around 400 , 000 taxi and private hire driver in the UK . if we end up with autonomous taxi , how many of those driver will remain in job 50 year from now ? what will their job be in 50 year ' time ? the UK have an unfortunate track record of manage technological change and its impact on the employment market . as the labour shadow Minister say , deindustrialisation destroy countless community across these isle , particularly in Scotland and in swathe of the north of England , in part because there be no plan and no thought put into how to deal with and support that transition . the Tories cause untold long - term damage by essentially abandon sector such as manufacture altogether , in favour of put all the UK ' s egg in the service basket . we be see the same thing happen now with the move to green technology , although thankfully in Scotland we have a government commit to a fair transition . automation be a much big issue than the matter we be talk about today . in many way , it be time to have a public conversation about what this mean for society as a whole . change always come with positive and trade - off . an assumption that the public will simply consent and welcome automation without that conversation be potentially gravely misplace . the Government must acknowledge those issue and be prepared to support sector and community if the change that the Bill envisage come to pass . it have take long than anticipate by many for automate vehicle to get to this point , but we can not assume that the advance in technology will continue at the current pace . the pace may increase quickly , and the implication will be with we before we know it . those implication of automation for our society more generally be serious and deep root , and they need a serious response . we broadly welcome the Bill , but it be incumbent upon the Secretary of State and his government to fix clause 50 and engage in real dialogue with the Scottish Government in order to help both party . it be incumbent upon Ministers to explain their approach to the wide societal and economic implication of these measure . I look forward to positive response on those issue as the Bill move through its stage . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . one of the first thing I do when I arrive in this place be to sit on the Bill Committee on the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 . here we be , all these year on , and the technology be make significant improvement . I would like to outline what I see as the important benefit of this legislation , and some of the safety and security issue . I will make the case for why these technology should be develop far . but an advisory council be paramount , as my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) mention , because a wide range of voice must be hear before this legislation be implement . the automotive sector be the jewel in the UK ' s manufacture crown . the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders estimate that its total turnover in the UK economy be £ 78 billion , with £ 16 billion of add value . the industry ' s transition and development be all about the automate connect electric and share vehicle — the aces vehicle — which be the future . as have be say , what they bring be very exciting , but there be also concern . they be a rapidly develop technology . we must ensure that the UK automotive industry have a prime role in its development . accord to the smmt , it be estimate that autonomous vehicle could create a market worth £ 42 billion by 2035 and potentially provide 38 , 000 new job . importantly , autonomous vehicle make road safe — I believe that and I think most in the industry would say it ; and we hear it , too , from the Secretary of State in his opening remark — not just for occupant but for pedestrian and cyclist , provide the right sort of technology be deploy . I have personally see that they remove the opportunity for human error , which cause 88 % of road traffic accident . indeed , research from the SMMT state that if automated vehicle be deploy in substantial number , some 4 , 000 life could be save and 60 , 000 serious accident prevent between now and 2040 . I will come to the benefit of that not just in term of life , but what that mean for the economy . autonomous vehicle can improve connectivity in area where our public transport be fail passenger . with the depopulation of rural area , we can see how challenging that issue can be , include for old people and disabled people more generally . other country , include state in the EU , and most state in the United States , be all move forward with their own autonomous vehicle framework , so the United Kingdom can not afford to fall behind in an industry that could be worth £ 750 billion globally by 2035 . that be why the legislation be so important . the UK automotive industry need to be at the forefront of this rapidly develop technology and we need the legislation to provide the framework to support it . like the Secretary of State and the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Heeley , I have experience driverless vehicle . I be fortunate enough to try it in the Jaguar I - Pace and the technology be incredibly impressive . although we have a driver at the wheel for safety and security , just see the screen and all the information feed determine the passage , speed and direction of the vehicle be extraordinary . this work be not just be do in silicon valley , but around the world by great organisation . I be particularly proud to have as a neighbour WMG , University of Warwick — the Warwick Manufacturing Group — develop these technology , but we also have company such as Oxa at the forefront of develop this work . I say I want to talk about safety . as I articulate with the number I mention early , we will see a significant reduction in the number of accident , and in the number of those kill and seriously injure . in 2018 - 19 I try to introduce legislation call Rowan ' s law . if you will forgive I , Mr Deputy Speaker , I will remind the House that seven - year - old Rowan Fitzgerald be kill on a bus in Coventry because the driver fall asleep at the wheel . he have be drive more than 70 hour a week for three week . Rowan and another passenger be kill in the incident . it be my belief that , with certain assistive technology we be discuss , that would not have happen . while the technology be be develop and roll out , we must ensure that public safety be at the forefront of the Bill . the insurance giant Axa , base on 2022 datum , calculate that accident in the UK cost the UK economy £ 42 billion in lose productivity and wide loss . there be also a cost to the NHS of £ 2 . 4 billion . that be why I commend the work by my Labour colleague in the other place in push the Government to concede on two key safety point . I welcome the Government ' s concession to put the high standard of safety on the face of the Bill . to introduce automated vehicle successfully and safely in the UK , we need to bring all the public with we on the journey . whether as driver or as those share the road with av , the public need accurate knowledge of any new transport technology so that they know how to engage with it safely . it can not be acceptable for manufacturer to mislead or over - promise . equally , manufacturer will benefit from be hold to a fair standard . we therefore need strong , fair and enforceable standard . improve and strengthen safety communication and message on av should be the top priority before we fully deploy av on the road . communication and message about av safety must be write and deliver in a clear and accessible manner . technical knowledge must be translate into language that everyone in society can understand . false and misleading av advertising should be regulate to avoid miscommunication . for example , driver - assistance system should not claim to be self - drive system . we need an objective national safety threshold definition for the safe deployment of av . there be evidently still work to be do on the implementation of the legislation to ensure that safety remain at the forefront of the Bill . the implementation of the Bill should be support by an advisory council , which would advise on its implementation and on the roll - out of self - drive vehicle . it would include trade union representation , emergency vehicle , disabled group , manufacturer , highway authority and other road user , such as pedestrian and cyclist . it be a shame that the amendment that would establish such a group be vote down . I be pleased that we pass amendment 5 , which would ensure representative of road user group be consult when prepare the statement of safety principle . I would like that expand to include the membership of the advisory group , and to put that on the face of the Bill . on security , I have concern , particularly on insurance , that have be air across the House . have listen to manufacturer in recent week about security challenge and the amount of vehicle theft across the country , I be satisfied they be do their utmost to provide vehicle security . there be , however , many out there who be seek to steal vehicle for export . the simple truth be that whatever technology manufacturer come up with , they be overridden , especially by organised crime . that must be a real fear for the future . my hon . friend the Member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) mention the unfold Horizon scandal , the role of the tech company and the cover - up it be allege to have be involve in . what do that mean for the development of vehicle technology ? more generally , we have see the challenge that authority face when try to impose regulation on tech company . just this morning we read about Apple face a fine from the EU of , I think , € 1 . 6 billion . a central concern must be the extent of the control give to big tech , and the transparency that policymaker such as government , as well as other authority , will be able to demand of it . when the hon . member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) mention mot , I be think precisely the same as he . at present many element be not cover by mot , and I wonder how it can be ensure that a vehicle be valid , legitimate and roadworthy when so much of the brain power of that vehicle be drive by new technology . all MOT centre will have to be gear to keep up with technological development to ensure that these vehicle be roadworthy and have fully up - to - date software . as I say early , these development will have a huge impact on the economy and job . other member have ask what they will mean for operator in the logistic sector and , for instance , taxi driver . I urge the Government to adopt our proposal for the establishment of an advisory council to hear from trade union representative and take on board their thought , and , indeed , I suggest that a requirement for trade union representation should be include in the Bill . other Members have also mention the concern raise by industry , such as who will be responsible for software update . how will a victim of a crash involve an automate vehicle be able to prove whether the vehicle be drive autonomously ? perhaps the Minister could clarify those point , and confirm that insurer will have appropriate access to datum to deal with claim of this kind . without doubt , the future lie in automate , connected , electric and shared vehicle , and it be important that the UK have the necessary legislative framework not only for manufacturer but for the development of these technology . the automotive industry contribute an estimate £ 3 billion to UK research and development and be one of our great strength , so we must ensure that we have the legislation to provide for that . in the short term , the benefit of the Bill will be largely in assistive technology — datum and mapping technology , for instance — to make vehicle much safe for their occupant and for other . I welcome those safety benefit and the potential opportunity for the UK automotive industry , but , as I have say , there be real concern about future security . the liberal Democrats welcome the Bill because it take the first step towards the creation of a framework within which automate vehicle can operate safely . the future of sustainable travel lie in such vehicle , and the UK now have a good opportunity to join the grow number of country that be embrace this new technology . the tech sector in the UK be particularly strong , and the Bill should give confidence to investor if we be to develop a self - drive vehicle industry and take full advantage of its potential . a large part of that potential relate to road safety : there be still too many road accident victim , and I believe that automated vehicle can contribute significantly to reduce that number if we get this right . the Bill also have the potential to help we reach net zero . we may need to question , and reduce , individual car ownership in future if we want to hit our net zero target , and automate vehicle may help we to do that . however , the potential of this industry will only be realise if there be a high level of public confidence in the protection that the Bill give to public safety — particularly the safety of other road user such as cyclist and pedestrian , who be more at risk than motorist . there be clearly scope for improve the safety of our road , give that nearly 90 % of traffic accident be cause by human error . many of the accident that involve more vulnerable road user , such as cyclist , result from driver impairment or from driver ' disobey traffic law . evidence emerge from trial of av in San Francisco relate to overall safety improvement be encouraging , but a report of just one thing go wrong will set back effort to secure public confidence in the safety of these vehicle . it will be important to set out very clearly the scope of any trial in the UK . we may receive reassurance from the industry that the technology be be improve continuously , but we must set out our expectation of what the trial can and can not achieve . no technology will ever be 100 % safe . if there be an interaction between technology and the human be sit in the car , there be the potential to override the system . the nature of that interaction be almost a philosophical question , which have not be entirely resolve today , but the Minister have be generous in allow we to raise our concern . during the San Francisco trial , issue arise relate to av ' hinder emergency vehicle and stop in cycle lane , and those need to be address . of course some issue be to be expect in trial , but a repetition of those incident will damage public trust . People must be confident they will not be repeat on UK street , and that will require a robust legal and safety framework which will also cover our trial . the Liberal Democrats welcome the Government ' s concession in change the standard of safety for AV driver so that they will have to meet or exceed the level of safety of careful and competent human driver . the implication of that for drive test have already be mention , and it be important for that discussion to continue . the Bill give we a chance to improve the safety of our road network for the long term , and we should see this as an opportunity to improve accessibility and safety for the public rather than just maintain current standard . automate vehicle also require adequate infrastructure to support they . the poor state of UK road have lead to the high number of pothole - relate call - out for the RAC in the last five year . assurance must be give that improvement in road surface will be make before the roll - out of av . will minimum standard for road quality be set for their use , and will local authority be give the additional resource they will require in order to meet they ? old and more vulnerable people be more reliant on taxi and private hire car , a great benefit of which be a driver who can help they with access . the benefit of increase affordability that av may bring must not come at the cost of reduce access for disabled and vulnerable user , who will also require assurance about access on automate public transport if it be to be completely unstaffed . we have not talk enough about the human input into this brave new world of automate vehicle and about whether , for instance , someone will be available to assist a disabled person use such a vehicle . another area of concern , which have also be mention today , be the attention give to data protection in the Bill . it be of course essential that av can take in datum for machine learning algorithm , which enable they to improve the way in which they navigate . however , a large number of party will inevitably have access to the datum . it will include personal information , include people ' s face . the overlap between commercial and personal datum create issue with access and storage . when datum be share between party , include private company , can we be sure that people ' s personal data be not be monetise for commercial gain ? the Government have not yet give adequate assurance that personal information will be protect . what about insurance ? insurer have say that the datum from av must be readily available to establish liability , but driver must feel confident about how their datum be manage . how the data be store must be open and transparent , and it must be hold independently . establish a clear path of accountability be essential for public confidence . cyclist and pedestrian who do not hold personal insurance should receive fair and swift compensation when they be victim of an accident . further assurance be need that insurance company will receive adequate guidance for such claim . the liberal Democrats welcome the Bill , but I urge minister to carefully review how it will impact on access for disabled and vulnerable transport user . I also encourage the Government to look far at datum protection regulation . we must see this Bill as the beginning of a framework , not the end . the hon . Member be give a list of thing that be absent from the Bill . in my constituency we have autonomous delivery robot , which be currently on pilot ; they be not regulate at all in the UK . be this not another area that the Bill should regulate , in addition to the issue she have raise ? we always try to solve other problem with Bills in front of we , so we have to be a bit careful not to hang something on this Bill that actually go into other area , but new technology create new challenge for all of we . for example , there be safety issue with such delivery , but that probably require a separate Bill . however , it be important that the Government make sure that we have adequate regulation of new technology . as I say at the beginning of my speech , there be many exciting opportunity for technological change , and we must embrace they . if we do not , other country will go ahead , and then we will have they anyway . we must take the public with we , understand the risk and make sure that the huge potential of av be see for what it be , but we must avoid unintended consequence that will lead to the public not come with we , so let we get this right . it be a great opportunity , and let we make sure that we minimise the risk . I do not intend to give a speech in this debate — I just want to intervene — but as there be so few of we contribute , I think I would make a short contribution at the end . I be grateful to you for allow I to do so , Mr Deputy Speaker . I accept that the time have come for this technology . as somebody who work in the transport industry for many year prior to become a Member of Parliament , I accept that we can not stand in the way of this technology and that , overall , our road network will be safe with the advance of autonomous vehicle . none the less , there will be occasion when accident occur , and we have to accept that we will be legislate for how vehicle respond in those circumstance . at the moment , if an accident happen , it happen in real time and people behind the wheel of the vehicle make real - time decision to try to minimise the impact . however , automate vehicle will have to be program in advance to respond in a particular way in certain circumstance — we can not get away from that . the fact be that the people design the algorithms will be do so remotely and well in advance of any accident happen . who be the primary person to consider when an accident take place ? be it the person or person in the vehicle , or be it the pedestrian ? be it a child , if someone be identify as be a child ? be it people stand at a bus stop on the side of the road ? I will come to that soon when I share the concern of one of my constituent who come to see I not about autonomous vehicle , but about an accident at a bus stop . these thing have to be consider and account for when draw up the algorithm that control automate car — we can not get away from that . who will the algorithm protect in such circumstance ? that be one of the challenge that come up when autonomous vehicle be be test in Greenwich . when someone move a chair and put it in front of the vehicle , the vehicle do not identify it . if it have be a child , the vehicle would have run they over . we have to accept that we be go into no man ' s land by advance with this technology . we will need to scrutinise its use , which be why it be right that we be look to set up a panel that will have oversight of this area and advise the Secretary of State . I accept what the Secretary of State have say : if somebody tinker with the software , clearly they put themselves outside of their insurance policy and will be liable for any accident that occur as a consequence . however , both I and my hon . friend the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) have mention the Horizon scandal . at the heart of that scandal be Fujitsu , which try to hide the glitch in its software . we can not run away from the fact that there be a distinct possibility that something like that could happen when we have automate vehicle that be control by software . we must have the ability to scrutinise that and to ensure that people can have confidence in what company say about the software they develop for automate vehicle . we be tell that we will have these vehicle for 20 to 30 year in co - existence with drive vehicle . what be go to happen when accident occur ? I be sure we will be tell , as we be tell in 2018 with the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act , that insurance company will pay up , that these matter will be sort out later and that they have anticipate every circumstance . we hear that time and again with legislation , but its practical application be where we really find out what be go on . when a drive vehicle have a collision with an autonomous vehicle , will the assumption be that the autonomous vehicle be always right , that the drive vehicle must be wrong and that the accident must be due to human error ? I be sure I will be tell that we have allow for that in the legislation , but I be also sure that once it be apply on the road , this will become a big area of contention . I be listen very carefully to the hon . Gentleman , and I be think about the aviation industry . aeroplane be very complicated technology , yet aviation be one of the safe form of travel , because each accident be investigate carefully to avoid a similar catastrophe . do he think that similar structure for investigate accident should be put in place as a safety mechanism ? Scrutiny of accident be go to be important , because we will learn a lot . we can improve safety with this technology — there be no question about that . the question be about the moral argument when accident do happen and how we choose how vehicle should behave in those circumstance . a constituent have come to I about a tragic case of a child be kill at a bus stop . a lorry lose control and swerve into the bus stop , and the child could not escape the vehicle and be crush . it be an absolutely tragic story . my constituent come to see I about design bus stop to make they safe for people stand at the roadside . have lose her child in such tragic circumstance , I commend she for her consideration in want to improve the situation for other . as it be roll out , this technology could prevent vehicle from collide with roadside structure such as bus stop , so I accept that it can improve safety . this be an example of where we might be able to meet my constituent ' s desire to improve safety in such circumstance . this technology will need a great deal of scrutiny . we will learn a lot from the application of this legislation as more and more automate vehicle enter our road network , and an advisory council to consider all aspect of the technology be absolutely necessary . clause 2 say that the Secretary of State must consult , but the list be very limited and put business , include those that design the vehicle and draw up the algorithm , in prime position above road user representative and other concerned individual . the list need to be much wide , and there need to be a statutory body to provide oversight . we be on a steep learning curve and we will learn as we go . I accept that we can not stand in the way of progress , but we must accept that there be serious safety question that require answer . an advisory council of the kind that have be recommend be absolutely necessary . I call the shadow Minister . I thank all member who have take part in this debate . self - drive vehicle offer an enormous opportunity to this country , with the potential to create a market worth £ 42 billion by 2035 , to create 38 , 000 new job and to improve road safety and connectivity in the long term for all road user . as my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) say , labour welcome and support the broad principle of the Bill . I pay tribute to the detailed work carry out over four year by the Law Commission to give we confidence about the framework before we . the UK be lead the charge on self - drive technology in 2018 , but since then , China , the US , France and Germany have overtake we . the Opposition want to encourage innovation in this sector to bring economic and job opportunity to the UK , and to return the UK to its lead role in the development of this technology . labour ' s industrial strategy will do that , as part of our approach to improve the UK ' s prospect . automate vehicle could remove transport - relate obstacle for those live in remote rural community , those live with a disability and old people by reach those who be deny access to public transport . crucially , automate vehicle have the potential to improve road safety for all . eighty - eight per cent of road collision be a result of human error . research by Axa suggest that 3 , 900 death and 60 , 000 serious road traffic collision could be prevent between last year , when it carry out the research , and 2040 through the deployment of automate vehicle . it forecast an 85 % reduction in road incident through the introduction of AV technology , which would in turn benefit the NHS to the tune of £ 2 . 3 billion a year in reduce medical and ambulance cost . however , this all require a proper transition and roll - out from the Government . I mention the importance of safety improvement , and I be pleased that the Government have accept the need for high standard in the Bill . my labour colleague Lord Tunnicliffe and Lord Liddle deserve particular credit for their work in this crucial area . the Government amendment that refer to " careful and competent " driver send a very clear indication to industry , and it rightly put the high standard of safety in the Bill . I be also glad that the Government agree that secondary legislation should be consider under the affirmative procedure . the regulation that follow from the Bill should be subject to proper scrutiny over the year as the technology be develop . a number of concern that be raise in the Lords remain to be address in Committee . the impact on the transport workforce will be crucial in any transition to automation , which be why trade union have a key part to play . work with industry and the union be a key part of a successful industrial strategy , and the union have much to offer in advise on how to find alternative employment for their member and in ensure that the economic benefit of new technology be available to worker , as well as to investor and consumer . as the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Heeley , say , we have already see what happen when this government do not engage with union representative . we must learn the lesson from deindustrialisation to avoid repeat its mistake , which have contribute to grow inequality across our country . we also want to see people with disability , pedestrian , cyclist , business , emergency service and highway authority include in the development of this technology . my hon . friend the Members for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) and for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) both highlight the importance of set up an advisory committee , and I hope they will join I in Committee to revisit this important aspect that should be add to what have already be amend in the Lords . this bring I to accessibility . this Bill ' s framework provide a unique opportunity to support people with disability from the outset by , for example , include consultation with disabled road user on the statement of safety principle . in 2019 , the Government publish their " future of mobility : urban strategy " which highlight that one of the potential benefit of support self - drive vehicle be make travel more accessible to disabled and old people . the Government know that the Bill should specifically include people with disability and old people . it be therefore disappointing that they do not accept Labour ' s amendment in the Lords . I say early that the introduction of automate vehicle bring an opportunity to improve safety for all road user , not least pedestrian and cyclist . the Transport Committee ' s September 2023 report on self - drive vehicle argue that the introduction of self - drive vehicle " should not impose new responsibility on other road user and pedestrian " . will the Minister confirm whether he accept that principle ? speak of area of uncertainty in the Bill , there be other example of a lack of clarity , which be something that the insurance industry will require . I know that much of this will be address in secondary legislation . access to datum be essential to ensure that the insurance model do not break down on issue such as responsibility for software update , on liability during transition from automated to " user in charge " and on the Motor Insurers Bureau deal with case of uninsured vehicle . additionally , clarity be require for those injure by an automate vehicle , as they currently have to prove that automated feature be engage in order to claim compensation . my hon . friend the Member for Eltham make a reasonable point about who will be responsible in the event of an incident and how this can be cover in legislation . the Transport Committee highlight the insurance industry ' s concern in its recent report on self - drive vehicle . uncertainty , and the possibility of endless legal dispute if access to datum be not available , risk increase insurance cost for consumer and deter growth in the market for automated vehicle , so I look forward to delve far into these question with the Minister in Committee . the Bill rightly address concern about false marketing of automate vehicle that have not be authorise . the Government must work with industry to ensure there be a clear communication strategy during the transition to automate vehicle . we have see what happen when communication be negative , through the approach in the medium to the transition to electric vehicle . whether deliberate or otherwise , the messaging from some , not just in the medium , but in government , include the Prime Minister , have delay the time at which many people will benefit from cheap private car , at a cost of £ 13 billion to driver . I hope that Ministers will not repeat the same damaging approach in their messaging on the switch to automate vehicle . labour welcome this Bill as it move through the House . the benefit of automate vehicle be there for all to see , for our economy , through the creation of new job and , crucially , through improve road safety and connectivity . there be a good degree of consensus on the implementation of the legislation . if Labour be give the opportunity to serve after the election , with we in the drive seat , we will power ahead and ensure that Britain really can lead on this exciting new technology . I thank everyone who have contribute to this incredibly enjoyable debate . it be always enjoyable when there be a remarkable degree of consensus across the House . I note that Labour , the Scottish National party and the Liberal Democrats all support this legislation . there be a large degree of consensus on the various issue , with almost everyone who speak agree that this legislation could and should lead to safe road . we all want to reduce the number of accident , injury and death on the road . various member from different part of the country talk about the autonomous vehicle work go on in their constituency : the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) talk about CAVForth in Scotland ; the Chair of the Transport Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) , talk about the work in Milton Keynes ; and the hon . member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) talk about the benefit in Warwick . various member also mention Wayve in north London , and I know that company in my constituency be work on this . get this industry right really be an example of level up . there be also a large degree of consensus that we need to make sure that this technology work for the benefit of vulnerable user . one of the major reason for it be that it offer huge opportunity for people who be blind , frail and so on and can not drive . lot of useful question and point be raise . I spend a huge amount of time nod in violent agreement with what member from the various opposition party be say , such be the consensus . many of the point have be cover in the Bill , which I will go through in detail . various Members mention the need for proper accident investigation . we completely agree on that , because it be vital that whenever a self - drive vehicle be involve in an accident , we need to know why the accident happen and whether , for example , it be a result of the software or the algorithm go wrong . we need to learn from any accident . this be an evolution ; we be not go to get the perfect result and this be go to evolve over the come year and decade . the importance of accident investigation be why we provide in the Bill for an incident investigation function similar to those in other sector , such as aviation , which be mention by the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) . the Secretary of State will have the power to appoint independent accident investigator , who will find out the root cause and make sure that we all learn the lesson . I just want to understand this well , because I might have miss something . be that technology , in essence , like a black box that would be fit within a vehicle , which those investigator could then access ? absolutely , the accident investigator will have the power to get access to the software and technology so that we understand what go wrong . that be a crucial part of this ; we need to understand technically what the cause of any accident be . that be very different from a police investigation into an accident , where they be try to attribute blame to x , Y or z but do not need to understand the root cause . let I turn to some of the most detailed comment . the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , say that the opposition support this legislation . she talk about the importance of job and get that aspect right . Most speaker talk about the benefit for job , with the self - drive sector create as many as 38 , 000 new job by 2035 . a range of new job will arise out of this , not just in the company make self - drive technology , but with conductor on automate service , for example . she worry about the job loss that be come , as do various other Opposition Members , but they be get ahead of themselves ; those sort of impact will be a very long way down the line and this be an evolution in the come year and decade . it be definitely worth think about the issue . the SNP spokesman , the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North , ask what will happen to job in 50 year ' time , but it be not the purpose of this Bill to deal with the situation in 50 year ' time . accessibility be clearly a major issue and we completely agree on it . the Government want to ensure that all part of society , include people with disability , can reap the benefit of self - drive technology . that be why we have anchor our approach in the recommendation put forward by the Law Commissions in their inquiry . their central conclusion be that our focus should be on gather evidence and gain experience , and make sure that this work for disabled people and vulnerable user . the Bill require that the authority grant a passenger permit must consider how the service will lead to improvement in understand accessibility . service provider will then be require to publish regular report on how they be meet the need of disabled and vulnerable user . we be also follow the Law Commissions ' recommendation in establish an accessibility advisory panel to inform the development of national accessibility standard . the Department for Transport already have a statutory disabled user advisory panel . my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South , the Chair of the Select Committee , raise a large number of point . he make comment about " careful and competent driver " be too weak as a definition . it be an ambition rather than a detail , and that take we to the whole point about the statement of safety principle . the ambition of make sure that a driver be safe , careful and competent be in the Bill , but the detail of exactly what that mean will come through in the statement of safety principle , on which we will consult widely . the Secretary of State and I have a meeting with a wide range of user group last week — road user group , road safety group and people from the Royal National Institute of Blind People be at the roundtable . we commit to work with they as we go forward on put together that statement of safety principle . we have also commit in the Bill to consult a range of different group , include road user group , and that could include trade union . we would very much like to hear from they if they have contribution to make on the different aspect of safety that we will be sort out . as this be an evolve technology , a lot of what be in the Bill be high level and quite a lot of statutory instrument will fall from it ; it be necessary to be flexible . consult on develop those si will take until 2026 , so there be a long time to get a lot of the detail right . my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South also say that he want to make sure that driver have the right level of skill and do not forget how to drive . People be deskille be a long way off , but he ask the right question and the Government will keep under review whether we need to do anything on that . he also make the point about make sure that mot test be keep up to date . we have consult on the future of those test , and we will be monitor that and make sure that they be keep up to date . Most member , include my hon . friend , raise the valid point about datum and the insurance industry . Thatcham Research , which do the drive safety work for the insurance industry , be at the roundtable that we have last week , and we commit to work with they in the future . they need to know exactly what datum they can get access to at the time of an accident . the power for that be in the Bill . it will be critical to understand whether the vehicle be in self - drive mode at the time — the " no user in charge " mode — or whether a human be drive , as well as the cause of the accident . that point have be well make , but those issue be already address in the Bill . various hon . member , include my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South , talk about the need to take the public with we ; I agree . it be good to debate the subject here and good that there be a political consensus . we will be do lot of consultation on the subject go forward and will invite everyone ' s input . the Government recently launch PAVE , Partners for Automated Vehicle Education . I launch the initiative at the RAC Club a couple of week ago and it be support by the Government . it aim to educate the public about self - drive car and promote debate about that transport revolution . the spokesperson for the SNP , the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North , make many very good point . I be not usually in such agreement with the SNP on Government policy . we absolutely need to take the public with we . he ask whether it would be compulsory to have an autonomous vehicle , as he want to carry on driving . I can confirm to the House that the Government have no plan to ban driving — not now , not ever . he will be entitle to carry on drive if he wish . self - drive car be entirely voluntary . the hon . Gentleman and other hon . member raise point about international incident , include problem with state - level rule in the US and problem that Cruise have in San Francisco . I agree that we need to learn lesson from all the international incident and that we need strong , clear rule . the whole point of the legislation be to clearly define the legal and regulatory structure , so that we avoid the bad stuff and so that we can learn , improve the system and bring in change as we need they . as I allude to , the Scottish Government have be more than willing to work with the UK Government on the Bill . in fact , they be in complete agreement on many aspect of the Bill , but do the Minister accept that clause 50 be an overstep by the Government yet again ? they be overrule legislation define in the Scottish Parliament , give that Scotland have a separate legal framework . I reassure the hon . member that we have be in contact with Scottish Government official about the Bill over many month , include on this issue , and there have be an exchange of letter . the power in clause 50 be limit to make regulation change or clarify whether , how or in what circumstance a relevant enactment apply to the user in charge of a vehicle , a concept that the UK Government consider to be reserve . the power can amend devolve enactment only to this limited extent . it can not be use to amend enactment more broadly or for any other purpose . I be happy to meet the hon . member if he want to discuss that far . on international rule , many hon . member mention the Horizon scandal and whether big tech company can be trust . they mention the fine Apple have just receive from the EU . those be valid concern . it be imperative that we go on the journey of develop the technology together , so that there be trust between the Government , the regulator , the public and the company themselves . that be why we have introduce a duty of candour , legally require senior management of the company to be up front with the Government about any technical problem or change that could impact safety . we take this so seriously that it be subject to criminal sanction , include prison sentence of up to 14 year if senior management be completely deceptive about what be happen . the work have to be carry out on the basis of openness . this be not a new idea — we have the same legislation in other industry , such as the pharmaceutical industry , where we need a similar duty of candour about the safety of drug . we take the issue very seriously . the opposition spokespeople and the hon . member for Warwick and Leamington talk about the need for an advisory council . we have commit to consult on the statement of safety principle , and most of the issue we have discuss be include in that statement . the legislation also include a duty of monitoring . the Secretary of State will have a legal duty to monitor the development of self - drive autonomous vehicle , include safety issue , and to write a report that every year . Most of the other issue have be cover already . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! ] hon . member be very keen to conclude the debate . the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) , who be no long in his place , say that the legislation should cover delivery robot . I agree with the hon . member for Bath that this legislation do not provide the time or the place for that . there be many different issue concern delivery robot that do not fit within the scope of this Bill . finally , the hon . member for Eltham , who be not originally go to speak but decide to give a speech , say we should ensure that all road user benefit from the legislation . there be no algorithm that decide to run over cyclist or child . the whole point of these vehicle be to make road safe . that will come out through the consultation on the statement of safety principle , but we be already commit to fairness between all road user be at the centre of those principle . safety have to be for all road user , not just the people within the vehicle . the debate have be positive and constructive , with a lot of well make point . I look forward to go through the Bill in Committee where we can discuss issue in more detail . with that , I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . automate Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Automated Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 18 April 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Anthony Browne . ) question agree to . automate Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] : Money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Automated Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State . — ( Anthony Browne . ) question agree to . automate Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] : Ways and Means Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Automated Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) the charging of fee under the Act ; and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Anthony Browne . ) question agree to . business of the House ( today ) order , that at this day ' s sit , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on ( 1 ) the Motion in the name of Secretary Kemi Badenoch relate to the Shared Parental Leave and Pay ( Bereavement ) bill : instruction not later than 45 minute after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order , and ( 2 ) the Motion in the name of Secretary James Cleverly relate to british Citizenship ( Northern Ireland ) bill : instruction not later than 45 minute after the commencement of proceeding on that Motion ; such Questions shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on those motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to those motion or to the motion in the name of Nigel Huddleston relate to High Streets ( Designation , Review and Improvement Plan ) bill : money . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) share Parental Leave and Pay ( Bereavement ) bill : instruction I beg to move , that it be an instruction to the Committee on the Shared Parental Leave and Pay ( Bereavement ) Bill that the Committee have leave to make provision about paternity leave in case involve the death of — ( a ) the mother of a child , ( b ) a person with whom a child be , or be expect to be , place for adoption , or ( c ) an applicant or intended applicant for a parental order under section 54 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008 . the Shared Parental Leave and Pay ( Bereavement ) Bill , introduce by the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) , be support by the Government on Second Reading and enjoy cross - party support from the House . I congratulate the hon . member on bring forward this very important Bill . my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) have also campaign on the issue . as it stand , the Bill would require regulation to be make that remove the continuity of service requirement for bereaved partner so that they be eligible for share parental leave and pay . the Bill aim to provide a parental leave entitlement for bereaved father by provide a share parental leave entitlement , but that be not the only or necessarily the good mechanism available . it be also possible to use parental leave to achieve the Bill ' s objective . there be nobody in the House who do not welcome the legislation and the thought behind bring it forward . I understand — perhaps the Minister can confirm this — that the Bill will not be law in Northern Ireland , and that it will take a process to make that happen . will he outline the process that will ensure that those in Northern Ireland have the same opportunity as those the Bill ? I be very happy to work with the hon . gentleman to ensure that be the case . we will do everything possible to support those effort in Northern Ireland . my official be work to complete a comparative analysis of share parental leave and paternity leave entitlement to establish which mechanism be good to achieve the Bill ' s intent . to ensure we use the well available mechanism to deliver this entitlement , we be seek to broaden the scope of the Bill to include paternity leave . in that way , both share parental leave and paternity leave can be consider in Committee . we be of course work closely with the hon . member for Ogmore on that . what be more , the instruction would enable a Committee to consider amendment that would extend the measure to new parent who have their child through other route , such as adoption or surrogacy arrangement . where possible and appropriate , the Government aim to afford adoptive and surrogate parent similar employment right to those we give to birth parent . employ parent who have their child through adoption or surrogacy arrangement may be entitle to adoption leave and pay , or paternity leave and pay . extend the provision in the Bill to new parent who have their child through those other route be consistent with the Government ' s stance on this issue . I have discuss this motion with the hon . member for Ogmore , and I appreciate his support . I commend the motion to the House . I will just say a few word about the motion ; I be sure the Minister would be disappoint if I do not . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) for his work on this issue . I be pleased to see the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) here too , because they have both be work on this issue with the Minister , and it be very pleasing that we have get to this stage . I commend my hon . friend on his success in achieve Government support . this important Bill will help those in the awful and unimaginable situation of lose a partner when a child be expect . the Minister be right to try to equalise the provision across all circumstance . we look forward to the Bill hopefully be amend in Committee to take on board the intention set out today . we welcome the motion , and we wish it all the good . when Aaron come to my constituency surgery with his three - week - old son , Tim , in his arm — his wife sadly die in childbirth — he have be work for a company for less than six month so he be not entitle to share parental leave . do the shadow Minister agree that this will affect the very small number of people a year in that situation ? it will not be a significant burden on business and the Government , but for the people it affect it will be hugely impactful . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . we have discuss that with the Minister in other debate . the Bill will thankfully affect a very small number of people , but the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that for they it will be an incredibly important advance . on that note , I wish the Bill the good of success in its passage through Parliament . I rise in support of the Minister ' s motion . I thank he for the constructive way in which he , his official and — dare I say it ? — the Government Whips Office have engage with I during the passage of this Bill . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) for his and his team ' s support . as the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) say , this Bill will not impact many people . no one in this House want it to impact many people , because nobody should face what some of our constituent have in recent year and long before . become a parent should be a moment of joy , not a moment of grief and sorrow . I welcome the Minister ' s intervention to broaden the scope of the Bill . it be hugely important to a small number of people , and I look forward to deal with the number of amendment that will come forward when the Bill be in Committee at the end of the month . question put and agree to . british Citizenship ( Northern Ireland ) bill : instruction I beg to move , that it be an instruction to the Committee on the british Citizenship ( Northern Ireland ) Bill that the Committee have leave to make provision for the acquisition of british citizenship by irish citizen , whether bear before or after 31 December 1948 , who be resident in the United Kingdom . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for select this motion . the reason for table it be that the Bill , as currently draft , allow only people bear in Ireland after 31 December 1948 who have be resident in Northern Ireland for five year to register as british citizen . the instruction will allow the Bill Committee to consider amendment that would apply the provision to all eligible irish national of all age who live anywhere in the United Kingdom for five year . the provision to amend the Bill will do that in several way . first , they will make the route available to irish national regardless of how they become irish , and not just those bear in Ireland . those cover by the original Bill will still be include , but the measure will be more generous and fair , in that it will give all eligible irish national a more straightforward pathway to become a british citizen . secondly , there will not be a requirement for an irish national to have be bear after a certain date . the instruction will make it so that people bear on or before 31 December 1948 have the same opportunity to make use of the Bill as those bear after that date . thirdly , qualify resident can be from any part of the United Kingdom , not just Northern Ireland . that will mean that all eligible irish national resident anywhere in the United Kingdom will be able to make use of this important piece of legislation . I again ask member to consider the unique position that irish national hold with regard to the United Kingdom . the Bill will help to reaffirm and reflect that , and will make a real difference to those irish national who also wish to be british citizen . we be confident that the amend route will not undermine the integrity of the system . it be about introduce a more appropriate route for people who could otherwise seek to naturalise . amend the Bill will help we to be more inclusive to all eligible irish national currently resident in the United Kingdom . the Government be clear in our support for the underlie principle of the Bill , and it will have our full support if these suggest amendment be make . I thank the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) for bring the issue to our attention , and indeed for his constructive engagement with I and my official . I look forward to work closely with he to help his Bill safely travel through the House . his Majesty ' s official opposition support the change to the Bill . we outline our reason for support the Bill on Second Reading , and I have nothing furth to add . I thank the shadow Minister for her renew endorsement , and I thank the Minister , in particular , not only for the way he introduce this motion , but for the courteous way in which he and his colleague have engage with I . the official in his Department have be uniquely pleased to receive my telephone call , text message , email , team call and everything else — they have be very helpful — and the Minister , with his joyous bonhomie , have come back to I on a number of occasion about the Bill . I appreciate all that support . I think that there be a procedural requirement that I indicate my assent to the motion . anybody who be present for Second Reason will understand entirely not only the nature of what the Minister have outline , but the reason for the instruction — it all follow from narrow drafting . we be more than content with what have be outline . it would be remiss of I not to put on the record my thank to my hon . friend for his insight . the formation of Northern Ireland leave behind many who consider themselves to be british in Ireland . this Bill will right the wrong that be do to those who have a right to that identity but be hold back by the tie to their home and their local community . do he agree that the message send today to those who consider themselves british in Ireland be clear : " there be a place for you , and a passport to go along with it " ? my hon . friend be quite right . in relation to the entitlement of those bear in the Irish Free State to obtain british citizenship , the reason a date be introduce to the Bill in the initial stage be the creation of the Republic of Ireland in 1948 . that be the reason for it , but there be absolutely no requirement for it to be there , and I agree with the government that it be unnecessary . it be encouraging for I as a Unionist to have an even well unionist argument put forward by the Conservative and Unionist party to say that this should not be restrict solely to those in Northern Ireland , but should apply to anywhere in the United Kingdom . how could I oppose that proposition ? give that my colleague and hon . friend the Member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) be not here for Second Reading , it be important that I place on the record , in his presence , my appreciation for the path that he lay before I . in the 23 year that he have sit in this House represent the people of Northern Ireland , he have champion the content of the Bill and the requirement for such legislation . we be all greatly appreciative of the Government ' s support , and hopefully we will be able to progress this positively and conclusively within this parliamentary term — an outcome that we relish . I think you be coil , Mr Deputy Speaker — poised and ready to go . I be very concerned for those people in our society who tune into the BBC Parliament channel at teatime . I be concerned that if I do not exhaust the next 45 minute , there will be nothing for they to watch when they get home from their hard day ' s toil and check in to see how we be represent they . but since you seem so keen to restore yourself to your foot , Mr Deputy Speaker , I shall conclude . question put and agree to . High Streets ( Designation , Review and Improvement Plan ) bill : Money King ' s recommendation signify . I beg to move , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the High Streets ( Designation , Review and Improvement Plan ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . the Government fully support the Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) to improve our nation ' s high street . the question be as on the Order Paper — rise — I beg your pardon . I call Jack Brereton . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker — I will not detain the House long . I just want to put on the record my huge thank and appreciation to my hon . friend the Minister , his official and the Whips Office for all the support that they have give I and my Bill — it be an important Bill . member across this House care deeply about high street , and I be grateful for the support that I have receive from they . I hope that the Bill will continue to move forward with success — we have Committee stage soon — on its way towards Royal Assent . I do apologise to the hon . gentleman . he do indicate to I that he wish to speak , but the business be move so fast that I overlook he . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation ( Financial Assistance to Industry ) order , that the Motion in the name of Nusrat Ghani relate to Financial Assistance to Industry shall be treat as if it relate to an instrument subject to the provision of Standing Order no . 118 ( Delegated Legislation Committees ) in respect of which notice have be give that the instrument be approve . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Rating and Valuation that the draft Non - Domestic Rating ( Rates Retention : miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 20 February , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Data Protection that the draft Data Protection Act 2018 ( Amendment of Schedule 2 Exemptions ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 31 January , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Housing that the draft Social Housing ( Regulation ) Act 2023 ( consequential and miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 18 January , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . Environmental Protection Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Waste Enforcement ( Fixed Penalty Receipts ) ( amendment ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 10 January , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Packaging Waste ( Data Reporting ) ( England ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 17 January , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . Groceries Code Adjudicator Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) have see the House run through business at such a blistering pace , we can now all settle back and enjoy the next four hour and six minute as we consider the matter of the Groceries Code Adjudicator . I assure the House that it be some year since I make my living by speak for six - minute unit in the legal profession , so we may manage to knock off the odd six minute here or there . I remind the House of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . yesterday we be here in rather great number for a wide debate on agriculture . I speak then about the importance of food manufacture and processing to the local economy in the northern isle . today we paint on a somewhat broad canvas with issue of wide concern , but what be important for the agricultural industry throughout the United Kingdom will always be important for we in the northern isle . in recent year , farmer in my constituency and elsewhere have find themselves catch in a pincer . they have see their input cost — particularly the cost of fuel and fertiliser — rise sharply , while the price that they be able to get for their produce at the farm gate have continue to be depress by the operation of the market in which they be often require to operate . farmer have , to put it bluntly , find themselves squeeze in the middle . I think it worth remind ourselves of how we come to this point . the genesis of the Groceries Code Adjudicator be an inquiry by what be then the Competition Commission — now , I guess , the Competition and Markets Authority . that inquiry take many year of pressure to be hold , and its report lead to the creation of the grocery supply code of practice , which be , in turn , follow by the Groceries Code Adjudicator Act 2013 . it be a long , slow and painful process to get even to that stage . I remember the conversation that I have with colleague in 2013 , as a Minister in the coalition Government , about how the adjudicator would operate and whether it would be sufficient . I think we all know that , at some point or other , we would need to revisit the matter , but we be certainly pragmatic about it , and take the view that what we be get in 2013 be well than nothing . I commend the right hon . gentleman for secure this debate on a massive issue that affect we all . hail as I do from a farming constituency , I have a deep and intricate interest in the defence of farmer ’ price and income . my real fear be that the hard farmer struggle to eke out their pay , the less likely future generation will be to pursue farming , be isolate and work night and day for less than minimum wage . do he agree that we need to defend the pay scale , through an enhanced adjudicator power , to secure the viability of the job as an occupation for the future ? I do . I feel that a debate focus on the Groceries Code Adjudicator be timely and essential because the relationship between the producer and the retailer be critical . unless we get that relationship right , there will be no future ; many generation , one after the other , have make the decision to go into agriculture , but it will simply not be worth it . as many of our environmental objective rely on agriculture , the reduction of agriculture and the change we be see in the countryside will ultimately be counterproductive to achieve those environmental gain . I understand government ' reluctance and caution about interfere in the operation of a market — we all know that the law of unintended consequence be never far away — but 10 year since the adjudicator ' s creation , it be surely obvious that the way in which it be work , measure by its output , be simply not good enough , and that reform be require . on the basis of the debate we have in the Chamber yesterday , the good news for the Government be that there be already a fairly broad consensus in the House , both from people represent rural seat and those represent urban seat , about what that reform should achieve . the Competition Commission ' s report identify what be essentially a dysfunctional market . on the one hand , we have a handful of behemoth purchaser : 95 % of the food consume in this country come from 12 retail company . on the other hand , we have thousand of small business — farmer , processer and other . we have all hear the story over the year about the influence of the supermarket . of course , big food manufacturer such as Kraft Heinz can compete — they can engage with supermarket on something like an equal footing — but for the farmer and processer in my constituency and those of other member , it be a very different story . the hard commercial fact be that farmer require access to supermarket to grow their business , but once they have access to those supermarket , the risk be that they become dependent on it . at that point , it be the supermarket that can dictate the term and condition on which trade be do . of course , that be a matter of contract , but as any lawyer could tell we , when it come to take action to enforce or arbitrate on the basis of a contract , that contract be only as good as the resource behind it . it seem that even 10 year after the creation of the adjudicator , it be still necessary for farmer and processer to say that supermarket should be require to buy what they say they be go to buy , pay the price that they say they be go to pay , and pay it on time . the fact that we still hear that message be the simple basis on which I can illustrate the need for reform . at the moment , our farmer find themselves in a perfect storm . leave the European Union bring with it the repatriation of agricultural policy , as well as a number of trade deal with other country in other part of the world . the change to agricultural support risk reduce the amount of food produce on the land ; at the same time , we see land give over to other , non - food - produce purpose , such as the creation of renewable energy resource or the process of grow tree — rewilding . those trade agreement open up our market to import food . if that food be not produce accord to the same welfare and environmental standard that we expect our farmer to meet , it will inevitably lead to an imbalance in price , which make it more difficult for our farmer to compete on price . at a time when we see huge pressure on family budget as a consequence of a massive spike in the cost of living , consumer will increasingly buy on the basis of price . it seem to I that we be put ourselves in a place where our own farmer be least able to compete on the basis that consumer be most likely to buy on . if the Government be sincere in want to keep productive farming and a proper , function market , the relationship between the farmer and the retailer be absolutely critical — it be more important than ever . I be strike when listen to the debate yesterday how many of the participant speak about subsidy for farmer . the hard truth of the matter be that these subsidy have never properly be subsidy for farmer ; they have be subsidy for consumer , because they have allow farmer to sell their produce at a price that simply would not be economic in any free market . the people who have benefit from these farm subsidy have ultimately be the consumer and the large corporate — the supermarket — that have be supply they . the world be very different today from the one in which the adjudicator be create 10 year ago . there be change that I would like to see , around which consensus be apparent yesterday . the first difficulty in the way in which the adjudicator ' s function and office be create be that the remit give to they miss out on the early part of the supply chain . it do not cover producer who supply processer , or small retailer . as with the Groceries Code Adjudicator , the code of practice surely require to be extend to include processer , hospitality and manufacturer . as well as the remit give to the adjudicator , the resourcing of that office also require to improve . it be difficult to see how we can possibly hope for an adjudicator to exercise meaningful control over the big supermarket — who , incidentally , fund its operation through a levy — if the cost of a single investigation be great than its annual budget . remember also that when it come to the dialogue between the regulator and the supermarket , the supermarket will not be under - resource and they have every interest and every mean to ensure that they put forward the most favourable case they can possibly create . just as there be an inequality of arm between supermarket and farmer , so there be an inequality of arm between the supermarket and the regulator . also , the code apply only to direct supplier , which be now the 14 large retailer . there be no protection , as thing be currently structure , for those who would be indirect supplier , so any supermarket or other large retailer that wish to avoid enforcement or come under the attention of the Groceries Code Adjudicator can do that quite simply by purchase the good through intermediary . the Agriculture Act 2020 allow the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to create statutory code of conduct . I be aware that a consultation be carry out by the Government on contractual relationship in the fresh produce industry finish on 22 February . I expect that that be still be consider by Ministers , but I hope it will be possible to hear some indication from the Minister today of when we might see the outcome of that consultation . as we consider the reform of the adjudicator ' s office , we must ask one simple question : be there an overall strategy at play ? it seem to I that different avenue of influence be possible and that , as part of the review , the compatibility of the code of conduct under the 2020 Act and the office of the adjudicator require to be examine . bluntly , I do not care how we tackle this . the vehicle for change be irrelevant , as far as I be concerned . it be the outcome , the change that we be able to achieve , that matter to I . the concern that be most frequently express to I be a pretty fundamental one — namely , that the code do not cover pricing . few thing illustrate that well than the way in which the dairy industry have be affect by supermarket activity in recent year , but when we speak to producer in just about every sector , we get the same story every time . the strand of Government policy that we have at the moment — the removal of support for production through the new agricultural policy for England , which , as I say yesterday , have a knock - on effect for agriculture in other part of the United Kingdom , and the improvement of food security — will only both be achieve if british farmer receive a fair price for the food that they produce . if we do not achieve that , then remove the direct support for food production from our subsidy system will leave we with no option but to import ever more of our food . the carbon consequence of the production of that food — reference be make yesterday to its be produce in Central and South America in ground that would previously have be rainforest or whatever else — and its transportation would run counterproductive to other stated Government policy . it be in the round that we see the importance of regulate properly this relationship , and it be now a matter of urgency . recent research demonstrate that 49 % of farmer in the United Kingdom fear they could be out of business next year , 61 % identify supply chain unfairness as something that have an adverse effect on their mental health , and 23 % of dairy farmer doubt that they will continue into 2025 . action need to be take . there be a willingness in this House to take meaningful action to deal properly with this relationship , which in itself will have a significant effect on the future economic and social viability of our rural community produce good - quality food for people in all our community to consume . who would not want that ? it be a pleasure to serve with you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . this debate be very important to I personally . my father be a hill farmer , and I represent a rural constituency with many farmer who be experience many of the pressure that the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) refer to ; indeed , he describe they as a perfect storm . I congratulate he on secure the debate and on all the work he do in this area , of which I be only too aware . he mention the pressure that farmer and those in the farming community face make a living , and the competition for land from different land use , with which we should be careful in ensure that we have food security as well as energy security and the other thing that we need to retain in this country . the right hon . Gentleman be of course familiar with the Groceries Code Adjudicator , but it might be worthwhile set out exactly what it be there to do , how it can help get a fair deal for farmer , and what else we be do to ensure that that be the case . the role of the GCA be to enforce the grocery supply code of practice . it do so by provide advice and guidance to both supplier and large retailer on matter relate to the code , arbitrate in dispute between large retailer and their direct supplier , investigate issue to ascertain whether there have be non - compliance with the code , and impose sanction and other remedy for breach of the code . the code apply to the 14 large grocery retailer in the UK , which have an annual turnover in grocery of £ 1 billion or more . as the right hon . Gentleman rightly point out , the code be put in place follow a detailed market investigation by the Competition Commission between 2006 and 2008 , which find that direct supplier of grocery to large supermarket face unfair risk that adversely affect competition and , ultimately , consumer . the code regulate designate retailer ' interaction with their direct supplier , include some but not the majority of farmer . while the code prevent the unilateral variation of supply agreement , such as on wastage and forecasting error , and require retailer to pay invoice on time , it do not cover price agree between a retailer and a supplier , which , as the right hon . Gentleman say , be a matter of commercial negotiation . however , the code do help ensure that negotiation be conduct fairly and transparently , and the GCA have an interest in ensure that negotiation on cost price pressure do not lead to non - compliance with the code . of particular note be the GCA ' s seven golden rule , which all the regulated retailer have sign up to and which safeguard the requirement of the code in discussion about price and cost pressure . there be strong evidence to show that the GCA have be highly effective since it be establish in ensure compliance with the code and change the behaviour of retailer to ensure fairness for supplier . stakeholder have express a positive view of the GCA and their input have help inform the statutory review of the performance of the GCA that the Government conduct every three year . indeed , I meet many of those supplier and they speak very clearly about the benefit of the GCA that they see . those supplier represent many of the primary producer refer to by the right hon . Gentleman . the third such review conclude in July 2023 and I hope the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent feel able to submit their view . the review consider publicly available evidence and the response submit by 71 stakeholder , include from 27 individual supplier and their representative body , and 30 other trade association , organisation and individual . Most of the supplier who respond to the review say they believe the impact of the GCA on the grocery market have be positive as retailer behaviour have improve . they also say the adjudicator have address the previous imbalance of power and make the grocery market fair to operate in . for instance , in 2014 , just after the GCA be set up , four out of five direct supplier respond to the GCA ' s first annual survey say they have experience an issue with the code . that be now down to one in three , and the issue that concern supplier be down in practically all case . supplier , include small and medium - sized enterprise , feel well protect against any poor behaviour from retailer follow the good practice put in place by the GCA . in 2022 , more than two third of direct supplier feel that retailer cover by the code conduct relationship fairly . overall , there be a consistently high level of awareness among supplier of the GCA and the code . I have meet the current adjudicator , Mark White , several time and have be extremely impressed by his pragmatic approach to ensure the compliance of the designated supermarket , which have help to stop problem escalate and reduce the need for time - consume and expensive formal dispute resolution . I be aware that some member have ask whether the GCA have the necessary power and resource . I know that Mark White believe his current power provide the necessary tool to enforce the code and change retailer behaviour . he be also responsible for determine the level of resource that he need and set the levy of regulated retailer to fund his work . while Ministers be responsible for approve the propose levy , the Government have always accept the adjudicator ' s levy business case and will of course give careful consideration to future request . I be ponder the word the Minister have use . I think he be right that the adjudicator do have the power to investigate and enforce the code of practice , but there be still big area that be not cover , and that come to the concern that farmer , producer and processor have . I be not ignore the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern at all . I recognise they and , as I say early in my speech , the vast majority of the market in term of primary producer be not cover by the code . I will come on to that shortly . the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that there would be challenge in the GCA be the custodian or overseer of thousand upon thousand of business contract , with the complexity and bureaucracy that would flow from that , which neither of we would wish to see . that would , of course , result in an impact on price as well . I will address that later . we recognise that , despite the GCA ' s effectiveness and successful interventionist approach , we have not yet stamp out all unfair practice . the impact of the recent cost price pressure in the food sector have demonstrate how external factor can affect relationship and behaviour . as such , we recognise the continued need for the GCA ' s role in ensure fair treatment of supplier to supermarket through enforcement of the code . we be aware that some poor practice be affect producer across several agricultural sector not cover by the code and that primary producer , such as farmer , have feel unfairly treat . the Government also want farmer to get a fair price for their product — that be the opening and closing argument of the right hon . Gentleman — and we be commit to tackle contractual unfairness that can exist in the agrifood supply chain . power in the Agriculture Act 2020 enable the introduction of statutory code and contractual practice to protect farmer . those code would apply to any business purchase agricultural product directly from farmer , include processor , consolidator and other intermediary , provide great certainty for farmer by ensure that clear term and condition be set out in contract . that will seek to improve the negotiating position of farmer to achieve fair price and great transparency and accountability in supply chain . minister in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be exercise the power under the 2020 Act in a sector - specific approach , acknowledge that the problem experience by each sector differ widely and avoid broad regulation that place burden on sector that may not require intervention . the first sector - specific regulation for the dairy sector be lay in draft in February 2024 and regulation for the pig sector be expect to be introduce later this year . work be also progress on regulation for the egg sector , and DEFRA carry out a fresh produce review , which the right hon . Gentleman refer to , in December 2023 , and the response to that will be publish shortly . I can not give a more definitive timescale than that , I regret — if it be all in my gift , perhaps I could , but it be not . he be probably pretty familiar with the term " shortly " . crucially , the recruitment be under way for an agricultural supply chain adjudicator , who will be responsible for enforce the new regulation . as I touch on early , it may be that the GCA ' s effectiveness be the reason why some think we should extend its role to ensure the well protection of primary producer in the grocery supply chain , such as farmer . require the GCA to regulate the many thousand of transaction throughout diverse supply chain would risk dilute the adjudicator ' s tight focus on the 14 large supermarket and could undermine its record as a highly effective regulator . in term of what it do , if something be not break , don ' t try and fix it . however , we do understand that part of the system be break , and that be why we be bring in the sector - specific supply chain remedy . it be important to safeguard the GCA ' s ability to remain vigilant on the compliance of the 14 designate retailer . the Government therefore have no plan to extend the adjudicator ' s remit , but instead seek to learn from and emulate the GCA ' s approach and effectiveness , so that it can be replicate for the sector - specific code . question put and agree to . House adjourn .