Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — Farmers : Inheritance Tax what discussion she have have with farmer in Wales on the potential impact of plan change to inheritance tax relief on the agricultural sector . what discussion she have have with farmer in Wales on the potential impact of plan change to inheritance tax relief on the agricultural sector . Minister , welcome . thank you , Mr Speaker . as a proud Welsh MP I be honour to be here for my first Welsh question . we fully recognise the role of farmer and the agricultural community in Wales . that be why one of the first thing that I do as Minister be meet member of the Farmers ' Union of Wales at the farm of one of its member just two week ago . I will be meet with the National Farmers ' Union later today to discuss important matter for its member , include inheritance tax . this government have also make sure to protect the farm budget for Wales , ensure that the full £ 337 million have be allocate to the Welsh Government . I welcome the Minister to her place . the impact of the change to IHT go far beyond just farmer . last month , a Pembrokeshire farm gather 57 business from vet , machinery dealership , and milk processor , to electrician and fence company , employ almost 11 , 000 people . almost half of those be totally reliant on income from local farm . have the Government fully consider the ripple effect of that policy on farm in Wales and across the UK , include in my constituency ? this Government want to strike a fair balance between support farmer and fix our public finance on which our community , include those important agricultural community , rely so heavily . the vast majority of farmer will not be affect by this change , and they will be able to pass the family farm down to their child . Welsh Conservatives vote to block the support reach Welsh farm in March , which show that the conservative party just do not care for farmer and the agricultural community . I welcome the Minister to her position at the Dispatch Box . I know she will be excellent at the job . I also refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Welsh farming be central to the Welsh economy — we can all agree on that — but it be now face a double whammy from the mad sustainable farming scheme from Labour in Cardiff , and the frankly bad family farm tax that have be dream up by Labour in London . the Farmers ' Union of Wales tell we that more than 85 % of active farm in Wales will have IHT bill that exceed their income . that spell economic disaster . why be Labour so deaf to the voice of farmer in Wales ? as I say , the Government want to strike that fair balance , and that be what they be do . our reform mean that the majority of those claim agricultural property relief will not be affect . that be a fair approach that balance fix our public finance after the chaos of the Conservative party , and maintain much need support for family , farm and the wide rural agricultural community . I welcome my hon . friend to her place . be she as shock as I be last year that Plaid Cymru and Conservative Senedd Members vote against the £ 300 million funding for Welsh farmer ? will she join I in urge they to stop play political game , put the people of Wales first , and work with the Welsh Government constructively to ensure that we do not have uncertainty for our farmer and our public sector , which we all depend on in Wales ? I thank my hon . friend and pay tribute to her work in this role prior to my appointment . I completely agree : the Welsh Government publish their outline draft budget early this month , and be work with opposition party to ensure that it have broad support . the question everyone in Wales want the answer to be whether the Opposition party will vote against billion of pound for public service , include vital support for Welsh farmer , just like they do last year . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I note that it take three woman to take I on now , but I very much welcome the Ministers to their place . Charles Rees , a fifth - generation Pembrokeshire farmer , have bravely and move share his battle with cancer on the BBC ' s " Countryfile " , and I know this House will send he and his family our good wish . his illness be not his only worry ; he be also seriously concerned that his son , who be run his farm , could now be face an unaffordable inheritance tax bill of £ 1 million , solely due to this Government ' s catastrophic family farm tax . despite Ministers say differently , Charles and many other farmer across the country be fear for their livelihood , their way of life , their future , and for food security . will the Government scrap the family farm tax ? I reiterate that our reform mean that the majority of those claim the relief will not be affect . as confirm by the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , there will be no change and no u - turn on inheritance tax . this policy strike a fair balance and be fix our public finance , after the chaos that the Tories leave , while protect our rural community . economic Growth what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on increase economic growth in Wales . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on increase economic growth in Wales . economic growth be the no . 1 priority for this Government . the UK be the fast grow economy in the G7 in the first half of this year . wage be up , inward investment be up , inactivity be down on the year and interest rate be down . this Labour Government be deliver for work people all across Wales and the United Kingdom . it be brilliant that last month a total of £ 214 million be invest in community across Wales as part of the Government ' s pride in place scheme . in my patch , I be delighted that early this year Scarborough be award £ 20 million through the plan for neighbourhood . these initiative will give local people the power to decide how funding will transform our town . will the Secretary of State update the House on how fund such as these will boost local economic growth and restore pride in our community ? through the pride in place initiative , we be put power and resource directly into the hand of local community , from Conwy to Carmarthenshire , give they the ability to decide the priority that matter most and the funding to pay for visible and lasting change . in Wales , 14 community will benefit from £ 20 million of investment , alongside a furth £ 34 . 5 million benefit every single local authority across Wales . together , the investment will help revitalise high street and improve public space and community facility , which be a central part of our mission to boost the economy and break down barrier to opportunity . as the MP for the centre of London , include Paddington station , I know how interconnect our country and our economy be . in stark contrast to the nationalist party of Reform and Plaid Cymru , the Labour Government be focus on job creation . will the Secretary of State update we on the impact of Plaid Cymru ' s damage independence plan ? Plaid Cymru ' s disastrous plan for independence will cost Wales £ 21 . 5 billion every year — over £ 11 , 000 for every working - age person in Wales or over £ 7 , 000 for every adult and child in Wales , every single year . the people of Wales deserve to know what public service Plaid Cymru will cut or what taxis it would raise to pay for its divisive , separatist plan ? it be not just farmer but lot of other family business who be terrify for their future . under the business property relief , a company worth £ 20 million would have to pay £ 4 million in tax , yet that responsibility fall not on the business but the person who inherit it , so they will have to extract another £ 4 million to pay that tax , cripple family business , cripple investment and hurt growth in Wales . that be true , be it not ? it be certainly not . the right hon . Gentleman will have hear of tax planning , and so will the people he have be talk about . investment be up in Wales and we have have record inward investment in Wales , with a 23 % increase on the previous financial year and a 30 % increase in job create . the UK be the fast grow economy in the G7 in the first half of this year . business be grow , develop and create job under this Government . I call the shadow Secretary of State . under the watch of the current Secretary of State , opportunity for young people be now unbelievably dire . despite what she say , unemployment be rise and employment be fall , and that situation be not good enough for the next generation in Wales . last week , my colleague , Darren Millar , who be the conservative leader of the Senedd group , meet the Welsh First Minister — do anyone know who that be ? — offer to potentially support the Welsh Government ' s budget , provide Labour Ministers agree to scrap Welsh stamp duty . that would help young people on to the property ladder in Wales , where it be the hard to achieve that , and boost the Welsh economy . will the Secretary of State confirm that she agree with scrap Welsh stamp duty ? if so , what measure be she take to persuade Baroness Morgan of Ely to scrap the tax in Wales ? I be very glad that the hon . Lady know the name of the Welsh Conservative leader in the Senedd , because clearly her colleague the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , do not . they must have end their fight about who be the actual leader . we be deliver for the people of Wales . we have end Tory austerity , and we have the large budget settlement in the history of devolution , with nearly £ 5 billion extra to spend on public service over the next three year . we be create job , and we have increase the minimum wage and the national living wage for 160 , 000 Welsh worker . we be fix the foundation and the chaos that the hon . Lady ' s party leave behind . allow I first to congratulate Lindsay Whittle on his seismic victory in Caerphilly . in do so , I pay tribute to the late Hefin David , whose service to his community be deeply respect . as Mr Whittle have say : " he will be a hard act to follow . I will never fill his shoe but I promise you I will walk the same path that he do " . the result show that people in Wales seek real change . in her capacity as Secretary of State at the Wales Office , what be she do to press the Labour Chancellor to include measure that benefit Wales in the autumn Budget ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her word about our late colleague Hefin David . I congratulate Lindsay Whittle on his victory and on become a Senedd Member ; I be sure that he will work very hard for his Caerphilly constituency for the next six month . as she will know , I be not go to comment on discussion between myself and the Chancellor ahead of the Budget . she will have to wait and see what the Chancellor say on 26 November . none the less , I think we all know that the autumn Budget risk fall short of tackle the deep poverty and lack of opportunity that still scar far too many Welsh community . we need to tax income from wealth fairly , scrap the two - child limit and ensure that family have the support they need to cope with rise cost . the Secretary of State tell I to wait for the Budget . perhaps she be therefore prepared , for once , to meet with I to discuss Plaid Cymru ' s proposal for a fair , more ambitious UK Budget that actually work for Wales . will she meet with I ? I be very happy to meet with the right hon . Lady . I think so . cost of live what recent discussion she have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on reduce the cost of live in Wales . I have regular discussion with the Chancellor and Treasury Ministers on a wide range of issue , include the cost of living . this Labour Government be on the side of work people . that be why we have already take action by increase the national minimum wage and the national living wage for 160 , 000 worker across Wales . we have freeze fuel duty and extend the warm home discount . there be more to do , and we be determined to put more money into people ' s pocket right across Wales . a century of Labour take the people of Wales for grant come crash down last week with the sensational victory of Plaid ' s Lindsay Whittle in Caerphilly , with Labour reduce to third place . why would anybody accept any more labour , as Labour ' s cost of living soar , its Westminster perma - crisis deepen , and 700 , 000 people in Wales live under its poverty prospectus ? the Secretary of State will not say what she be go to speak to the Chancellor about , but do she think the Chancellor be ready and willing to help the people of Wales ? the people of Wales feel abandon by Labour over the last five decade . I be not sure whether the hon . Member have ever be to Caerphilly or even to Wales . if he have , that be good ; if he have not , he need to be careful about what he say about the people in Wales . he absolutely do not know what he be talk about . his party ' s record in Scotland be nothing to boast about . Nationalists will divide the United Kingdom , cost Wales £ 21 . 5 billion every single year . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I welcome last month ' s news that Newport city council and Caerphilly county borough council will each receive £ 21 . 5 million from the UK Labour Government ' s Pride in Place scheme . that funding will empower community across my constituency to invest in community asset and their local high street , drive local growth and create job , thus reduce the cost of living . do the Secretary of State agree that at last in Wales , we have two Labour government deliver for the people of Wales ? my hon . friend , the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Select Committee , be absolutely right . our pride in place programme , the local growth fund , the city and growth deal , the investment zone and our freeport be all the result of have two Labour government work together for the benefit of everyone across Wales . take together , they will boost the economy , draw in further investment , create thousand of job and raise living standard across Wales . they demonstrate this Government ' s commitment to growth — practical , visible , long - term investment that empower local community and deliver real benefit for they . Energy Infrastructure : Pylons whether she have have recent discussion with the Welsh Government on the replacement of overhead pylon with underground cabling . overhead line be much cheap to build ; accord to the Institution of Engineering and Technology , undergrounde cost an estimate four and a half time more than overhead line . overhead line be also quick to build , cause less environmental damage , and be much easy to maintain . the cost of build this infrastructure be bear by electricity bill payer , and Plaid ' s policy on undergrounding will not only increase bill , but suffocate the economic potential of Wales ' s green industrial revolution . my constituency be the location of two major infrastructure project — a network of pylon of 97 km and 60 km , alongside 248 wind turbine that be 230 metre tall . the cumulative impact of these project be significant , occupy land that could support other development , and it remain unclear whether they will lower electricity bill or improve electricity connectivity for local household or business . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the Welsh Government to ensure that those project deliver genuine benefit for our community ? I have hear what the hon . Lady have say , but we do have a policy to ensure that community that host clean energy infrastructure can directly benefit . the new community fund guidance aim to improve the consistency and amount of funding for community that could be use for local project . turn to bill discount , we be introduce a scheme that will provide household discount to those live close to new and significantly upgrade transmission infrastructure project . I like my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Caerfyrddin ( Ann Davies ) , and Plaid want to be take seriously as a party of government , but it fail to recognise the importance of the role that renewable energy will play . do the Secretary of State agree with RenewableUK Cymru , which recently conclude that Plaid ' s approach would cost job and investment in community such as mine in Pembrokeshire ? labour be the only party that be commit to invest in renewable energy , which will bring down bill and create thousand of job for people right across Wales . Plaid and Reform be against renewable infrastructure , and Plaid and the SNP do not want nuclear — Plaid ' s economy spokesperson in the Senedd be anti - nuclear . plaid be happy to see people pay high bill , to spurn investment , and to see job opportunity slash . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . during the second world war , over 200 people be force to leave their home and give up their land in the Epynt when more than half of the community be take for use by the Ministry of Defence . the people of the Epynt understand why that sacrifice have to be make , but now , Bute Energy and its wealthy investment backer want to take the rest of the Epynt . do the Secretary of State agree that the Epynt have already sacrifice enough , and will she work with I to defend the Welsh countryside from once again have its wealth extract from it , with no benefit to local community ? it sound like the Liberal Democrats in Wales have the same position as Plaid Cymru . our priority be to drive growth , low bill and create job for people through our new green energy revolution , include those in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . investment in his constituency be something he should be welcome . Asylum Seeker Accommodation what discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for the Home Department on the adequacy of accommodation for asylum seeker in Wales . we inherit a broken asylum system in absolute chaos from the Tories , with ten of thousand stick in a system dependent on expensive asylum hotel . we be commit to end the use of hotel as asylum accommodation as soon as possible and before the end of this Parliament , as part of a control , manage and orderly programme . under the Welsh Labour Government , waiting list , educational standard and opportunity for young people have all grind to an abrupt halt . it be therefore shocking that the Welsh Labour Government be not prioritise issue that would make a real difference to the people of Wales . instead , Labour Ministers , support by Plaid Cymru , be plough ten of million of pound into their nation of sanctuary policy , which be believe to support service for some illegal immigrant . do the hon . Lady agree that it be high time her colleague scrap this wasteful , non - devolve policy and instead focus their time on lower NHS waiting time and improve standard ? it sound like the hon . member do not agree with welcome the thousand of ukrainian refugee that the UK Government ' s nation of sanctuary have support . the scheme have be use to welcome ukrainian family flee from russian aggression . that be a cause that I understand her party support . I associate myself with the remark of the leader of Plaid Cymru in pay tribute to Hefin David , my friend and colleague . he be an amazing representative for Wales and a real warrior for those who be neurodivergent or find themselves on the margin of society . I be delighted that Caerphilly be so popular today . it seem that so many people who have either only visit several time , or not visit at all and have only read about it in the press , have become expert about my constituency . I be also pleased that the Minister have raise the plight of Ukrainians who come to Wales to seek sanctuary , run from war , because if there be one downside to the by - election , it be the talk of asylum seeker be bad people — that they be all illegal and that they do not contribute anything . those who say such thing should see the exhibition that be on at Caerphilly council and see what asylum seeker have contribute . what message do the Minister have for those Ukrainians who be still seek asylum in Wales ? we offer sanctuary for those who desperately need it , and we be proud of that , but we inherit contract and a broken system from the Conservatives . hotel use have nearly halve since the last election , and we have remove 30 , 000 people who have no right to be here , ensure that those who do need to be here have the welcome and support that they need . it be not job do , but work in progress . we can compare that with the 14 year of the Tory Government . I call the shadow Secretary of State . after wantonly scrap the Rwanda scheme , the Labour Government be now oversee record - break figure of illegal immigrant . it be report that the scandal be now engulf north Wales , where more than 200 illegal immigrant have try to gain entry to the country on ferry from Dublin to Holyhead . meanwhile , there be talk about penally military camp in south - west Wales , which be previously condemn by the Welsh Labour Government . it appear that their policy , along with Reform ' s , be from boat to barrack , as be happen in Scotland and Sussex , yet Plaid say that there be no such thing as illegal immigration . do the Minister agree that her Government and Plaid have no idea about and no interest in how to make our border safe ? I fear that the Conservatives forget about the chaos that they create . we inherit a broken system after 14 year of chaos , and contract that we have to honour , but in the past year we have halve the use of hotel . we have remove 30 , 000 people who have no right to be here . it be not job do , as I say , but it be a work in progress . we can compare that work in just one year with 14 year of chaos under the hon . Lady ' s Government . cross - border Rail Connectivity what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to improve cross - border rail connectivity between Wales and England . we be invest at least £ 445 million in Welsh rail in order to right year of underfunding by past government . that will mean new station and more and fast train along the key line , and will improve cross - border connectivity , create job and boost economic growth . I thank the Minister for that £ 445 million investment , which will be a fundamental driver of economic growth and connectivity in south Wales . what action be she take with Cabinet colleague and industry partner to ensure that a new station serve my constituent in Magor and Undy be deliver without delay , get my constituent on track , and fast , towards their destination ? my hon . friend have be a strong champion for this rail investment , which be the key to unlock Wales ' s economic potential . it include fund to progress the five Burns station in Cardiff East , Newport West , Somerton , Llanwern and Magor and Undy . I will continue to work with the Wales Rail Board and the Welsh Government to ensure that the community my hon . friend represent be give the infrastructure that it need . the huge potential of both the north - west of England and north Wales be be hold back by poor rail infra - structure . the last Conservative Government commit themselves to spend at least £ 1 billion to upgrade and electrify the railway line from Crewe and Warrington through Chester and into north Wales , but this Labour Government have scrap those transformational plan , at a time when economic growth be a priority . will the Minister seek to reinstate the vital rail infrastructure investment in the Mersey Dee and north Wales region ? that money just do not exist . we be invest a historic £ 445 million in Welsh rail to right year of underfunding by previous government , unleash Wales ' s economic potential . that will mean new station , fast train on key line , and connect people with well - pay and well job right across Wales . two government be work in partnership to deliver for the people of Wales . order . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , may I welcome , in the Gallery , the honourable Speaker of the Parliament of Sri Lanka and his delegation ? Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 29 October . the scene of destruction emerge from Jamaica be truly shocking . both the Foreign Secretary and I have be in close contact with our jamaican counterpart in recent day to offer the UK ' s full support . I can update the House : HMS Trent and specialist rapid deployment team be pre - position in the region , and we stand ready to provide humanitarian support . Awaab Ishak die five year ago from a respiratory condition cause by exposure to black mould in his flat in Rochdale . he be just two year old . no child should grow up without the safety and security of a decent home . for far too long , million of people have live at the mercy of rogue landlord and insecure contract . labour be end that . despite the good effort of the Tories and Reform , who vote against it , our Renters ’ Rights Act 2025 be now law , include Awaab ' s law . fight for work people : that be the difference that a Labour Government make , and on that issue , this Government have secure the big deal to manufacture Typhoon fighter jet in this country for almost 20 year . we secure that deal because the UK be back as a lead and trust member of NATO . that be a timely reminder for the Green party , whose policy be to take we out of NATO ; for the Putin - friendly Reform party , which would have no standing with NATO ; and for the Leader of the Opposition , because you do not win NATO deal by not turn up to NATO summit . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about support Jamaica . across our country , and in Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , off - road biker be a menace . they tear up our environment , and turn our street into racetrack . after year of Tory cut , gwent police be now tackle that . do the Prime Minister agree that police force , and community such as mine , be see the difference that Labour can make in power ? I share my hon . friend ' s determination that everyone should feel safe and secure in their community . neighbourhood policing be decimate by the Conservative party , and we be restore it with 3 , 000 extra officer by spring . we be also give they the power that they need , include tough new respect order that allow the police to seize and destroy vehicle within 48 hour . the Tories walk through the Lobby , with Reform , to vote against our Crime and Policing Bill . I call the Leader of the Opposition . last year , in its manifesto , Labour promise not to increase income tax , not to increase national insurance , and not to increase vat . do the Prime Minister still stand by his promise ? I be glad that the Leader of the Opposition be now finally talk about the economy . I can update the House : retail sale be high than expect ; inflation be low than expect ; growth have be upgrade this year ; and the UK stock market be at an all - time high . the Budget be on 26 November , and we will lay out our plan then , but I can tell the House now that we will build a strong economy , cut NHS waiting list and deliver a well future for our country . well , well , well ; what a fascinating answer . it be not the same answer that I receive when I ask exactly the same question , word for word , on 9 July . then , the Prime Minister reply with just one word — yes — and then he sit down with a smug grin on his face . what have change in the past four month ? as the Leader of the Opposition well know , no Prime Minister or Chancellor will ever set out their plan in advance . but I can say this : the figure from the productivity review that be be undertake — which be a judgment on the Tories ' record in office — be now come through , and they confirm that the Tories do even more damage to the economy than we have previously think . we will turn that around . we have already deliver the fast growth in the G7 in the first half of this year , five interest rate cut in a row , and trade deal with the US , EU and India . the Tories break the economy ; we be fix it . the right and learn hon . Gentleman say that no Prime Minister or Chancellor will say these thing before the Budget . have he tell his Chancellor ? she have be out there fly kite , cause constant speculation around the Budget that be damage the economy . all week , the Government have be brief about tax rise . what we have hear be that he do not have a plan , so we have some idea for he . [ interruption . ] it be quite clear that they need some idea . on the conservative Benches , we believe in scrap taxis on family home . yesterday , we vote to abolish stamp duty ; Labour vote against it . even the former Deputy Prime Minister , who resign in disgrace for not pay stamp duty , vote to keep it . I remind they that on this side of the House we know that abolish stamp duty be how we get young people on the housing ladder and get the economy grow . so why will he not scrap this terrible tax ? why do the Tories not do it , then , in their 14 year in office ? as I say , the productivity review figure be now come in , and those show the true extent of the damage that they do . the Leader of the Opposition ask we to take advice from they . these figure be come out , and we all know that austerity damage the economy on their watch . the botched Brexit deal damage the economy on their watch . Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget damage the economy on their watch . so we will take no lecture or advice from they on the economy . they will not be trust on the economy for generation to come . that be why I can be clear that , at our Budget , there will be no return to austerity — that be what break the country — and no return to the instability of their mad borrowing spree , and we will end the unfairness and low growth that squeeze living standard for work people . that be the path to national renewal . the Conservatives reduce the deficit every year until the pandemic . we more than double the personal allowance . we leave 4 million more job than we find from Labour . we bring inflation down to 2 % ; it have nearly double — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Tufnell , you be in my sight . the pantomime season have not arrive — do not start it too early . on our record , we bring inflation down to 2 % ; it have double under the Prime Minister . we leave he the fast grow economy in the G7 ; it be no long . the truth be , the Government have no idea ; we be give they some . there be another way to get growth : cut welfare spending and get people into work . last month , I offer to work cross - party with he to bring down welfare spending , because he know and we know that he would rather dip into people ' s pocket than upset the people behind he . instead of tax rise , will he work with we to find a way to cut welfare spending and get Britain work again ? the right hon . Lady talk about the Conservatives ' record , so let we go through it . they crash the economy . inflation go up to 11 % . mortgage go through the roof . welfare spending go up by £ 33 billion . and they want to give we advice ! they reduce the UK to a laugh stock . because of our Budget , waiting list have come down , wage be up , mortgage rate be down and other country want to do deal with we . just on Monday of this week , the turkish Government sign an £ 8 billion deal for Typhoons . early this year , the Norwegian Government sign a £ 10 billion deal for frigate . that be because of the Budget that we pass — fix the mess that the Tories leave . it be not because of the Budget that the Prime Minister pass ; I start that deal back in January 2024 , and I welcome it . [ interruption . ] it have nothing to do with the Government ' s Budget ; we be lucky the deal be still happen . I welcome the £ 8 billion deal that he have do with Turkey , but I remind he that just last month his Chancellor borrow £ 20 billion . he will have to sell a hell of a lot more jet to make up for that . he will not rule out any tax rise , he can not cut spending and he be increase unemployment . this man know nothing about economic growth , except how to destroy it . in his weakness , he have cave in to the union on their regulation that will cripple business , cost they £ 5 billion every year . [ interruption . ] yes , please do speak up , because I want every single business out there to hear Labour mp heckle when we talk about the damage that they be do . I ask the Prime Minister : how on earth can he consider add more burden for these firm to deal with ? the right hon . Lady have overlook the fact that we have the high growth in the G7 in the first six month of this year — and that growth have just be upgrade — and we have three interest rate cut . we be not go to take lesson from the Conservatives . she have now introduce what I think she call a " golden economic rule " . this golden rule that she be now put forward — very golden ! — be £ 47 billion - worth of unspecified spending cut , with no detail whatsoever . let I put that in context : that would mean 85 , 000 few nurse , 234 , 000 few teacher or cut every police officer in the country twice over . no wonder the Institute for Government say she be on " shaky foundation " . that be exactly what cause the problem in the first place . the fact that he have to stand there and make stuff up just show what kind of Prime Minister he be . we have an itemise list worth £ 47 billion ; £ 23 billion be on welfare spending , which I ask he to work with we to cut . he refuse to do so . all he know how to do be tax , tax , tax . if you work , the Government tax you more . if you save , they tax you more . if you buy a home , they tax you more . none of these taxis be in their manifesto , which he have four year to prepare . he be raise taxis because he be too weak to control spending . he be blame we , he be blame the OBR . last week , they be blame Brexit . be it not the truth that with this Prime Minister , it be always someone else ' s fault ? the Conservatives be kick out of office because they break the economy . they will not be trust for year to come . the right hon . Lady can not tell we what her position be on the last Budget , and she have a phantom £ 47 billion with no foundation as we go forward . that be exactly the mess that they cause , and they have not change one bit . meanwhile , we be fix their mess : 5 million extra NHS appointment , five interest rate cut , and growth and wage be up . that be the change a Labour Government make . as Palestinians try to rebuild their life amid the rubble of Gaza , last night once again dozen of innocent people be kill by israeli airstrike . what will the UK do , along with our international partner , to hold the israeli — the Netanyahu — Government to account for their action , and what more can we do to ensure that aid get in as the Israel Defence Forces block aid in breach of both the peace agreement and international law ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this point . I be deeply concerned by the strike . this underline the fragility of the ceasefire deal . all side need to uphold President Trump ' s peace plan . it be the only route to long - term peace for Israelis and Palestinians . we be of course in close touch with the US and regional ally push for de - escalation . the scale of destruction in Gaza be unimaginable . the immediate priority remain get aid in at the speed and the volume need . we come to the leader of the Liberal Democrats . may I associate myself with what the Prime Minister say about Jamaica , and indeed all the island and country affect by Hurricane Melissa ? our thought and prayer be with they all . I be sure the whole House will also want to join I in pay tribute to Prunella Scales . I suspect I be not the only Member of the House with a " Fawlty Towers " DVD box set . she will be greatly miss . across Europe , in country like Poland , Germany and France , we have see evidence of dangerous russian political interference . last month , the former leader of a major party in Wales plead guilty to take bribe to make pro - russian statement . the evidence show that Nathan Gill be a close confidant of the current Reform party leader for year . do the Prime Minister agree with I that it be time we have an in - depth investigation into russian meddling and money in british politic ? I join in the right hon . member ' s comment on Prunella Scales . on the question of russian interference , it be a serious problem in country across Europe , include in our country , where it be a constant threat . for NATO ally , the conflict in Ukraine and deal with russian aggression be the no . 1 issue . that be why I have to say the Reform party would be an absolute disaster for our defence . we be a trusted member of NATO ; we would not be a trusted member if we be Putin - friendly . we be lead the coalition of the willing , give security and comfort to 30 other country . that would collapse under reform because it be Putin - friendly , and it would be a real threat to our defence and our security . I be grateful for the Prime Minister ' s reply , and I agree with he on Ukraine , but I do hope he will look to have an investigation into this russian interference in our politic . last week , I question how the Prime Minister can accept the damage of Brexit while refuse to do anything meaningful about it . the damage be clear , with the Financial Times report that low productivity growth alone have blow a £ 20 billion black hole in the public finance — just part of the Brexit black hole that the Conservatives and Reform will not apologise for . last week , he reject my plan for a new custom union , so can I ask he what action he will take to change the Brexit deal , or be he just plan to complain about it ? the right hon . Member must have overlook the fact that there be a UK - EU summit early this year , in which there be 10 strand to the change that we have already agree in relation to the relationship with the EU , include close trading relationship and close work on defence and security ; that be an iterative process that we will continue into next year . but he be absolutely right about the botched deal of the last Government and the damage that have do to our economy . we be just see some of the figure come through in relation to that . that be one of the factor behind the way they crash the economy . football be a game base on fairness , yet brilliant club that unite community every week , like Hartlepool , be be hold back by a fundamental unfairness . the 3up campaign — back by 72 national league club , include Hartlepool United , and champion by Hartlepool legend Jeff Stelling — seek to grant a third promotion place from the national league to league two . this simple change would be transformational for these historic club , many of which be over a century old . while I accept Arsenal may never directly benefit from such a change , do the Prime Minister agree that this campaign to put football first would help the new football regulator to protect club heritage , ensure stability , and put fairness and fan back at the heart of our game ? can I start by wish Hartlepool United the good for this season ? my hon . friend will appreciate that the structure of the league be a matter for the league themselves , but I commend his campaign and everything that he be put behind it . I also pay tribute to the staff , fan and player of Sheffield Wednesday at this difficult time . we have deliver the Independent Football Regulator to stand up for fan and to make sure that club have fit and proper owner . the Conservatives use to support that , but now they oppose it . the Prime Minister have a deep understanding of police in Northern Ireland and its importance . he know about the ongoing national security threat and about the additional cost of deal with the legacy of our past . he know that the Police Service of Northern Ireland have be underfunde , and that the Northern Ireland Executive have rightly bring forward a stability programme for it . he also know that it be under strength ; in 2020 , New Decade , New Approach suggest that there should be 7 , 500 police officer in Northern Ireland , but today there be 6 , 200 . do the Prime Minister know , however , that the Treasury do not look favourably on a request to draw on the reserve for a data breach that cost £ 120 million ? do he recognise that , in Treasury term , the incident be " unforeseen , unaffordable and unavoidable " , and therefore match the Treasury ' s criterion ? to set aside that money in - year would be 10 % of the PSNI ' s overall budget — it be not affordable . can I ask he to think about this issue again , in engagement with the Chancellor , and to ensure that our Police Service of Northern Ireland and the national security threat that it face be not hamper by in - year financial rule ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this important issue , which I know be of real concern to he . I reassure he that I be in regular contact with Chief Constable Jon Boutcher and the psni on it , as he would expect . as he be aware , we provide a record settlement of £ 19 . 3 billion a year on average for the Executive , and we invest £ 113 million in additional security funding for the PSNI to help to address specific security challenge . while it be for the Executive to set the PSNI budget , I reassure he that our commitment be to keep people safe in Northern Ireland . I be speak on behalf of my constituent Shannon and Tyler , who lose their two - year - old son Hudson early this year . worried about their son , they call 111 and be tell that he have gastroenteritis . in fact , Hudson have a twisted bowel and , after be rush to hospital a few day later , he tragically die . Shannon and Tyler be full of praise for the NHS medical staff who work so hard to save their son ' s life , but they just wish they have be offer an in - person appointment soon , which might have give a more accurate diagnosis . they want Hudson ' s legacy to be well access to face - to - face nhs appointment for child under five , so that other family do not face this tragic situation . their online petition on the matter have gain over 80 , 000 signature . will the Prime Minister join I in send the good wish of the House to Hudson ' s family , and will he ensure that they meet a Health Minister to discuss their courageous campaign ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that tragic case . I be sure that I speak for the whole House in say that we send our sympathy and thought to Hudson ' s parent , Shannon and Tyler . I will make sure that they get the meeting that he have ask for . this be exactly why we be work to improve access to face - to - face appointment for those who want one . to enable that , we have deliver the large cash uplift for GPs in a decade , have put over 2 , 500 gps into general practice , and be upgrade 1 , 000 surgery to deliver 8 million more appointment . early this week , I get to see the very good and some of the bad of our national health service . when my own daughter need it , it be there , but when an 89 - year - old gentleman in the restaurant I be eat at collapse , it take over an hour and 15 minute from my first call to the arrival of two exhausted paramedic . Basildon hospital have just be downgrade to inadequate in the late Care Quality Commission report . I invite the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care — or the Prime Minister , if he have time in his schedule — to visit Basildon with I so that he can thank the staff for their exceptional work and get to grip with the problem they be face . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this issue and for the two example that he have give . the downgrading of Basildon hospital be deeply disappointing . the Care Quality Commission have set out immediate action for the trust leader to deliver improvement . our decision in government have see a £ 26 billion boost for our NHS , help to deliver over 5 million extra appointment . I gently point out that he be elect to represent a Reform party that would dismantle our nhs and charge people to see their doctor . reform say that it stand up for the work class , but the truth be that it never have — its Members vote to block the Employment Rights Bill again and again . do the Prime Minister agree that only this Government be on the side of work people ? it be labour that be create ten of thousand of job , like in our deal with Turkey ; it be labour that be get rid of zero - hour contract ; and it be labour that be protect worker from unfair dismissal from day one . I be proud that we have deliver the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation — which the Tories and Reform have vote against at every turn , as they always do with any form of worker ’ right and protection . the deal that we strike on Monday with Turkey be worth £ 8 billion , 20 , 000 job and 10 year of work in manufacture the Typhoons . it be possible only because we be a trusted member of NATO . reform would be an absolute nightmare on defence — it would not be a trusted member of NATO because it be Putin - friendly . target for cancer patient begin treatment within 62 day have not be meet by any NHS trust for 10 year — a legacy of the last Conservative Government . if those target have be meet in every month of 2025 , so far nearly 3 , 000 breast cancer patient would have start their treatment on time . will the Prime Minister ensure that the national cancer plan , which I ask for a year ago , make it possible for the 62 - day target to be meet , along with recruit much - need cancer specialist and replace outdated equipment ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this matter , which I know be personal to he . we be invest £ 600 million to improve diagnostic capacity and be roll out new radiotherapy machine , include , I be pleased to say , in his local trust . we have see real improvement , with 148 , 000 more people now have cancer diagnose or rule out within 28 day , but I acknowledge that there be more to do . the national cancer plan will set out how we will go far and deliver the good care for every patient . the big four bank have be allow to abandon our high street , basically close their branch with impunity . between 1999 and 2025 , my constituency alone lose bank in Guide Post , Newbiggin - by - the - Sea , Bedlington and Blyth . meanwhile , those bank make more than £ 40 billion profit in the last year alone — they be absolutely drown in cash . the manifesto pledge to roll out 350 banking hub be to be welcome , but its quirky — almost bizarre — qualifying criterion need detailed revision . will the Prime Minister commit to a wholesale review of personal face - to - face banking , which would enable local resident and business , alongside many vulnerable people , to access their own money in their own time on their own high street ? I know how important face - to - face banking be on our high street . as my hon . Friend say , we have commit to roll out 350 banking hub across the United Kingdom , and over 180 be already open . however , I want to reassure he that 350 be not the limit ; although decision over hub be take independently , they can be roll out wherever a community need one . I be happy to make sure the relevant Minister follow up with detail for he . I be proud that the last Government introduce the triple lock , and we have commit to keep it . order . the problem be , one or two of you be try to catch my eye . if we don ' t get through this , you win ' t get a chance . thank you , Mr Speaker . the triple lock be a great achievement of the previous Government , and we will be keep it . from April , pensioner with private pension as low as £ 2 a month will be pay income tax for the first time . at last year ' s Budget , the Chancellor be clear that extend the freeze on personal allowance would breach Labour ' s manifesto commitment . will the Prime Minister prove the medium speculation wrong , keep his promise and guarantee that there will be no extension to the freeze on personal allowance ? the freeze be introduce by they . that be why it be come in next year . the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , when he be an official , produce a devastating report on the Home Office . read it , it show a Department characterise by disarray and defeatism . there have be 12 Home Secretaries over the past 30 year . some be well than other , but none manage to get the Department to deliver the service that people should be able to expect in this country . will the Prime Minister give the new Home Secretary the necessary resource and policy intervention to ensure that she can be successful ? yes . she be bear down on the challenge at the Home Office — most of they inherit from the last Government . we will make the change necessary , and I have every confidence in the Secretary of State to do so . I call the Father of the House . give all the hatred there be in the world today , be it not a lovely moment to see the King and the Pope pray together in the Sistine chapel ? do it not give we hope that these historic division can be resolve ? do it not give we hope that , despite the fact that Ukraine and Gaza may seem intractable problem , if we have the will to preserve the freedom of all people to live in their own country , and if we have the will to have faith in our common humanity , these problem can be resolve and we can win through ? I agree . I think that the King and the Pope pray together send an incredible message to the world and be very powerful . I agree that if we all work together , we can bring people together , notwithstanding the very many difficulty and challenge around the world and in our own country . it be why we should , so far as we can , unite on national patriotic renewal in this country , rather than have the toxic division we see from some on the Benches opposite . Cambridge be one of the most intensive science and innovation cluster in the world , and that success be base on openness to talent . at the moment , in many american university there be many well - qualified people ponder their future . that present a fantastic opportunity , but it be a global competition . what be our Government do to make the destination of choice for those people the United Kingdom ? my hon . friend ' s constituency be just one example of why the United Kingdom be a world leader in educate and attract the bright mind . our immigration White Paper include change to make sure that more of the world ' s good graduate and entrepreneur start their career and business here . we be also boost our research and development sector with more than £ 86 billion , to ensure that we continue to attract the good and the bright . last weekend I speak to Paul , who run Bah - Humbug Sweets in Littlehampton , and yesterday I hear from Matt , a tech entrepreneur whose british company employ thousand worldwide . their business could not be more different , but they both tell I the same thing : this Government be pile on new taxis , regulation and cost that be make it hard to create job , invest and grow . so when will the Prime Minister stop choke opportunity and start back the people who create job in the first place ? our small business plan be widely welcome by small business across the country , not least because of their input into it . the hon . Lady complain about the measure we have to take at the last Budget , include national insurance — [ interruption . ] the Conservative Front Benchers be say that we choose to take they , but they still can not say whether they would reverse they . they know nothing about the damage they do to our economy . I be wear all black today to demonstrate my sorrow over a fatal stabbing that take place in my constituency yesterday . we all know that one death be one death too many , but I have have two death in my constituency in the last few week . my community need reassurance . Knife crime must end . will the Prime Minister say what more his Government be do to tackle knife crime ? I thank my hon . friend for raise these tragic case , which have a huge impact on family , friend and community . I know that she be a passionate and dedicated campaigner on this issue . every single life lose to knife crime devastate community . that be why we ban zombie knife and ninja sword and be strengthen control on online knife sale . we be also give strong power to the police in our Crime and Policing Bill , which both the Conservatives and Reform vote against . I recently have the privilege of visit Fitzwaryn school , the only special school in my Oxfordshire constituency , to see the excellent care and education it provide . give the urgent need for more funding for additional special school and to enable special school to spread their expertise to mainstream school , what do the Prime Minister say to parent and education worker who be desperately worried by his Government ' s decision announce last week to delay reform to the special educational need and disability system ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise that . I think the broken SEND system have be raise with I more frequently than any other issue at Prime Minister ' s question . we need to review it because it be not work for any of those involve , particularly child and parent . it be important that we get it right and , in so far as we can , that we get a consensus on how we go forward . that be what we be attempt to do . a fourth patient have enter the glioblastoma drug trial set up in memory of my late sister . today , we be join by Ben Trotman , a patient of a similar trial in 2022 that be fund by the Jon Moulton foundation . since then , Ben have marry Emily , and in March they welcome beautiful baby Mabel . when will the National Institute for Health and Care Research spend the £ 40 million give in 2017 for trial on brain tumour , or will glioblastoma patient always have to rely on the grief stricken or the philanthropist for life and hope ? I begin by pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s sister Margaret , who be a guide figure in the Labour party and leave a powerful legacy in help we to tackle brain cancer . we be determined to improve cancer survival rate and hit all NHS waiting time in relation to cancer so that no patient wait long than they should . that be why we be invest £ 1 . 5 billion in new surgical hub and diagnostic scanner to help deliver over 30 , 000 more procedure and over 1 . 2 million diagnostic test . I recently meet about 20 independent local trader in Totnes who be furious that the last bank in town will close in January and that Link have refuse to consider a banking hub . my business and constituent — 1 , 100 of they have sign a petition — deserve well . the Prime Minister just tell the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) that a banking hub can be roll out wherever a community need one , so will he now back my campaign , ask his Ministers to write to Link and instruct it to grant a banking hub to Totnes , and review the eligibility of rural town for such hub so that we can keep our vital high street alive ? I thank the hon . member for raise that . she will have hear the answer I give a few moment ago . I will ensure that she get a meeting with the relevant Minister so that she can put the case for the banking hub in question . Gaza and Hamas ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if she will make a statement on the action take to secure the elimination of Hamas from Gaza and the preservation of the ceasefire . the House will be aware of event over the past 24 hour in Rafah , include report that israeli strike take place last night . estimate of the death toll vary , but the suggestion be that up to 100 people in Gaza have be kill . we understand that these strike follow an attack yesterday afternoon , where responsibility remain unclear . as the Prime Minister say early , we echo the Americans in call for urgent de - escalation and for all party to keep the commitment they have make in the ceasefire agreement . we be clear that Hamas must release the body of all remain israeli hostage . the immediate priority be to ensure the unrestricted flow of aid into Gaza . the israeli Government must urgently lift restriction on aid enter , and international non - governmental organisation must be permit to operate in Gaza to provide the scale of support that be need . civilian can not wait . this government be work closely with our partner to do everything we can to support the transition from the ceasefire to phase 2 of the peace plan . this include the disarmament of Hamas , the deployment of a ceasefire monitor mission , an international security force and the implementation of transitional governance arrangement in Gaza . we be clear that there can be no role for Hamas in the future governance of the strip . in recent day , the Foreign Secretary have speak to the UN Under - Secretary - General for humanitarian affair and emergency relief co - ordination , Tom Fletcher , the egyptian Foreign Minister and the israeli Foreign Minister about the importance of open more crossing and remove restriction on aid . as I tell the House yesterday , the Foreign Secretary and I will be head to the region shortly . on 13 to 15 October , I co - host with the egyptian Government and the Palestinian Authority the first conference to look at how we can leverage sustainable support to Gaza ' s reconstruction . Britain will continue to play our full part in support of the ceasefire and the wide peace initiative . there be not a moment to lose to get relief at scale to those in need and to make progress on the pathway to a last peace . the situation in Gaza be fragile . we all want the ceasefire to hold and endure , and for it to transition into a sustainable end to the conflict , but that require the term of the ceasefire to be adhere to . the scene of mask Hamas gunman carry out summary execution be sicken . their continued hoarding and disruption of aid to starve Gazans be shocking . their refusal to disarm be disturbing , and their failure to return the body of the deceased hostage be distress . the hostage and their family deserve the dignity of a proper burial . their loved one have already be through terrible pain and suffering . no more coffin should be release with the wrong remain . this be a disgusting game that have to end immediately . can the Minister explain what pressure be be exert on Hamas by the UK Government to ensure that they comply with the full term of the agreement and release all the deceased hostage ? yesterday it be report that Hamas gunman kill an Israel Defence Forces soldier , violate the ceasefire and lead to the target IDF action in response . what be the Minister ' s assessment of the threat that Hamas pose , and what practical step be the UK take to support the disarming and elimination of Hamas and the terrorist infrastructure in Gaza ? yesterday , the Secretary of State tell the House that " the UK have be propose different way in which we can help in the process of decommissioning and disarm Hamas , use expertise that we have build up over very many year . " — [ Official Report , 28 October 2025 ; Vol . 774 , c . 150 . ] can the Minister now say what Britain ' s specific role be ? this be a unique situation regard Hamas , with terrorist infrastructure and threat fund by Iran across the region . what action be the Government take to rebuild their relationship with Israel , give the important partnership that we have with Israel ? on aid , what step be be take to increase get aid into Gaza ? give the remark by the US Secretary of State about the United Nations Relief and Works Agency and its role in Gaza , what discussion have take place with the US Administration about UNRWA ' s future and the implication for the UK follow the Government ' s decision to give it million of pound , despite know some of the risk ? we track event in Gaza incredibly carefully . I do not intend to give the House a run commentary on each and every individual incident that take place . the situation remain volatile and messy . I hope not to disappoint hon . member if I avoid give very specific answer on very specific incident . structure be now be put in place , include the Civil - Military Co - ordination Centre , which play a role in seek to verify the fact on the ground where we can . that work obviously take some time . the UK be make a contribution to it , but I do not wish to get ahead of that process from the Dispatch Box . what I will say be that we have be absolutely clear on the threat that Hamas pose to Palestinians , Israelis and the wide world . that be why it be sanction as a terrorist organisation here . we be take a range of measure with our partner to work through the very complicated but necessary step , whether that be about transitional governance in Gaza , the security arrangement that need to follow , the international security force , or a whole range of other question . I assure the shadow Foreign Secretary that we be deep in those discussion . we have be have they over the last few day , and we will have they in the region , too . this be an incredibly complex piece of work , and we remain very focused on it . just quickly on aid , I would like to inform the House that there appear to have be quite a significant uprating of the aid go in , particularly through Kerem Shalom , which be welcome , but the House will know of the centrality of the other crossing , particularly Rafah and the Allenby bridge . they be not yet fully open . aid can not therefore flow in the volume that we would wish to see . we continue to work with all our partner to try to see they reopen . I welcome the statement from my hon . friend . it be fairly clear that the israeli Government agree to the peace deal only because they feel they have to , not because they necessarily want to . after all this time , we still have not get aid flow into Gaza in the way we would all want to see . what further action can the Government take to put pressure on the israeli Government to ensure that all the aid that be need actually get in , and get in quickly ? that be a vital question from my hon . friend , who follow these thing closely . as I say in my last answer , to get to the volume that we need , we will need both Rafah and the Allenby bridge to be reopen . it be welcome that there appear to be an increase of aid through Kerem Shalom — both UN aid and private truck . it be vital that the palestinian private sector , particularly in Gaza , can get good in , restart the market and enable people to go about their normal life . we will , as he would expect , continue to work with all our partner until we see the reopening of those crossing . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the ceasefire be a rare moment of hope despite the challenge ahead , so we share the dismay that extremist on both side continue to look for opportunity to restart the war . we feel the distress of the hostage family be torture by Hamas cruelty , and the grief of those whose family member — woman and child — die under IDF bomb . the fake recovery of body by Hamas , as evidence by the Red Cross , be a cruel and despicable act . yet we can also see that extremist in the Netanyahu Cabinet , who have no interest in peace nor in the right of palestinian civilian , be strain at the leash to retaliate . it be this cycle of violence and suffering that we must break . what step have the Government take to work with regional partner to force Hamas to find and return the remain hostage body and to disarm ? give the importance of maintain President Trump ' s interest and attention , what conversation have the Minister have with US counterpart to ensure that the White House do not lose focus on the prize of peace through a two - state solution ? I can reassure the House that the british Government remain in very regular contact at the high level with the American Government on these question . the American Government , as I think have be clear in recent day , remain very focused on these issue , which be to be welcome and support , as the hon . Member say . he raise important point about the recovery of body . I can confirm that I have be in talk with many of my opposite number across the region — most recently my qatari opposite yesterday — as have the Foreign Secretary , and we continue to make these point with force . I thank the Minister for his answer to the urgent question . he have do a great job over time update this Chamber — he have be terrific through this difficult period . will he say more about the type of aid that he think our country need to send into Gaza to support the people there ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word . there be two area in which aid will be particularly vital . of course , there be the immediate need of the Gazan people . most recently at Sharm el - Sheikh , the Prime Minister announce a £ 20 million contribution to the humanitarian programme to meet those need , which will be focus on water , sanitation and health . there be also a need for the sustainable reconstruction of Gaza . the message that we hear so often from Palestinians be that they wish for their own company and private sector to be engage in that endeavour , and do not simply wish to see the World Bank or the United Nations lead the charge . they , too , want to take agency in those question . that be one reason we involve they so closely in the conference that I hold in October . once again , it be the child of Gaza who seem to bear the brunt of the violence , with report that 35 of they be liquidate overnight in the casual dropping of bomb in retaliation . equally as shocking be the realisation that there will be absolutely no accountability whatsoever for those death , likely no investigation into the targeting or intelligence use , and no sense of any punishment for what be very obviously a significant crime . ally to that be the fact that it have prove quite a handy distraction from the significant violence and brutality take place daily in the west bank . give that we have now recognise Palestine as a sovereign nation , will there be any further measure to deter israeli aggression on palestinian soil ? we have speak in this House on a number of occasion about event in the west bank , and we have announce three wave of sanction — include at the most senior level — against the israeli Government . I reassure the House that we remain very focused on settler violence . we be move into the olive harvesting period , which , as the right hon . Member will know , be a period in which violence be often particularly high . regrettably , we be see similar trend this year . I will have more to say about that later in the day . in relation to the right hon . member ' s first point on individual incident , I refer he to my previous comment . it be important , at such a delicate moment for the ceasefire , that we be as precise as possible . that be why the CMCC be engage in the way that it be . the International Court of Justice have call on Israel to allow aid into Gaza , denounce its occupation of palestinian territory as unlawful , and demand the removal of troop . do the Minister understand that as long as there be boot on the ground and UK arm be still sell to Israel , and unless Palestinians be allow to determine their fate and be free of the violence that they continue to face , they will not have the peace that they need ? I think my hon . friend refer to the ICJ advisory opinion in relation to the Occupied Palestinian Territories . as the House will be aware , there have be another advisory opinion from the ICJ more recently in relation to aid access Gaza . assume that she be ask about the former , we have make significant decision since that advisory opinion — not least on the recognition of the palestinian state . I clarify once again for the House that no british weaponry be use either in Gaza or in the west bank , other than subject to the message relate to F - 35s that we have discuss previously . the Minister quite rightly say that Hamas must disarm and that there can be no place for Hamas in the future of Gaza , yet the White House appear to be license Hamas to conduct internal security operation . what conversation be he have with his US counterpart to reconcile the UK position , which he clearly outline , and that of the US ? as the right hon . member know , disarmament be usually a process . it take time and require serious and greatly complex technical work . we want to ensure that Gaza be free of Hamas and that Hamas be disarm . that will take time , and it be the work that we and the Americans be engage in . both in Gaza , where grassroots peacebuilder will face the immense task of reconciliation , and here at home , where debate have become dangerously polarise , the peace plan and the two - state solution remain the only credible path forward , and we must all be absolutely clear in condemn Hamas , who have no place in the future governance of a free Palestine , and the atrocity that Prime Minister Netanyahu ' s far - right Government continue to commit . put simply , two wrong do not make a right . I urge the Minister to make a statement call for unity at this fractious time . there have obviously be innumerable wrong in the region in recent month . it be important that we now continue the work , move forward with the ceasefire into phase 2 , and see the wide peace plan fully implement . throughout these horrific two year , I have keep try to make the case for the innocent — for the people who do not choose any of this and who be not responsible . it be completely unacceptable that Hamas have not release all the body , and it be equally unacceptable that the israeli authority release 100 palestinian body with just number . what be the Government do to help the palestinian authority to identify all the body that have be return , in both Israel and Palestine , so that family can grieve and the dead can have the dignity that they deserve ? the hon . Member speak with personal experience , real force and a long track record on these issue . my heart go out to family on both side . mortuary process be difficult at the good of time ; one can only imagine the agony that they be face . we be not aware of specific request for support in mortuary service , but if they be any , I be very happy to consider they . let we be clear : peace can not exist under impunity . week into the ceasefire , Israel have once again bomb Gaza , kill over 100 Palestinians , include 35 child , as it continue its genocide . our Government have shamefully yet to reply more than a year and a half after the substantial ruling by the International Court of Justice , which make it absolutely clear that any Government who allow trade with Israel ' s settlement economy be complicit in sustain the illegal occupation of the palestinian territory . british company continue to trade in good and financial service with the settlement , undermine our obligation under international law . when will the Government suspend the UK - Israel trade deal and end all trade link to the settlement , or will the Minister continue to sit back and allow this complicity ? the hon . member refer to the ICJ advisory opinion . I would not want the House to have the impression that the British Government have do nothing . at the centre of that advisory opinion be the question of the status of the Occupied Palestinian Territories . we have be clear , subsequently , in recognise the status of that territory . the hon . member raise important question about the trade in good with settlement . we do not accept trade with settlement on the same basis as trade with Israel . where british company be do so , they be in breach of the trading arrangement , and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs will take an interest . they must ensure that they know who they be trade with and in which territory . if people in settlement wish to falsely label where the thing be produce , it be difficult — as a whole range of nation and state have find — for other to determine . I know that the hon . Member follow these issue closely . he will no doubt be interested in the effort of the Irish Government to try to pass exactly the kind of legislation that he be describe , and in the very many difficulty that they have encounter in so do . we be not in breach of our international obligation . if he could point I to legislation that be in operation and do what he say , I would be grateful to see it , but I think this be one of those question on which we must continue to work with our partner to ensure that the status of the Occupied Palestinian Territories — part of the palestinian state — be understand by all . do the Minister agree that , on top of the absolute imperative of Hamas release the remain hostage body and not only completely disarm but be remove from all governance in Gaza , there must be a widespread deradicalisation programme to undo the damage do by innocent child in Gaza be teach in their textbook , some of which be fund through the UNRWA — an uncomfortable truth — to hate Israel and Jews ? that deradicalisation must happen too . much work have be do in recent month , include under this Government , in relation to the curriculum in Gaza , and I be aware of the concern that have be raise . the funding to UNRWA that we have provide , which the shadow Foreign Secretary refer to , include specific provision for ensure that all reform identify in the Colonna report , include on curriculum , be follow through , and we continue to engage with UNRWA on those question . my colleague have already ask about the current horror in Gaza , so I will pivot to the long term . before this crisis , we see decade of illegal settlement on palestinian territory , so I welcome the Government ' s sanction on extremist settler and israeli Ministers . I do not want we to lose sight of that issue , so will the Minister consider what further step he can take , include trade restriction , to combat illegal settlement ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : there have be a significant increase in settlement and in violence associate with those settlement . this be a continued problem , and we will continue to work at it , alongside our partner , to try to see that terrible trend reverse . I get the impression that the Minister share my despair at what feel like constant impediment to real progress that be be put in place by the impunity of both Hamas and of Benjamin Netanyahu ' s genocidal regime . the United States of America have indicate that Israel ' s response last night be proportionate , and it back the action . I be curious : be that view share by his Majesty ' s Government ? for the reason I give early , I be reluctant to be draw into a day - by - day commentary on the action of both side . what be key be that we keep the ceasefire go , and that be what the Americans have be clear be still in place . this be go to be difficult . the event of the last 24 hour have be difficult , and I be sure that we will have far difficult day ahead . this be not a straightforward path , and if the right hon . Gentleman doesn ' t mind , I will not be draw on an individual instance today . it be now 19 day since 10 October , and there be still hostage family who can not grieve for a love one , and still people starve in Gaza because there be not enough aid , and now we be see the west bank deteriorate . in the last 24 hour , Vice - President Vance have argue that " skirmish " be somehow inevitable . with the great will in the world , the death of 35 child and possibly more be not a " skirmish " . if the international community can do anything , it be to be involve in the detail of ensure that the ceasefire hold . if the Minister will not tell we what the Government ' s response be , will he at least say what possible justification the Israelis have give for the late incident ? I do not wish to spend too much time at the Dispatch Box repeat the statement of other . I be sure that my hon . friend , who follow this issue closely , will have see what the israeli Government provide as justification , the statement from Hamas deny that they be involve in the shooting in Rafah , and the considerable uncertainty that have surround some of those event . the key question for the British Government be whether or not we think the ceasefire can hold , and whether we think we can make all the progress , that my hon . friend describe , on reopen the aid crossing , disarm Hamas , and transitional governance arrangement . I be not for one second take away from the gravity of these incident — life have be lose , child have be kill — but the role that stand before the British Government at the moment be to ensure that the ceasefire do not break down . that do not mean that we do not get into the detail . we have a major general in the Civil Military Co - ordination Centre who be part of the effort to ensure that when violence and threat to the ceasefire occur , we understand the who and the why , but I will not give a running commentary from the Dispatch Box until we be in a position to do so . the Minister have already acknowledge that it be olive harvest season in the west bank — a harvest that support approximately 100 , 000 farm Palestinians — yet we have see more than 150 attack by settler against those farmer . how be the Government hold the israeli Government to account to stop those settler act with impunity ? as the hon . Member rightly identify , this be a period of particular danger . we have repeatedly condemn the increase in violence that be associate with settlement , and we have make sanction against that . we will continue to make those point strongly in this harvest season as we do during the last . all Members have be appal by the scene that emerge from Gaza in the wake of the ceasefire , show Hamas execute people in the street as they seek to reassert control over the area . do the Minister agree that such scene simply reinforce that Hamas be nothing but terrorist and murderer , and that they must have nothing to do with the future governance of Palestine ? I agree with my hon . friend . the scene we have see , which the shadow Foreign Secretary refer to , be chilling . Hamas be terrorist and they can have no role . the work to remove and disarm they will not be easy , but it be the vital and necessary next step . yesterday it emerge that Hamas do know where the body of the remain hostage be , as video evidence emerge of they play game with one body , remove it from a building , bury it , then bring along the International Red Cross and pretend that they have find it and dig it up . do the Minister and the Government condemn that , and what more can they do with our international ally and the Gulf nation to put pressure and leverage on Hamas to return all the remain body immediately ? the hon . member be right : Hamas must return all the body immediately . we have make that point to our regional partner with force , and we will continue to do so . the war crime carry out by Israel last night , include the killing of 35 child , be a continuation of the horror that we have see over the last two year visit on the people of Palestine by a state lead by Prime Minister Netanyahu , who be currently want for war crime . the Government rightly bring wide - range sanction on Russia for its unlawful invasion of Ukraine and its war crime , but be it the truth that unless there be real consequence for Netanyahu and Israel for these war crime , they will carry on ? a lack of action and sanction be give the green light and treat they with kid glove , so be now the time for extensive widespread sanction on Israel ? why be Israel treat differently from Russia , and why be Netanyahu treat differently from Putin ? we have discuss sanction in this House many time , include the three wave during my time in government , and include against two Ministers . the priority now have to be to make the ceasefire work , to move to phase 2 , and to get through all these incredibly important and complex question , and that be the focus of this Government . over the past decade there have be a stark absence of diplomatic effort to address the core issue of the conflict , and the continued advocacy for a two - state solution . civil society organisation have play a vital role during this time in enter that chasm . will the Minister outline how the Government be provide help to those organisation ? for example , will it be through the recently announce international fund for israeli - palestinian peace ? we remain focused on support the whole range of civil society . the hon . member will be aware of some of the proposal in the Knesset , which we have oppose and to which I refer in my opening remark . we will continue to conduct that work and will have more to say about the fund she refer to in the come day and week . the ceasefire have be one of the few positive achievement in what have be an unending tale of misery , violence , and horrific suffering , and all those involve in achieve that ceasefire deserve the gratitude and recognition that have be receive . now as Israel continue to kill Gazan child , and Hamas refuse to disarm , will the Minister reassure we that everyone involve in achieve a ceasefire in the US , the UK , and the middle east be equally concentrated and focus on keep the peace and make the ceasefire work as a beginning of a peace process ? can he far reassure we , give our recognition of Palestine , that the palestinian voice will be hear ? I reassure the House that I be absolutely certain that everyone in the UK who be work on this be focus on ensure that the ceasefire stick in the way that my hon . friend describe . indeed , I can tell from our many contact with the american system that they remain similarly focused . they want this ceasefire to stick , and they be work to try to ensure that it do . will the Minister give assurance to the House that this Government be utterly commit , along with our international ally , to eradicate Hamas ' s terrorist infrastructure , and that they will not cease until Hamas have be fully dismantle and obliterate , and the remain of those hostage murder in captivity have be return ? as I say to the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , we be commit to ensure that those body be return and that Hamas be disarm . the infrastructure of Hamas be not just heavy weapon and small weapon , as have be the case in other conflict ; there be also a network of tunnel under Gaza that have pose a very significant threat to Israel . dismantle they be a difficult and complex engineering and military task , but it need to be include as part of the process . I strongly welcome the Minister ' s commitment to work to support Chevening scholar to leave Gaza , particularly the decision to extend that support to student with full scholarship . will the Minister update the House on the late step that the Government have take to support Gazan student who wish to study in the UK , particularly those I have be argue about who have dependant who they understandably do not wish to leave in Gaza ? if you will permit I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will say a little bit about the wide evacuation operation . evacuation have continue , include on Monday and Tuesday this week , both for student , who my hon . friend have be so doughty in pursuing , and for highly medically vulnerable child who can benefit from UK support . that work continue , and I have be work alongside the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) . we have be able to help many people to get to the UK to transform their life by get vital medical assistance and educational opportunity , which I hope will allow all of they to make a real contribution to the future of Palestine . the operation to get people in and out of Gaza have be incredibly complex , not least give the most recent closure . I be afraid that there be very strict limit on how many dependant anyone can bring out . we have make an update to our policy in relation to student who be fully fund , which say that we can support a very small number of dependant to leave . I know that many hon . member with an interest in this have engage with I directly , and I reiterate that these operation remain incredibly complex . I be happy to talk to all hon . member who have an interest , but there be neither infinite capacity in the UK to support people , nor , even with our partner , unlimited capacity to get people out . we have make an announcement and I pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend and many other across the House , but I wish to keep people ' s expectation suitably focus on the very many constraint that remain on these operation . renew violence in Gaza continue against a backdrop of unimaginable human suffering . million remain in desperate need of food , water and medical supply , yet aid convoy continue to face unacceptable obstacle . the UN report yesterday that many of the 177 aid truck that enter Kerem Shalom be limit by congestion on coastal road , in part because of damage to that aid route , mean that they be force to limit their supply of aid far below what be agree . as yet , aid route be not fully open , but Gazans can not wait any long . aid restriction should never have be there in the first place . what specific pressure be the Government exert on Prime Minister Netanyahu and the israeli authority to get the route fully open and the aid in ? the hon . Member ask an important question . as I say early , it be welcome that there have be an increase in Kerem Shalom , but there be congestion too . the UN , the private sector and a number of donor who be not use the UN be all try to get aid through Kerem Shalom , so the congestion that she describe be perhaps to be expect . it be vital that other route , include the Allenby bridge with Jordan and the Rafah crossing , which have already be the subject of much discussion , reopen too . we be work with our partner on these question . we want to see progress soon — I would like to see it in day — but this have prove to be more complex than I have hope and talk be ongoing . I place on record my thank to the Minister for his tireless work on the issue in the middle east . the devastation continue for palestinian people live in Gaza , whether from the murderous intent of Hamas or from further strike from Israel , which reportedly kill 104 people , include 46 child , overnight . alongside that , Gaza ' s healthcare system have be decimate , and it be always woman and girl who end up be the bad victim in such circumstance . do the Minister agree and will he update the House on how further aid can be direct to support woman and girl in particular , and to rebuild healthcare system in Gaza ? these be vital question from my hon . friend , who I know have remain very focused on the issue . the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West , who have kindly join I on the Front Bench , and I remain focused on the issue . as access to Gaza become easy , as we all hope that it do , among the most urgent action be ensure that medical supply , personnel and infrastructure be in place to meet the very significant need of Gazan people . we will continue to work closely on that . every day since the ceasefire take place , at least 20 Palestinians in Gaza have be kill by the IDF . there have be numerous other breach of the ceasefire and continue military activity in the west bank . will the Minister assure the House that Britain no long fly RAF aeroplane over Gaza , no long co - operate with Israel on its security arrangement , and no long supply any weapon to Israel , because of its frequent breach of the ceasefire and its continued abuse of the people of Gaza and the west bank ? I have set out our arrangement in relation to arm and the very significant suspension that we make from the Dispatch Box a number of time — they remain in place . the right hon . Member ask about RAF flight ; I think he refer to the RAF flight that be attempt to find hostage in Gaza . those flight have stop . the hostage have be release , so there be no further function for those flight and they have end . one crucial factor in achieve the current ceasefire be the unprecedented declaration at the end of July by all 22 member of the Arab League , call on Hamas to release the hostage , lie down their arm and give up power in Gaza . that be hugely important in show Hamas that they have run out of road . what role do the UK and our partner have in influence that declaration ? do the Minister agree that our strong diplomatic relation , lead by our excellent diplomat , have a positive impact ? I associate myself very much with my hon . friend ' s comment . he know that neck of the wood well . our diplomat be excellent . I be pleased to be in New York in July when the declaration he describe be make . it be part of a declaration that include our own commitment in relation to the palestinian state , which lead to our recognition in September . we all hope desperately for a just peace in Gaza . I serve alongside the Minister as a diplomat in the middle east and as a soldier . give that , I particularly welcome the propose international security force , but it be essential that such a force include troop from arab country and possibly from western country too , in order to reassure the Israelis , and that it be there for the long term and ready to take casualty . will the Minister update the House on what progress there have be on the composition and the mandate of the potential force ? my friend the hon . and gallant Member be right to focus on some of these practical question . he , like I , serve in country where peacekeeping force be unable to keep the peace and unwilling to take casualty , and be therefore unable to fulfil their mandate . these be some of the most central and most delicate question around the ISF . I hope he will forgive I for not give a detailed commentary at this time , but I expect to return to the House to provide more detail when I be able . there have be recent press report that the israeli Government have be arm faction within Gaza in order to destabilise Hamas . can the Minister comment on any of those report ? what be the position of the british Government on that ? as I say early , I will not provide extensive commentary on report , but clearly safety and security for Gazans will involve palestinian authority able to ensure law and order . those who have be live in Gaza have suffer terribly ; there have be widespread looting and violence . I be sure many will pore over the question of who those faction and criminal be and who be support they . the key thing now be that security need to return to Gaza , and that security can not be provide by the mask Hamas gunman that the shadow Foreign Secretary rightly refer to at the outset , so that work continue . the Minister have rightly emphasise the importance of secure the swift and urgent supply of aid to all those in need in Gaza , but he have also mention that some of the crossing remain disrupted or fully close . what reason have be give for the continue delay in reopen all the crossing ? there have be some public reporting of israeli concern about the Allenby bridge , particularly after the violence there . Rafah be a subject that we have discuss many time in this House , and it remain an absolutely critical artery . it be true to say that in both the Allenby crossing and Rafah there will need to be agreement between both country . I hope that agreement can be secure quickly , that Israel remove the restriction in place , and that we see the free flow of aid through those crossing very shortly . I thank the Minister for his statement and his focus on maintain the ceasefire . I stand in solidarity with the many ordinary Palestinians live under Hamas and with the family in Israel wait for their love one to be return , but I can not conclude that what Netanyahu have do in the last 24 hour be proportionate in any way . I continue to hope and pray for peace . with peace will come the opportunity to rebuild Gaza , but I do not see how that can be do when Israel hold so many people without charge , particularly healthcare worker . my constituent Eman be really concerned about Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , who be be hold . do the Minister agree it be really important that people , particularly healthcare worker , should not be hold without charge ? be he have negotiation with Israel on their release ? due process be incredibly important . I have raise this specific case with the israeli authority . it be important that adequate explanation be provide where people be detain , particularly doctor who be provide vital , lifesave work . we will continue to take this matter up with the Israelis . overnight , more than 100 palestinian civilian be kill by israeli airstrike . once again , innocent civilian be suffer a collective punishment , this time impose for breach of the ceasefire by Hamas . unless this Government believe that all palestinian civilian be Hamas and be therefore legitimate target , the Minister must unequivocally condemn these attack on innocent civilian . will he unequivocally condemn those attack and call they what they be : an egregious breach of international humanitarian law ? I think I have cover those question already in this session , but let I be absolutely clear : all Palestinians be very clearly not part of Hamas . so many Palestinians want to see an alternative . they want to see this process succeed and to see the ceasefire hold , and that be where our focus be . the Israel Defence Forces say this morning that they have " renew enforcement of the ceasefire " . the strike be report to have kill 20 woman and 46 child follow the death of one idf soldier . President Trump ' s peace plan make provision for arab state to commit stabilisation force . I appreciate the Minister ' s point that he can not provide a running commentary on such a stabilisation force , but do he share my view that after a ceasefire , the protagonist be the least well - place to enforce peace ? I be not sure that I totally follow . the composition of the ISF be not yet determined , as I say to the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague . we will no doubt discuss this matter far in the House once we be in a position to provide a full update . a number of state have indicate some willingness to provide troop to the ISF . I will clarify for the House that we have provide military personnel into the region , but it be into the Civil - Military Co - ordination Centre , which have a different tasking to the ISF . these be all complex question that be very much in negotiation at the moment . when some of those matter be more clear and finalise , I be happy to return to the House . it be horrify that Netanyahu have bomb Gaza in a clear violation of the ceasefire . the suffering in Gaza be unimaginable . to move forward , we must demand justice and reparation for all victim of atrocity crime and hold to account the perpetrator . what be the Government do to uphold UK obligation under international law to bring to justice those responsible for war crime , crime against humanity or genocide ? what be the Government do to push for journalist to be allow in , give the israeli Government ' s outrageous restriction , which prevent they from document the horror ? international justice and accountability be of vital importance . that be why this Government remove the block on the International Criminal Court and continue to support that very important body , and that be why we continue to support the International Court of Justice . they be the competent court and the process by which justice will be secure , and we continue to support they in those endeavour . be we expect to believe that in the month and year ahead , the Government will stand by their promise that Hamas must be fully disarm and play no part in the Government in Palestine ? I ask because a previous Labour Government , under Tony Blair , with the present National Security Adviser by his side , promise the people of Northern Ireland that the IRA and other terrorist would be totally disarm through decommissioning . that do not happen : supposedly decommission weapon continue to be able to be use to kill , and we end up with the surrogate of the IRA in government . will it be any different in Gaza ? one thing I have learn so far as a politician be not to make comparison between the middle east and practically anywhere else , and certainly not with Northern Ireland . I will allow the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland to answer the hon . and learn Gentleman ' s particular question about the current arrangement . clearly , peace be possible — we have demonstrate it here and in many other place . that have to the be the work of the Government , and that be what we be focus on . it appear that this ceasefire be go in the same vein as previous announcement on ceasefire — primarily one side , the Palestinians , cease ; the other side , Israelis , continue to fire . some 20 Palestinians have be kill every single day since this so - call last ceasefire . last night be the most violent , with more than 104 Palestinians kill and the targeting of a cancer patient camp . we all appreciate the Minister come in week in , week out to answer these question — I certainly do — but give that the UK have not stop arm Israel since the genocide begin , can he confirm how many export licence to Israel have be grant in Labour ' s time in office ? I hope the hon . Member will forgive I , but I do not have the number precisely to hand . I do an extensive hearing in front of the Foreign Affairs Committee in which we go through the number in some detail , but let I focus on the key point . we have suspend all arm that could be use in this way ; we be not sell bomb or bullet that could be use in Gaza or the west bank . the munition that he and so many other in this country see explode last night on their television screen be not british . I thank the Minister very much for his answer , his tone and his well - choose word ; we appreciate they . the moment that there be report of shot fire at israeli soldier in Rafah and of an IDF soldier be murder , my heart sink — as the heart of many other probably do — because I know that the tenuous peace have be break by Hamas . do the Minister accept that retaliation be inevitable ? what role can the Government play , along with our ally , to rebuild the fragile peace process and disarm Hamas , remove their weapon and destroy they ? real and lasting peace can then actually happen . I thank the hon . member for his important question and his as ever courteous tone . the work be important . the threat to the ceasefire be many and varied , and we will continue to work with our partner in exactly the way that he describe . Asylum seeker : MOD Housing ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department if she will make a statement on the plan use of MOD barrack to house asylum seeker . the use of hotel to house asylum seeker be a disgrace . as member on both side of the House know , it be a practice that become widespread long before this Government enter office , and it be one of the clear indicator of the shamble that we inherit last summer . People across the country be frustrate , if not furious . we wholeheartedly agree , and that be why since the general election we have be work to address the chronic issue in the asylum system that have be allow to build up over several year . at their peak under the previous Government , there be 400 hotel in use ; now , the number be around 200 . that reduction have be achieve despite what the Home Affairs Select Committee have call a " dramatic increase in demand " . under this government , decision on asylum application be up , as be asylum - relate return , while system cost be down . however , as my right hon . friend the Home Secretary have make clear , we must go far and fast . that mean move at pace to fulfil the Government ' s commitment to close every asylum hotel . work to facilitate this exit be ongoing , and the asylum accommodation taskforce be work across Government to deliver alternative asylum accommodation . I can confirm to the House that plan be under way for the temporary use of Ministry of Defence site at Cameron barrack in Inverness and at Crowborough training camp in East Sussex for the purpose of asylum accommodation . under the plan , a total of around 900 people will be house across both site . those two site be among a number of option that we be look at as we seek to alleviate the pressure on the system and drive down hotel use , and while this be a complex and fast - move operating environment , there be a strong understanding within the Home Office of the importance of local engagement . my official have be engage directly and regularly in advance of this announcement with the Scottish Government , the relevant council and local service provider , and will continue to do so . whatever decision be make regard specific location , we be clear that the impact on community must be minimise . the safety and security of people live and work in the surround area be paramount . a crisis of the scale we be leave with be always go to take time to correct , but we know that the british people be impatient for change , as be we . this government will do whatever it take to end hotel use , fix the broken asylum system , and secure our border . I thank the Minister for his answer , and the Speaker for allow I to ask this urgent question . I get a call yesterday at 7 . 10 in the morning from the BBC , who ask , " what be your comment on the Cameron barracks be take over and use to house migrant ? " I know that place well , because I be base there when be in the Army . it be residential — it be surround by housing that be very close by — and what be more , it be only 10 minute from Inverness city centre . I ask for a briefing from the Home Office and get one , which be wonderful . what I learn be that there be go to be up to 309 single male asylum seeker there , who will move in at the end of November . I have a few question arise from that . first , why be I not engage in any discussion ? why be the Scottish Government not engage in conversation , and why be Highland council and other authority just inform , rather than engage , which be the word that the Minister use ? secondly , do Home Office official consider the fact that the site be in a city centre before they agree to take it on ? why be it okay to close town centre migrant hotel in the south of England , yet plan to house 300 migrant man in Army quarter in Inverness city centre ? it be effectively the same thing . thirdly , will the Minister meet I to discuss the Home Office halt its plan to utilise Cameron barrack to house migrant ? I be grateful for those question , and recognise the anger that the hon . Gentleman have convey . I be sorry that he hear in the way he do , and of course I will have that meeting with he . it can be difficult to sequence these thing correctly ; as all colleague know , we live in an age of misinformation and disinformation , and try to sequence who hear what and when can be sticky . nevertheless , the hon . Gentleman should not have hear in the way he do . the same be true for the hon . member for Sussex Weald ( Ms Ghani ) , whose duty as Deputy Speaker preclude she from take part in these proceeding . I recognise the strength of feeling that she have convey to I in no uncertain term about her view and the view of her constituent , and their opposition to these plan . I will continue to engage with the hon . Gentleman and the hon . Lady , and I encourage her local authority also to do so . again , I recognise the strength of feeling . turn to the hon . Gentleman ' s other question , of course the location of the site have be consider . we be look at all site in that way ; whether it be a hotel or dispersed accommodation , the local context be always consider . I would gently say that both site have be use recently for the afghan resettlement scheme , so there be a clear understanding across Government of the capability of those site and their location . however , I want to be very clear about what be at stake here . the hon . Gentleman talk about the closure of hotel , and we know that hotel be an exceptionally challenging issue in this country . too many people come to this country have be sell the dream that they will be house in a hotel and will be able to work illegally in our economy . today , we have announce that we have have our good ever year for illegal work raid , with 1 , 000 people deport as a result , but we have to break the model that say , " you ' ll get to live in a hotel and work illegally . " close the hotel be a really important part of that work . I call the shadow Minister . since this government enter office , the illegal immigration crisis have get seriously bad on every front . the number of people arrive in this country illegally be up , and not just by a little bit ; arrival be up by more than 50 % compare with the same period before the election . before the election , the number of migrant stay in hotel have fall by 47 % . it have now go up , and few of the people break into this country illegally on a small boat be be remove . we be now in a position where the Government be put forward a proposal that , in opposition , they describe as " an admission of failure " . the Defence Minister , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , be unable to say whether the plan will save we money or cost we more . we also hear that this proposal will involve accommodation on a site that be directly next to home provide to the family of our brave armed force personnel . have the Government consult those family about this plan ? all this demonstrate that we need much strong proposal than the weak effort the Government be preside over . that be why we have put forward the border plan , which go beyond tinker with the system . if we want to stop the use of this accommodation , we need to change completely how we approach this problem and ensure that all illegal immigrant be remove within a week . it be a comprehensive plan base on our proposal to leave the European Convention on Human Rights , reform how our asylum system operate , and remove the blockage that have prevent the removal of illegal entrant . it be a proposal that be not only practical , but fair , as those who come to the UK illegally should not be house at the taxpayer ' s expense in ever great number . People need to know that if they break into this country , they will be detain and deport . that be how we will solve this crisis . I will finish by ask the question we be all wonder : when will the asylum hotel close ? will the Government commit to close all asylum hotel within a year ? what an optimistic effort by the hon . gentleman ! he invite we to believe that he and his colleague have work out in 14 month how to fix a system that they break over a period of 14 year . the british public see through that in July 2024 , and I suspect that they will see through it again . the hon . Gentleman talk about removal . of course , removal be up — over 35 , 000 since we take office . when it come to the question of why we have hotel in the first place , what be the original sin ? it be that conservative colleague stop assess claim . that be why we have hotel , and it be why we have make the effort to shift the backlog . the reality be that the system be break . it be a very simple equation — it be a complicated issue , but a simple equation . we be a very popular country and people want to come here . of course we be popular — we be the great country in the world , with brilliant institution — but that popularity be also due to the fact that people be sell a dream that they will be able to come here , live in a hotel and work illegally . until and unless we attack those two fundamental factor , nothing will change . we know that the Conservatives do not oppose the plan we be debate today , because after all , they use two military site themselves . the Home Affairs Committee this week release a report into asylum accommodation and it be utterly damning . in 2019 , the Conservative Government bind the country into asylum contract that have be disastrous for local community , disastrous for asylum seeker themselves and disastrous for the taxpayer , but they have be brilliant for private provider who have make ten of million of pound of profit . it be right that the Government be look at alternative way to house asylum seeker that will be well for community , asylum seeker and the taxpayer . Scotland be a welcoming , tolerant country , and we be willing to play our part , but will the Minister give we assurance that he will learn from the mistake of the previous Government and work with local community , local authority and devolve administration to make sure that this work and solve the problem we have see ? I have study that report closely . there have be more than a thousand lesson learn from the previous Government ' s attempt to solve this issue . we be take those in hand to make sure we do it right . my hon . friend talk about the cost . I be pleased that in our time in office we have reduce the cost to the taxpayer of the asylum system by £ 1 billion , include £ 500 million across the hotel estate , but it be clear , include from his Committee ' s report , that we have to go far , and that be what we be do . we be , within the parameter of the contract we inherit , sweat thing . where there be money to be recoup , we will recoup that for the taxpayer , but it come back to the fundamental question that if we want to spend less money on this type of activity , we have to have few people in the estate . that start with break the attraction that they have to come to this country . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we share the Minister ' s concern about the approach of the official Opposition . clearly , they leave we with this mess and now they feign outrage . it appear that this Government ' s proposal , sadly , be to decant asylum seeker from one kind of unsuitable and costly accommodation to another . instead , they should be tackle the real issue : speed up asylum decision so that those with no right to stay be return and those with a valid claim can work , pay tax and integrate . I will pick up the Minister ' s point about the difficulty of sequence communication . as a Member of Parliament who have an asylum hotel open in his constituency , I be inform several week in advance . I offer a much well alternative form of accommodation somewhere else nearby . as I find out , the Home Office be determined to open a hotel , because that alternative be not take up . the alternative accommodation would have be more appropriate , and my constituency feel let down . the Government have promise to end the use of hotel by 2029 , yet they have put forward no credible plan to achieve that . the Lib Dems have set out a plan for end hotel use in just six month by declare a national emergency and set up Nightingale processing centre to bring down the backlog . will the Home Secretary match the Lib Dem plan by declare that national emergency today ? will the Minister confirm whether the plan that he have put forward mean speed up decision and return those with no right to stay , or do it simply mean shift large number of asylum seeker from one form of accommodation to another ? will he share what assessment have be make of the relative merit of Army barrack that be in or next to urban area , as oppose to those in rural area ? finally , will he concede that cut overseas development spending will drive more people away from conflict zone to seek safety in Europe and onward unsafely on to boat in the english channel ? I recognise the spirit with which the hon . Gentleman and his colleague speak , and I share their zeal . indeed , I think we can demonstrate it through our action to speed up decision . that be why we have make such a significant increase in decision making . our commitment to speed up removal be a matter of record . that be why we have see well over 35 , 000 people with no right to stay removed since we take office . I gently say to he that as we deal with the backlog leave by the Conservatives , we still have a significant cohort of people who will need to be house and accommodate while their claim be process . additionally , there be an attraction . we see that in the number who seek to cross the channel to come here . until and unless we address that element , the suggestion from the hon . Gentleman alone will not create that deterrent . what we offer today be a significant and real deterrent to break that pull factor . on his point on overseas development , he will know the commitment make by the Prime Minister . we want to return that spending to 0 . 7 % as soon as we can , because it make a huge impact across the world , and we want to continue to do that . I have visit the hotel in Newcastle where up to 400 asylum seeker be live . I have listen to local community concern . I have speak to the asylum seeker , the hotel owner , the programme manager , the police , and local stakeholder . it be clear that the policy of housing asylum seeker in hotel accommodation , institute by the last government , be fail everybody concern , except for possibly the private provider profit from the contract . Newcastle city council be in discussion with the Home Office about alternative model for accommodation that well meet the need of the city and of asylum seeker . can the Minister tell we how those discussion be go and when we can expect to see progress ? my hon . friend will know that in the spending review , £ 500 million be set aside for work with local government to try to identify those exact site that she be talk about and to bring they forward for use . in the spirit of what the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) say , and in the spirit of what other colleague have say about early engagement , there may well be well way to build public confidence in what be be provide and that it be in the right location with the right support . those conversation with the city of Newcastle be ongoing , and we will be work hard to bring they to a satisfactory conclusion . let I begin by make it crystal clear that Madam Deputy Speaker , my hon . friend the Member for Sussex Weald ( Ms Ghani ) , be do everything she can to object to proposal to house illegal migrant at the Crowborough training camp in her constituency , just over the border from mine . the site be not suitable . it be previously consider by the Home Office and reject , but it seem that we now have a council willing , for ideological reason , to roll over to the suggestion that it be use . council can object to these proposal , so what objection have the Green and Liberal Democrat - lead Wealden council make to the proposal to use the Crowborough training camp to house hundred of asylum seeker ? as I have set out , we have have significant discussion with local authority . they challenge our assumption , and they challenge scale and location , as be always the case . nevertheless , I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that when he say , " no , it be not the right location " , he should be clear about what he be say yes to . be he say yes to the continue use of hotel , or be he simply say they should be somewhere else ? I know those conversation will continue , and I encourage the local authority to engage with local member of Parliament . I be often ask on the doorstep what we be do to tackle this issue . will the Minister please set out more information on what the Government be do to stop small boat arrival in the first place , so that we can close more hotel more quickly ? my hon . friend raise the crucial part of the equation . over the past year , we have make significant inroad in our effort to disrupt organise crime and the people who use this model to prey on other . we have do 350 disruption — an increase of 40 % on what we inherit . these be embed gang who have have a six - year head start on this Government thank to the Conservatives . that work be vital , but underpin the gang ' business model be the attraction of this country . we have to remove the hotel and illegal working to make sure we be not so attractive . my colleague on the Home Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) make an excellent point . the asylum accommodation contract sign under the previous Tory Government gift scandalously high profit to private provider . frankly , it be a PPE - type scandal . clearspring ' profit soar from £ 6 , 000 per employee in 2020 to £ 300 , 000 per employee in 2024 , with its owner Graham King enter the Sunday Times rich list . vast sum be still be waste on asylum hotel accommodation under those same flawed arrangement , despite this Government have be in power for 16 month , and the number house in hotel have increase by 8 % over the past year . will the Minister please explain how any new asylum accommodation will be provide in a cost - effective manner that do not allow private company to make further obscene profit on the back of the UK ' s hard - work people ? we have to work within the parameter of the contract that we inherit from the Conservatives , but I can give the hon . Gentleman the assurance that we have reduce that bill by £ 1 billion , include £ 500 million from hotel . we be look far at the profit - share element of those contract , and be recoup money for the taxpayer by make sure we get the good deal possible . as the Minister point out , and as Shaun Fraser , the labour candidate for Inverness , say yesterday , this situation have arise because of the broken asylum system that the Labour Government inherit from the Conservatives , but it must be handle sensitively . while I sympathise with my friend , the hon . member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) , give how he hear this news , I must caution he against lean into language about Army patrol , security fence and the security of young woman . as I have say , this must be handle sensitively , and it fall to we all to set a reasoned tone when express reasoned concern . may I ask the Minister how he will deal with the situation locally , and what talk he will have with Highland council , and other council , when it come to deal with this proposal ? my hon . friend have make an important point about the effectiveness of these site . we have engage with the local authority , the health service , the police service and the fire service to ensure that the impact on the community be as light as possible . the experience from Napier barrack and from RAF Wethersfield be that if it be do thoughtfully it can be do well , and that be our commitment . my constituent be increasingly concerned about the rise number of house in multiple occupation . can the Minister assure I that any overflow from these basis will not lead to an increase reliance on HMOs in our town and city , include Walsall , and may I ask what far power the Government will give council to protect the private rent sector from be squeeze out as a result of this ? the right hon . Lady have alight on an important point . there be , of course , an option open to the government : if we want to close the hotel , we can simply pull the lever of house in multiple occupation and change the character of community across the country , but we be clearly not do that . we want to find the right balance , and disperse accommodation be an important tool that local authority have in relation to people flee violence , people with substance abuse and , in this instance , people who be seek refuge . as I have say , we must find the right balance , and that be the choice . opposition member want the hotel to be close , and they apparently do not want we to use military barrack , have do so themselves . they also do not want we to use house in multiple occupation . that be an unserious approach to what be a very serious problem . the Conservatives leave our asylum system in an absolute mess , and now they claim to care about consultation and community impact . where be that when my community get two asylum hotel more than 10 year ago ? this Government , by contrast , be bring the number down while increase the number of people with no right to be in the country who be return , which show how seriously we take the issue . can the Minister please tell my constituent what more the Government be do to close every single asylum hotel ? I can give that clear message to my hon . friend ' s constituent form the Dispatch Box . we will close every single asylum hotel , as we commit ourselves to do at the time of the general election . my hon . friend have raise an important point , and I acknowledge the shortcoming in this exercise that be raise by the hon . member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) and also by Madam Deputy Speaker , the hon . member for Sussex Weald ( Ms Ghani ) . we want to reset the Home Office ' s relationship with local government , which be why we have have those conversation , but we need to ensure that local decision maker and local leader be wire into these decision early so that we can collectively ensure that they be a success . my colleague Shirley - Anne Somerville , the Cabinet Secretary for Social Justice in the Scottish Government , write to the Secretary of State about this issue on 26 September , seek an urgent meeting with Highland council and the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities . no reply to that letter be receive , and the first she know of the decision be when she hear about it on the radio , as many of the rest of we do . asylum seeker , by their very nature , be flee conflict and persecution . many require wraparound support , have suffer significant mental and , in some case , physical trauma . if there be no support package in place , thing be not go to go well . the arrival of 300 people in Inverness in such a short space of time put a huge strain on local service . what be the Minister do to address those issue with the Scottish Government and with Highland council ? that point about wraparound support be very important as well . the point of use these site be that we be able to provide local amenity and vital service for that cohort without have to rely on the local health service . we be have those conversation with health authority , police and fire service and the local council to ensure that that support be in place , so that , as I say early , the impact on the exist community be as light as possible . I welcome the urgency with which minister be seek to end Tory - create asylum hotel use — which do not work for those flee persecution , or for local community such as those in Falkirk — while also lower the cost of the asylum system and speed up processing . will the Minister elaborate on the criterion that the Department will apply in decide the sequence of asylum hotel closure , and on how they will be apply fairly and equitably across all the nation and region of the United Kingdom ? my hon . friend tempt I , as he have tempt I on multiple occasion — this time to give he detail on the sequence . I know of his vigour in closing hotel in his community . as I have say , we will close every single one of those hotel , and none will be open a day long than they have to be . my hon . friend will have to bear with we a little long in respect of the sequence , but we will be clear about the decision that we make when we make they . well , what a bolt from the blue ! there have be huge concern throughout the Wealden district since the news break of a " boat to barracks " plan in Sussex . the council leadership urgently need to speak to local mp , as do many other councillor , to assuage deep concern about hundred of asylum seeker come to a very rural part of Sussex . do this simply mean that people live in the Copthorne hotel will move to the barrack ? will the Minister kindly try to work with the Wealden district council leadership , so that public meeting can be hold locally to discuss the significant issue that have arise and the discussion that have take place ? what be happen about the planning process , and the community and police support ? many people need to understand these matter , give the unexpected choice of such a countryside location . the hon . Member have raise a number of important question . of course we want to work with the local authority to ensure that the public be give the information and the reassurance that they need ; as I have say , there be always a great deal of misinformation and disinformation , and I can give that commitment to she . she will have hear what I say about the timeliness of engagement with colleague , and I reiterate my sadness in that regard . we will do well for she and her colleague in secure the answer that they need as leader in the community . let I also reiterate , to she and her community , that we intend this to have the light possible impact on they . it have be prove to be do at Wethersfield and at Napier , and I have no doubt that we can do it again . the number of boat crossing have rise from 800 in 2018 , before we leave the European Union , to 40 , 000 a year because of Brexit . can the Minister provide some clarity on the measure that he be take to help solve this immigration crisis at its core , without fall back on yet another fake silver bullet — leave the european convention on human right , which some opposition party be suggest — which would get rid of not only the right of asylum seeker but those of my constituent ? my hon . friend have make an important point about the global nature of this challenge — [ interruption . ] it be like be at a party you be not invite to at the moment , Madam Deputy Speaker . my hon . friend , and other member , will know of the work that we be do with France , our most immediate neighbour , and the importance of scale up our return pilot . she will also know of our engagement on the continent with regard to organise crime . these be highly sophisticated global network , and a global response be require to break they . will the Minister ensure in future that member be give some notice of the Government ' s plan relate to MOD accommodation ? will he ensure that the gross discourtesy that have be visit on the hon . member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) in this particular case be not repeat , and that community may even be able to suggest to the Government alternative , where alternative exist ? as for the pull factor to which he rightly allude , will he ensure that accommodation that be offer up by the Ministry of Defence be at the more austere end of the spectrum ? it be certainly the case that the man and woman of our armed force , family and veteran be heartily feed up with see people not be put in accommodation that apparently be not fit , but that apparently be fit to hold soldier , sailor and airman . these site be austere accommodation . the whole point be to change the narrative that be sell to people on social medium — that they can come here , live in a hotel and work illegally . the accommodation will be functional and it will be humane , but it will be basic . I can give the right hon . member that assurance , because the point be exceptionally important . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about engagement with colleague , I hope he will know , from the short time I shadow he in opposition , that I would never knowingly be discourteous to colleague — I value colleague across this place , of all party and none . I have reflect a lot on what have happen in this case , exactly as he say , and yes , certainly with regard to colleague , I need to do more directly . I have take that on board as part of those reflection . the Refugee Council have a clear proposal that would allow the Minister to close asylum hotel within a year without resort to barrack : a one - off scheme to give a time - limit permission to stay , subject to rigorous security check , to people from country that mean they be almost certain to be recognise as refugee if it be not for the backlog . will the Minister adopt that sensible solution , and also provide safe and legal route so that people be not push into the hand of people smuggler in the first place ? the hon . Lady mention an important proposal , and it be a reasonable thing to mention . we be talk about capacity in the system , and one way to resolve that , of course , would be to let significant number through the system without process their claim in the normal way . I can not support that . as she have hear I say on a number of occasion , the root of this be not just the strong day - to - day administrative running of the system ; the reality be that we have manage to really improve the performance of it and reduce cost . but that alone will not stop what be happen , due to the significant pull factor to this country . I believe that do as she suggest would merely turbocharge that , which I can not support . the Minister have give we the usual Government line on return under this Government , when the majority of they be obviously voluntary return . when it come to enforce return , the number be low than in nine of the 14 year of Conservative Government , and 15 % low than the Tory average . I want to raise the case of Hadush Kebatu . the Home Secretary say that she have " pull every lever " to deport he , but when it emerge that he be pay £ 500 after threaten to disrupt his departure , we be tell that be actually an operational decision . can the Minister confirm that Kebatu withdraw his asylum claim and forfeit appeal right , and admit that we will not be able to deport foreign criminal in sufficient number unless we cut off the endless route for human right claim and legal appeal ? I can say to the hon . gentleman that return be up by more than 10 % under this Government . I think the british public care about that . I make no apology for do that in the quick , cheap and most expeditious way , which be what we pursue in many case . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about Hadush Kebatu , a convict sex offender who have no place on our street and no place in our country ; it be right that he have be remove . he be forcibly deport and a team of five escort accompany he on that flight . we turn down an application regard the facilitated return scheme — which , under successive government , have offer grant of up to £ 1 , 500 — but , give the very real threat to disrupt the flight , an operational decision be take to provide a £ 500 payment . that be take because the alternative would have be slow and more expensive for the taxpayer , and it would have include detention , a new flight and , no doubt , subsequent legal claim . that decision be not take at the ministerial level , but I be not go to second - guess what be a difficult operational environment . this be a really difficult issue . the Minister speak about people want to come to the UK because they have a dream . I want to be clear : I welcome people who want to come to the UK and live in a way that be reflective of our value , but so often we ask the most of community who have the least . do the Minister agree that the continue use of public money for asylum hotel pose a risk not just to our politic , but in term of value for public money and social cohesion ? I would start by say that I share the hon . Lady ' s spirit on that , and I believe that the british public do too . whether it be regard syrian refugee , Homes for Ukraine , the afghan resettlement scheme , or british national overseas , the british public meet the moment when people need shelter , and show extraordinary capacity for compassion . but there have to be a limit on that , exactly as she say . I can assure she that we will break the pull factor , so that those who do not have a legitimate claim — more than half of those assess do not have a legitimate reason — will no long have a reason to come . in the meantime , in exactly the spirit of what she say regard public confidence , we have remove £ 1 billion of spending from this area for exactly that reason . the UK be spend a fifth of its official development assistance budget on hotel bill . some of that money be previously use to prevent conflict and to help refugee find refuge in their own region . I serve with an Army training regiment at Crowborough , one of the two site , and I consider that if it be good enough for we , it be good enough for some of the refugee who be seek asylum . but can the Minister assure the House that this move to use decommission barrack will cost taxpayer less than hotel currently do ? the reality be that the unit cost per night be broadly similar . the point be that we have to reduce the number of people in that accommodation . that be how we get value for the taxpayer and how we will not need the accommodation at all . I thank the Minister for his answer and his dedication to find the answer that we need . while it be good to hear that there be a plan to house asylum seeker more cost - effectively , the Government must ensure that those area do not become state within this state . what step have be take to ensure that law and order be uphold in any designate large area , such as those propose by the Minister ? I be grateful for that question , and I would start by acknowledge the hon . Gentleman ' s Herculean work throughout my time in Parliament , and before , regard Christians persecute abroad , so that people do not have to leave their home . that be important work , and that opinion be share across this place . I want to be clear : the rule of law have primacy ; it be absolute in this country , and it be the same for all of we . People who come here and want to make their home here , as the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) say , must embed themselves into community , reflect our value and behave in those way . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have just be debate the important matter of asylum seeker in MOD accommodation . could you confirm , as I hope Hansard will , that in the nearly 37 minute that we have spend debate this important matter , no Member of Reform have be in the Chamber or , indeed , make any contribution whatsoever ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . however , he will know that it be not a matter for the Chair . UK - T ü rkiye Typhoon Export Deal with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to update the House on the UK - T ü rkiye deal to sell 20 british - build Typhoon fighter jet . on Monday , the Prime Minister travel to Ankara with the Defence Secretary , where he finalise an agreement with President Erdo ğ an for t ü rkiye to purchase 20 British - build Typhoon fighter jet . that deal be worth £ 8 billion and be our big fighter jet export contract since 2007 . this be a massive boost for our defence industry , for our economy and for our country . it confirm that defence be an engine for growth . this deal will support 20 , 000 job across 330 UK company across the country . in particular , it will support job in Lancashire , Bristol , Luton and Scotland for many year to come . that include nearly 6 , 000 job directly support the Typhoon programme at BAE Systems site , particularly at Warton and Samlesbury ; more than 1 , 100 job in the south - west , such as at the Rolls - Royce facility in Bristol , produce module for the EJ200 jet engine that will power these new Typhoon jet ; and over 800 job in Scotland , include manufacturing cutting - edge radar system at Leonardo in Edinburgh . those be high - value , well - pay , good , unionised job — the kind of job that put money in work people ' s pocket , help revitalise community , and help deliver on defence as an engine for growth . this deal also preserve our sovereign skill , which underpin our national security and prosperity , so that they can be hand down to new generation . but it go far beyond the procurement of Typhoon jet alone ; it represent the lead edge of our enhance strategic partnership between the UK and T ü rkiye . this agreement between our two country be emblematic of a grow defence and industrial partnership , and will serve as a springboard for deep collaboration in future . T ü rkiye be a key NATO ally in a strategically critical part of the world and the gatekeeper to the Black sea . by equip it with top - of - the - range Typhoon fighter jet — the good fourth - generation all - round fighter in the world — this deal strengthen NATO ' s collective deterrence in a crucial region . it boost interoperability between our air force and make we all safe and more prosperous . this deal come just week after Norway choose the UK to supply it with at least five Type - 26 frigate in a £ 10 billion deal — the big ever warship export deal by value in our history . that contract alone secure 4 , 000 UK job , include more than 2 , 000 in Scotland , and support over 400 british company right across our supply chain . both deal , worth a combine £ 18 billion , be proof positive that other country want to invest in Britain . when ally choose our capability , it lead directly to great interoperability and investment back into our technology to achieve warfighting readiness . the deal be clear evidence that this Government ' s defence industrial strategy be deliver . here be what we be do differently . this government be go far and fast to back british industry , british job and british innovation . we be work more closely with ally around the world to strengthen our collective security . we be bring forward the big sustained increase in UK defence spending since the cold war to make Britain secure at home and strong abroad — £ 5 billion extra in the defence budget this year , achieve 2 . 5 % of gdp by April 2027 and 3 % in the next Parliament . and we be make defence an engine for economic growth for the next decade and well beyond , drive renewal and opportunity up and down the country . as we set out in our defence industrial strategy , our armed force be only as strong as the industry that stand behind they . we be fortunate in this country to have a world - class industry and a world - class supply chain , but we be make they even strong by open up defence to innovator , overhaul our procurement system , cut contracting time , and increase foreign direct investment in our defence sector by more than eight time over the past year . last week , before I visit BAE Systems in Warton and Samlesbury , I launch a consultation on an offset policy , which will ensure that every pound spend on defence will make our armed force strong and the british public well off . the proposal would mean that when the UK buy from international partner , the win contractor would be require to create job , know - how and investment opportunity here in the UK , strengthen the UK economy . to the worker , manager and apprentice I meet last week in Warton and Salmesbury , but also to those in Bristol , Edinburgh and across the UK , let I say this : this Government promise that we would have your back , and we be deliver on that promise with this deal . your hard work , dedication and commitment help deliver this deal , just as much as diplomacy and negotiation do . thank you . the UK and T ü rkiye may be position at opposite end of Europe , but our partnership be help to protect the continent at a time of rise threat , and the deal that we have announce this week only reinforce that partnership for the future . work on the new Typhoon jet begin immediately . the first British - build Typhoon for T ü rkiye will be deliver in just five year ' time , so the benefit will be feel immediately too : more job for work people , more investment in the supply chain , more confidence in the UK economy , defence as an engine for growth , security at home , and strength abroad . that be what this Government be deliver , and that be why I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Minister for provide advance sight of his statement . I strongly welcome this very important news for UK fighter production . combat air have historically be the large component of UK defence export , and few nation can hope to sustain such an advanced industrial base purely on domestic sale . I stress throughout my time as the Minister for Defence Procurement the critical importance of export , and this deal be very positive for the workforce in Warton — but also , as the Minister say , in Bristol , Edinburgh and elsewhere in the UK — for the wide small and medium - sized enterprise supply chain , for our NATO ally Turkey and for the Royal Air Force , which require a domestic base of highly skilled worker to maintain our ability to deliver sovereign competitiveness in the air domain . at the very well - attend global combat air programme event in Mr Speaker ' s state room , I say that defence export be like a baton pass between Administrations , because the big deal take year to pull off and require teamwork within and across Administrations . as with the norwegian frigate , there be a massive and concerted effort under the previous Government to engage constantly with Turkey in support of Typhoon export . in my time as a Minister , Typhoon export be a top priority in the MOD and I chair a weekly cross - Government committee that be focus in particular on persuade our german ally to change their long - stand position of oppose Typhoon sale to Saudi Arabia and Turkey . that work irrefutably help pave the way for this deal . I note that the Trinity House agreement with Germany , which I welcome , build on the proposal to restore large - calibre barrel production to the UK , which I initiate from scratch . do the Minister agree that Germany ' s change of position on Typhoon export underline the strength of our bilateral relationship with the Germans and the welcome stiffening of their military disposition more broadly , give the common threat we face ? of course , we should also recognise the important role of other long - stand defence export partner in this announcement . I note that it have be report that the deal involve Qatar and Oman give Turkey up to 24 exist Typhoons . can the Minister confirm whether either will be buy replacement Typhoons ? I note that Qatar have the option on 12 , which I understand be still outstanding . can the Minister update we on progress on Typhoon export to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia ? that bring I to the very relevant matter of GCAP , the programme that be develop the Typhoon ' s successor . I have previously speak of how GCAP be , like AUKUS , effectively two pillar : the Tempest platform be pillar 1 , and pillar 2 include critical element such as loyal wingman and electronic warfare , with significant potential benefit to the RAF ' s immediate lethality . while appreciate the complication in invite new nation to join pillar 1 , and have give strong hint about the german position in relation to its SCAF partnership with France , have the Minister consider invite Germany to be a pillar 2 partner of GCAP ? do the deal include any movement on complex weapon for integration into Typhoon , give our industrial strength in that area ? the MOD have now retire some 30 RAF tranche 1 Typhoons . do the Minister plan to order any further Typhoons for the RAF to replace those , and if so , when ? e - scan radar for the RAF ' s Typhoons , which be lead by Leonardo in Edinburgh , have be successfully develop , but no production order have be place . I have previously urge Ministers to accelerate procurement to boost the lethality of our exist Typhoon fleet . when will E - scan radar be in service for the RAF ? the Typhoon need an associated electronic upgrade know as P4E — phase 4 enhancement — to fully exploit the capability of E - scan radar , but I understand that no contract for that have be place yet either . when be P4E intend to be on contract ? finally , it would be wrong of I not to welcome the Minister to his newly name position as the Minister for Defence Readiness and Industry . personally , I think it be a shame that there be no long a Minister for Defence Procurement , but perhaps that should not be a surprise , give how little procurement be go on in the MOD . be it not the reality that , for all the boast about defence spending , Labour be prioritise penny - pinch in the MOD and force a deep freeze in procurement ? specifically , can he confirm or deny report in the Telegraph that he be demand that the armed force make in - year cut this year of £ 2 . 6 billion ? I be nearly go to say that I warmly welcome all the hon . Gentleman ' s remark , but I be afraid that the good news have to be temper with a little bit of partisan attack . first , let I welcome his welcome for this deal . it show that when there be good cross - party work , we can achieve thing well . I be very proud that it be this Government who have land this deal . we know that when we take office , a substantial amount of work be require to improve the MOD ' s export offer , and we have undertake that work . it have show benefit in the Norway deal , and now in the T ü rkiye deal , and we be work on a number of other contract with our ally that I hope will produce similarly good news for workforce up and down the country in due course . the hon . Gentleman ask about approval from our ally . I can confirm that all Eurofighter nation have indeed sign off this export , include Germany . it be right that he raise the Trinity House agreement that be sign between this Government and Germany , which provide a huge amount of opportunity . last week , to mark the one - year anniversary of the signing of that deal , Boris Pistorius and our very own Defence Secretary be in a p - 8 fly from RAF Lossiemouth , which underline our commitment to have german p - 8s fly from Lossiemouth and to have german aircrew participate with our RAF jet in a really important international mission that fly from Lossiemouth . GCAP be an essential part of our future combat air offer . that be reinforce in the strategic defence review that we publish early this year , and the Typhoon order for t ü rkiye help fill a gap in the production line between our current Typhoon order and the production of GCAP platform in the future . the hon . Gentleman will know that all our spending announcement will be make as part of the defence investment plan towards the end of this year . the radar he mention be an incredible piece of technology , which be of benefit not only to the RAF , but to other Typhoon nation . I gently point out to the hon . Gentleman that , since take office just over a year ago , we have sign 1 , 000 major deal in the MOD . we continue to procure not just traditional aspect , but cyber , drone and other capability for our armed force . we will continue to work with our ally because the change we need in our armed force be not just about renew the kit and equipment for our force , but about buy equipment alongside our ally , cut research and development cost , increase interoperability , move towards interchangeability and strengthen our warfighting resilience . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s support for this deal , and I hope he will join in thank all the worker for their tireless effort in support our national security and that of our NATO ally . this deal will support 20 , 000 job and make sure we have the skill we need for future combat air programme . defence support 37 , 000 job across the south - west . what step be the Government take to support skill across the whole defence sector and to support the space , satellite and drone sector that be so strong in Cornwall ? as a fellow south - west MP , I know how important defence be to our region , and how important it be that we not only continue the investment in our armed force , but renew those capability . space have a critical part to play in our future capability and , indeed , the ability of our armed force to deploy with effect today . on skill , my hon . friend will know that , as part of the £ 773 million package in the defence industrial strategy , we be look to open a number of defence technical excellence college across England , which will provide an increase boost in the skill base we need . our challenge to all defence company , large and small , be to grow the skill base so that we have great resilience and a great ability to direct more of that increase UK defence spend at british company deliver for our armed force . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . let I begin by warmly welcome the announcement of this deal . it will generate job for a skilled and dedicated workforce here in the UK and generate much - need growth , while contribute to the security and deterrence capability of the NATO alliance . the Government be right to see T ü rkiye as a key strategic partner in the Black sea and , as a NATO member , as an essential partner in our collective effort to contain Putin ' s imperial ambition by defend our eastern flank . yet even as we recognise our share security interest , we must be clear on Ankara ' s action when they depart from our value and standard . the continued detention of Istanbul ' s mayor , Ekrem İ mamo ğ lu , which be widely believe to be politically motivated , remain egregious and speak to an alarming trend of democratic backsliding in T ü rkiye . can the Minister confirm whether he or the Prime Minister raise concern about Mayor İ mamo ğ lu ' s continued detention while conclude this deal , and if not , will the Minister call on the Foreign Secretary to raise this with her turkish counterpart at the early opportunity ? this deal speak to the strategic imperative of deepen tie with our security partner across Europe and our alliance network . in May , the Government trumpet their new security framework with the European Union — a move that the Liberal Democrats welcome . however , five month on , it be not clear what progress , if any , the Government have make to flesh out the substance of the framework . can the Minister please provide an update on what step have be take since May to strengthen security tie with the EU ? in particular , will he commit the UK to membership of the European Defence Agency to support a join - up approach to collective rearmament with our european ally ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his warm welcome of this deal . the message that go out loud and clear to the workforce of not just BAE Systems , but the entire supply chain , be one of cross - party support for their work that this statement have announce . on the question of the Istanbul mayor , it be not for the Ministry of Defence to comment on individual legal case in other country . our defence engagement with T ü rkiye be focus on share security interest and NATO co - operation . however , I recognise what the hon . Gentleman have say , and I will ask the Foreign Office , which lead on that matter , to update he . I be very pleased to hear the Prime Minister , at this Dispatch Box during Prime Minister ' s question today , remark on the importance of the EU reset deal , our commitment as part of that deal to defence and security arrangement between the UK and the EU , and the progress we be seek to make in form close tie with the EU . the hon . Gentleman will know that those negotiation be ongoing with our EU friend , and we hope to have update shortly . however , let I say very clearly that our EU friend be also our NATO ally , and there be real common cause and a common opportunity to strengthen our collective defence by work together . I have the privilege of be at BAE Systems in Warton yesterday with the Prime Minister , and it be fair to say that the workforce be utterly buzz about this announcement . it be the first new order of aircraft since 2017 , as the Minister say , and the large order since 2007 . it be hard - win against the like of the US , the Swedes , the french and other ally , but guess what ? Lancashire win . it be for 20 aircraft sign now , with an option for a further 20 , worth £ 8 billion . generation of my constituent in South Ribble have work or still do work in Samlesbury and Warton , and this deal have secure thousand of job for at least a decade , or even more . can I please urge the Minister to still prioritise the Typhoon and to get we more order as quickly as he can ? I thank my hon . friend for the important work he have be do alongside other Lancashire MPs not only Labour Members , but on a cross - party basis — in support of the workforce at Samlesbury and Warton . he say that Lancashire win , but I should place on the record that a key part be play by the Yorkshire Defence Secretary , and I think that when they each play nicely with their neighbour , they can achieve great thing together . my hon . friend be exactly right that the Typhoon offer an incredible platform . as part of the Government ' s effort to promote british industry and our product around the world , we will continue to promote the opportunity that the Typhoon present to our ally , give the interoperability and close partnership that Typhoon nation have with the RAF in particular , but also , as we move towards GCAP and the opportunity that it provide , the importance of say that cut - edge british innovation , especially in the combat air sector , keep we and our ally safe . I welcome this announcement , and I congratulate the Minister and , indeed , the right hon . member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) and their conservative predecessor on the team effort in get we to this point . follow this announcement , what next step be the Government plan to take to build on it and far strengthen the UK ' s hugely important defence , diplomatic and economic relationship with our close NATO ally Turkey ? I thank the right hon . member for his welcome , and for his thank to my immediate predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) . the partnership we be seek to develop and which we be enhance with the signing of the Typhoon deal between the UK and T ü rkiye be not just about a jet and a platform , but about the ongoing support and training arrangement for that provision . as we come together across a number of workstream in support of NATO security , there will be more opportunity for military - to - military co - operation with our friend in T ü rkiye , but also for align our political objective in what be an incredibly important part of the world . T ü rkiye be the gateway to the Black sea and our friend in Ukraine , and it be also an important regional player in the middle east , particularly in Syria . there be huge opportunity to work together with our friend there that this deal will help to reinforce . many of my constituent in Pendle and Clitheroe work at the BAE site in Samlesbury , and they be delighted at this news , so I thank the Minister for his work and everyone who have work on the deal . this deal be good for our national security , high - skilled job and local economy such as mine in Lancashire . will the Minister outline what these contract mean for opportunity for apprenticeship for young people ? I thank my hon . friend for his welcome , and for the support he have provide to the workforce at Samlesbury , and indeed in the wide supply chain . I be at Warton and Samlesbury last week to see and hear from apprentice , especially at the BAE Systems skill centre , about the opportunity that an apprenticeship have open up for they . importantly , those opportunity be not just for those leave school and directly take up an apprenticeship . I be strike that one gentleman have leave the Parachute Regiment to pursue his skill with BAE Systems at Samlesbury , and be use the skill he learn in the armed force and put they to good use in support of our national security . we want to expand the number of apprenticeship opportunity in defence and to expand the skill base , because there be good opportunity in defence for more of our young people — and perhaps those people who be still young at heart — to make sure that we be enhance our national security . that be at the heart of the defence industrial strategy . ever since I be elect , it have be a critical part of my work to push to secure Typhoon order at the Warton site because of the impact those order would have not only on job across Fylde and Lancashire , but on our sovereign capability to build our own military aircraft . I massively welcome this announcement and the work that have be do by Ministers on the Front Bench and former Ministers on the Opposition Benches . I be touch that the Minister invite I to join he on his visit to BAE Systems last week , although the Prime Minister do not invite I to the announcement in my own constituency yesterday — perhaps he have be take my question at pmq too personally . the deal be welcome , but it mean that we be now the only major partner in the Eurofighter project that be not order the aircraft that we be try to sell to other country . we be try to sell aircraft abroad that we be not buy ourselves . I be sure it would be a great aid to future export deal — for get that extra 20 furth down the line and for look at saudi and other place where we be try to sell they — and equally , it would continue to boost our sovereign capability in military aircraft and maintain job across our country if we place that order for more Typhoons for the RAF . I would happily heap praise on the Minister if he do so . I be heap praise on the workforce in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and across Lancashire . it make it so much easy to sell our product when we have a world - class workforce produce world - class product . I be sorry that he be not able to join I on my visit , but I know that he be a regular visitor to those facility , so he will have hear about the importance of this order and why it have be such a priority for the Government to get it over the line . the hon . Gentleman will know that all our spending commitment will be make in the defence investment plan that will be publish towards the end of this year , something that I speak to the workforce and the trade union about when I meet they on my recent visit . there be enormous opportunity in the export market to help to support the supply chain in the meantime , and they be not just about the end product — although his constituency really value that . this be a good news day for the 330 company across our country for which there will be more order to sustain good , well - pay job . I welcome this deal , which be the big of its kind in a generation . as the world be become more unstable , this ambition should turn world - class defence deal into growth that we can feel in workshop , factory and community across the country . in Calder Valley — or valve valley , as it be know because of its specialist valve manufacturer — business tell I that they want to play a big role in that success , but small and medium - sized firm feel lock out of defence procurement and supply chain . worse , the big company that dominate the field sometimes poach skilled staff from company that can not access the process . can the Minister make sure that the procurement system be more open and competitive so that more community such as Calder Valley can benefit from that investment ? I thank my hon . friend , who I will have to refer to as the Member for valve valley from now on . he raise an important issue about the ability of small and medium - sized enterprise to access defence . over the last decade , the amount of direct MOD spend with sme have fall from 5 % to 4 % . we have set an ambition to spend an additional £ 2 . 5 billion directly with small business by 2028 . as part of that , we will be open our office for small business growth at the start of the new year — a one - stop shop for small business to access MOD contract and navigate the procurement system . at the same time , we be seek to cut the contracting time , which favour large company with big contract team over small enterprise , to give more small business a shot at some of the increase defence spending that the Government be make available . for over 20 year , the Eurofighter Typhoon have showcase the merit of European co - operation and the marvel of UK aerospace engineering . I commend the Government on this deal with our turkish ally , which will secure british job , maintain our expertise in this field and park a squadron of multi - role - capable strike aircraft just south of occupy Crimea . I register my disappointment that the Government ' s press release neglect to credit the contribution of many of my constituent who , work with GE Aerospace in Bishops Cleeve , have support the programme since its inception . will the Minister take this opportunity to recognise they now ? I thank the hon . gentleman for champion his workforce . one of the thing that make this House stand in contrast with some other place around the world be that we can , on a cross - party basis , support our defence industry and the people who be work hard to keep our nation safe , include those who work at GE Aerospace . I will be happy to work with he to thank not just his constituent , but all those in the supply chain who have make such a big difference to secure this deal . I also thank all those people work in sub - prime area — not in one of the large defence company — without whom we would not be able to produce the cutting - edge capability that our armed force and our ally rely on . million of part go into each of those platform and every single one be important . without they , we would not be able to fly those Typhoons , so the contribution of company big and small be so important . many UK manufacturer be part of international group and have the opportunity to transfer UK - generate profit to overseas entity via internal pricing mechanism and management fee . can the Minister confirm whether those profit - shift mechanism be assess and dissuade as part of UK defence procurement practice ? I suspect that I will need to meet my hon . friend to get to the bottom of that question , but I be very happy to do so . as a nation , we certainly welcome the investment of overseas firm in the UK . the UK be a good place to invest in defence and to start a defence company . we need to make sure that all our contract , big and small , return the value to the taxpayer . it be our intention that , where possible , intellectual property and profit should be hold in the UK to support our growth mission . I be happy to meet he to discuss that far . the news be welcome , but the future be unmanned , as the Minister know . with that in mind , what UK equity have the Government secure in the drone joint venture that be sign in June between Leonardo and the turkish company , Baykar ? I be happy to write to the right hon . Gentleman about the precise detail of that deal . I politely say to he that the future be crew , uncrewed and autonomous . that be what the strategic defence review set out , and that be why the platform that we be look at , such as GCAP , will start as a crew platform but have the ability to spiral develop into an uncrewed and autonomous platform . that be a key part of stay ahead of our adversary by make sure that we can increase the lethality of our crew platform by have uncrewed and autonomous platform alongside they . that be the spirit not just in the combat air domain , but on land and at sea as well . the Minister know that I take part in the armed force parliamentary scheme this year and last year , and I have the great privilege of visit the NATO airbase in Poland where I see Typhoons scramble to the sky to protect we from russian aircraft . he rightly point out that T ü rkiye be an important NATO ally , and I be proud that Labour play an important part in found NATO . do he agree that it be shameful and wrong to suggest that NATO ' s presence in eastern Europe be provocative to Putin , as the leader of Reform , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , have previously assert ? the armed force parliamentary scheme be a brilliant opportunity for parliamentarian with or without defence knowledge to learn more about our platform and , perhaps most importantly , about our people . the RAF crew that we forward - deploy to Poland to help to support our eastern flank ally do a superb job , as be the Typhoon crew leave RAF airbase in the UK to support our eastern flank ally as part of our commitment to Eastern Sentry . let I be clear : our national security would not be help by Putin - friendly policy or Putin - friendly politician . that be why we all make a strong case about our support for NATO and our pride in be a party and a Government with a NATO - first defence policy . I encourage all those toy with the idea of side with a Putin - friendly Government to look at what be happen in Ukraine , with the theft of ukrainian child by Russia , the unprovoked illegal attack on civilian infrastructure , and the threat that Putin and his illegal war machine make not just to our friend in Ukraine but to our NATO ally , and come to the firm conclusion that be Putin - friendly be certainly un - British . the Minister will be aware that T ü rkiye be remove from the F - 35 programme follow its acquisition of the S - 400 russian air defence system amid concern that it could compromise the F - 35 technology . can he say whether T ü rkiye have agree to return the S - 400 , and if not , be he confident that our technology will not be similarly at risk ? I be comfortable that we have adequate measure in place on that matter . however , the right hon . Gentleman be right that T ü rkiye do not participate in the F - 35 programme . as part of our work with T ü rkiye , there be a strong opportunity to ensure that the procurement opportunitie that T ü rkiye have face firmly west rather than east , and that be an important part of the strategic relationship that the UK be seek to build with our friend in Ankara . if we can find more opportunity to procure british and ally technology into T ü rkiye , with it then have less of a reliance not just on combat and sense system , but on oil , where it may look elsewhere , that will help to improve all of NATO ' s security , as well as support our friend in Ukraine . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , in particular the 8 , 000 job in the east of England result from the deal . do the Secretary of State agree that this far demonstrate this Government ' s commitment to be a key NATO ally , which will inevitably keep resident in my constituency safe ? I will briefly also pay tribute to my workforce — the Minister will be aware that Raytheon be base in Harlow , and we have a lot of expertise there . I thank my hon . friend not only for the promotion that he have offer I twice in his question , but for the support he have show for his workforce . in these time of increase threat , as we be live in a new era of threat , it be important and incumbent on all parliamentarian of all party to not only become more familiar with the brave man and woman serve in our armed force who come from our constituency , but champion the defence opportunity for industry and company big and small in our constituency . I know that my hon . friend do so in Harlow , as do other member across the House . please keep that come — that be how we increase our resilience and our warfighting readiness . I be pleased to hear the announcement of the order for 20 Typhoons from Turkey . have meet with representative from the workforce at Warton in Parliament early in the year , I recognise that maintain those crucial skill be balance on a knife edge . I want to ask today about the European Common Radar System Mark 2 , which be forecast to achieve an initial operating capability on our Tranche 3 Typhoon aircraft by the end of the decade . give the turkish Typhoon order will be Tranche 3 or 4 , we can assume it will be specify with the ECRS mk2 and the wide Phase 4 Enhancement programme . give that we be look at the same staff , what impact will the turkish order have on the timeline for the enhancement programme of our Typhoon fleet ? I be happy to write to the hon . gentleman with the full detail , but have another Typhoon partner nation use UK radar technology provide the opportunity for we to get great value out of the R & D cost that the UK have put into the development of those new technology , but also provide more opportunity for the workforce and the company , especially Leonardo in Edinburgh , to be able to deliver that as well . it be not just radar , of course ; as the shadow Minister suggest , it be also the software upgrade that be require to do so . I be very happy writing with the full detail , and will share the letter with the House for Members who may be interested . I warmly welcome this Typhoon export deal not only for entail the strengthening of the NATO alliance , but for the job it will bring to the south - west of England . plainly , these expensive Typhoon platform will not be subject to re - export and be bind for T ü rkiye . however , give that UK manufacture arm have be find in the hand of the Rapid Support Forces in Sudan in recent week , how satisfied be the Minister with the integrity of the UK ' s arm export regime to state in eastern Europe and the middle east ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s welcome of the good - value platform that we be export to T ü rkiye ; it be really important that we have a strong relationship with T ü rkiye . he will know that the arm export regime be run by the Department for Business and Trade . I have to say that the risk of diversion from some location be real , and that be why before any arm export licence be agree by DBT , there be input from not just the MOD but other source across Government to assess the risk of diversion or the equipment be lose or use in a way that do not accord with international humanitarian law . where we think there be such risk , we do not grant those export licence . I encourage the hon . gentleman to take up the matter he have raise far with DBT colleague . I welcome today ' s statement , of course . it be interesting that the Minister come to the House with good news , but have to be drag here when there be less good news . nevertheless , this be welcome news and a real boost for defence job in this country . the Minister mention that some of our eurofighter ally have sign this off and be happy with the deal . would he like to comment on whether the White House be happy with it ? of course , anything that wean Turkey away from the russian defence industrial complex and supply chain be to be welcome , as my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) outline . when the Prime Minister meet the turkish President on Monday in Ankara , do he also discuss Turkey be wean off russian oil and gas and be use as a conduit for russian oil and gas go into some part of the European Union — up at 36 % at the moment , I think — which , of course , be fund the russian war effort in Ukraine ? there be a number of nation across Europe and Asia with complex energy dependency on Russia . this Government and our partner nation have be very clear that there need to be a fast and smooth transition away from use russian oil and gas , and it be something we continue to work on with our ally . we encourage all those that be use russian oil and gas for their own economy , and , in do so , effectively support the coffer of the russian regime , to move at pace to get away from that . I can confirm that all partner nation and ally that be require to sign off this deal have do so . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on two separate occasion in July and September , the former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the right hon . member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , make some very dubious claim from the Dispatch Box about water quality in Scotland , which be repeat in write to a Cabinet Secretary in the Scottish Government , on social medium and in broadcast interview . I write to the Office for National Statistics to seek clarification . it have confirm that the statement lack verifiable transparency and that the broad evidence do not support they , say that : " without appropriate discussion of the limitation of some of the more specific figure quote " , they run the risk of " mislead the public " . I believe this to be a clear breach of public trust by a Minister and a Government who have stake their reputation on restore trust in politic . I therefore ask you , Madam Deputy Speaker , whether it be in order for the former DEFRA Secretary repeatedly to make clearly mislead statement in this place that be not support by the fact , as demonstrate by the ONS , and whether you will call the right hon . member to this House to apologise . I thank the hon . member for his point of order . the Chair be not responsible for what minister say or the way in which they use datum , but the hon . member ' s point of order be on the record . those on the Government Front Bench will have hear his concern , and , if a correction be necessary , I be sure one will be forthcoming . I gently remind the hon . member that I be sure he mean to say " inadvertently " misleading . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Cabinet Office guide to parliamentary work be very clear that " every question should be approach with a predisposition to give relevant information fully . there should be no inconsistency between the provision of information in answer to write question and information give " under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 . if " information would be release under FOI , it would also be release in response to " a write parliamentary question . this position be confirm by the then Leader of the House in October last year when she state that if information would be release under freedom of information legislation , it would also be release in response to a write parliamentary question . this guidance appear to have be breach in relation to question about representation on the Government ' s plan to hike up parking fine . on 10 July , in answer to parliamentary question 64511 , the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , refuse to publish the material . on 19 August , the Department release the same information under the Freedom of Information Act , explicitly reference the unanswered parliamentary question . when ask again to publish the release material , on 16 October , in answer to parliamentary question 77651 , the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , once again refuse to do so . we now have a situation where Parliament be be treat with contempt and information be be provide to member of the public under FOI but withhold from member of this House . this be a direct breach of the Government ' s own guidance and of the principle of accountability to this House . Madam Deputy Speaker , will you consider communicate to the Leader of the House and to the Departments that such inconsistency be wholly unacceptable and that information that would be release under FOI must also be release to Parliament ? should the two Ministers not now correct this affront and place the information in the Library of the House ? before I respond to the right hon . member ' s point of order , I say for the benefit of all member that point of order should be concise . there be an increase tendency to use they to make point that should be properly make in debate . I remind all member that point of order should be limit to matter relate to the business before the House or the rule and convention of the House . on the point raise by the right hon . member , he will know that it be Ministers , rather than the Chair , who be responsible for the response that they give to parliamentary question . however , he raise a serious point that those on the Government Front Bench will have hear . member of this House play an important role in scrutinise the Government , and write parliamentary question have an important role to play . I know that the Procedure Committee take an interest in these matter , so the right hon . member may also wish to raise the issue with that Committee . European Convention on Human Rights ( Withdrawal ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights , and to make further provision in connection with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from that Convention . in many way , this be unfinished business . on 23 June 2016 , in the big democratic exercise in the history of these island , the british people — [ interruption . ] despite what they be tell by all the business and all the trade union and much of the press and most of this House , the british people manage , despite everything — [ interruption . ] child , be quiet . Oooh ! order . I will be responsible for maintain order in this Chamber . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure you will allow I the opportunity to continue to try to say something despite such constant intervention . the british people vote clearly , by a massive margin , to bring back the sovereignty — [ interruption . ] by the way , what make I laugh about this be that it be not just about the sovereignty of this country ; it be about the sovereignty of this very Chamber and the people within it . it be about bring power back to this very place , and that be what we vote for . one of the big reason why the vote happen be the deep alarm at the huge number of people come into our country and the fact that we effectively have open border , make we poor in every way . of course , our membership of the Council of Europe and the european convention and its writing into british law in 1998 kind of enshrined that , and I think it be what Tony Blair want we to do . I believe that Brexit can not be complete all the while we be subject to a foreign Court and a piece of legislation bring in by the Blair Government on which judge can choose their own political interpretation . we be not sovereign all the while we be part of the european convention on human right , the Council of Europe and its associate court . it be as simple as that . Putin ' s patsy ! it be marvellous to see the intellectual level of debate in this place — it really be . be it any wonder — [ interruption . ] be it any wonder that out in the country there be grow frustration — [ interruption . ] order . can I remind member that the hon . Gentleman have a ten - minute rule Bill in front of this House and should be listen to without interruption ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be talk about fear and anger grow in the country — and I sense there be also a bit of that grow in this Chamber . when it come to control our border and to who should be able legally to live , work and settle in this country , and , indeed , to who should not be allow to stay in our country , I do not believe it be right that that should be under the remit of judge in Strasbourg — who by the way be jurist , most of they not even legally qualified — and under the political control of judge in this country , who now can make their own interpretation of what we have understand for many , many year to be british common law . this Bill intend to restore the power of this Parliament — the power of all of you as mps to actually be in control of the thing that matter most to all voter , whether they support you or not . this Bill intend to bring back british common law and some idea — rather than state - give right , those of birthright of liberty and freedom . these be thing that over century serve our country far well than any other nation in the european continent . this be about liberty , it be about freedom , it be about democratic control . just think , whatever the election result , even if 650 of we want to change rule on who can come across the channel and stay , we could be overrule by a convention that we sign up to in 1998 — [ interruption . ] member shake their head , but we could literally be overrule . this be about sovereignty — sovereignty of the country , sovereignty of our Parliament . it be about our voter be able to choose the future course and direction of our own country . that be why this matter . let we remind ourselves briefly of some of the bad example of the ECHR take away our democratic right . interestingly , it be the last Conservative Government who decide to put in place the Rwanda legislation . it be , in theory , very good , as it would act as a deterrent — [ interruption . ] unless people support the criminal gang , yes it be a very good idea . the trouble be that it could not happen . why could it not happen ? in the case of the 2022 Rwanda deportation flight , at 10 pm a single judge in Strasbourg , without any legal qualification , decide on the basis of article 3 that the flight could not take off . we have since see horrendous story , particularly under article 8 on the right to family life . well , whose family ? the family of british people , or the family of those who have come into Britain , in some case illegally , and be wave through ? some of it be disgusting beyond belief . a pakistani child sex offender dodge deportation on the basis that his removal would harm the child he have have in this country . the list go on and on — brazilian murderer , rapist and many other who claim the right to a family life under article 8 . well , what about british family ? what about their right and their freedom ? what be the priority of member of this place ? of course , we will be tell that by leave this completely outdated , 75 - year - old convention — [ interruption . ] by the way , I fully understand why it be sign up to in the 1940 — the other european country do not have constitution or democracy that could prevent they from go into extremism — but we be not Russia and we be not Belarus . nobody in the Chamber would say that country like New Zealand , Australia and Canada be barbaric or backward ; they defend freedom . but I do not defend state - give human right , because they can be take away by the very state who have give they in the first place . [ interruption . ] I have never see so many Liberal Democrats in all my life — it be absolutely marvellous . [ interruption . ] order ! I ask the Liberal Democrats and other in this place : what be wrong with you ? do you not believe that this country be good enough to make its own law ? do you not believe in the country that since Magna Carta have develop the principle of common law — which , with its fault , have be perhaps the good ever develop by civilisation ? do you not believe we be good enough to make these rule ? should we stick with outdated convention prey on by human right lawyer in this country ? this Bill would restore democratic trust and faith in this once great nation . the speech we just hear totally misrepresent the european convention , and the failure of the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) to mention the huge benefit and right that the european convention have bring to million of british people say it all . let I give those attract by the argument we have just hear one strong reason to think again . Russia under Vladimir Putin be the only country to have withdraw from the european convention on human right . maybe that be what attract the hon . member — after all , he say that Putin be the world leader he most admire . russia : a country where those who oppose the regime be mysteriously push off balcony , and where , if it be not enough to murder a political opponent like Alexei Navalny , Putin have even jail lawyer who dare to represent he — thing not allow under the european convention . as we have see Nathan Gill , a lead political ally of the hon . member for Clacton , imprison for take russian bribe , perhaps we should not be surprised that the Reform party be so keen to follow Russia . besides Russia , where else be people ' s hard - fight - for right under attack ? trump ' s America . of course , the US be not part of the european convention , yet its citizen have benefit from something similar : the US constitution , which be design to check the power of tyrant and protect the individual from the state . just as the hon . member for Clacton desire to remove people ' s right here , his hero Donald Trump be do the same in America , attack the court and the rule of law , and even incite a violent mob against the US Congress to overturn an election . but of course , the hon . Member have call President Trump " an inspiration " . if we want to know the hon . member ' s intention for british people ' s basic right and freedom , we only need to look at Putin ' s Russia or Trump ' s America . that be not patriotic . it be deeply un - British , and he should be ashamed . unlike the hon . member for Clacton , I be proud of our country ; I love our country . I be proud that Britain help to create the european convention on human right , champion by Winston Churchill himself . the convention protect the very people who need it most : our elderly and most vulnerable , so that they may live and grow old with dignity ; and our child , so that those face horrific abuse have well protection . it also uphold our freedom of speech so that the press and public can criticise those in power without fear , and it protect our right to peaceful protest . seventy year ago , Britain become the first country to ratify the convention , as a lead voice on the global stage for human right and the rule of law . that be our history . that be who we be . that be Britain at our good . yet the hon . member for Clacton want we to forget our history , dump british value , undermine the rule of law and row back on people ' s hard - win right . I say no . to help get across how wrong the hon . member , the Reform party and the Conservatives be on this , let I give some example . when people die because of poor care at Stafford hospital , their family secure change — because of these law . when british troop die in Iraq because of poor equipment , the Supreme Court rule that the Government be accountable — because of these law . after 96 people be kill in the Hillsborough disaster and the victim themselves be blame , their family finally get to the truth — because of these law . when the Metropolitan police fail to properly investigate the horrific assault of John Worboys , his victim be able to take the police to court — because of these law . time and again , the european convention and its british twin , the Human Rights Act , have bring justice for our people , and protect they from gross misconduct and unfair treatment . these law help individual hold the powerful to account — to hold government to account . these law can get justice when the elite and powerful cover up and abuse their power . so it be clear , be it not , that the hon . member for Clacton be not about stand up for the individual — for the ordinary person , for the people with no voice — but that he be the friend of the elite and the powerful ? if we do not defend our human right here at home , how can we possibly persuade other country of the importance of human right for their own people ? if we do what Reform want , the big cheer will come from the Kremlin , from Beijing , from Tehran , from Pyongyang , and from dictator and authoritarian regime the world over . that would be a betrayal of everything our country stand for . the hon . member ' s plan would damage our country ' s ability to shape our world . leave the convention would be another nail in the coffin of Britain ' s unique soft power . we have so often influence world event for the well by be part of international agreement , by uphold international law and by lead . of course , the hon . member for Clacton have make his career by damage our country and our influence . remember how he lead the campaign for Brexit with his conservative friend ? we know what a total mess that have turn out to be . he and his friend argue that Brexit would cut immigration , but immigration have go up . just look at how badly he have betray the people he claim to speak for . Brexit make the small boat crisis possible . before Brexit , we effectively have a return agreement with every EU country : the Dublin system — a deterrent that work . now , undocumented migrant be try to reach the UK because they know they can not be return . thank to the hon . member , his Brexit rip up Britain ' s right to return people with no right to be here and people who should have claim asylum elsewhere in Europe . [ interruption . ] conservative Members may shout — they cause it ! let we look at one of our close ally , the Republic of Ireland , and a vital part of our country , Northern Ireland . the Good Friday agreement reference the european convention seven time . the guarantee of basic right and freedom in the convention be fundamental to secure the Good Friday agreement , to end the conflict , to stop the bomb and to get peace , yet the hon . member for Clacton stand here today prepare to risk peace in our country — how utterly shameful . as we approach Remembrance Sunday , let we never forget the sacrifice make for our freedom today , and let we never forget the lesson that that great generation of british people learn and pass on to we — interruption . ] I think the veteran will notice this barracking . our great generation show we that we need these law to protect people from state abuse , to stop authoritarian government and tyrant , and to defend people ' s right . the post - war generation know how costly far right - wing populism have be for our country and our people , so for our great generation , for british people today and for our democracy , I urge member to vote against this Bill . question put ( Standing Order no . 23 ) . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood John Whittingdale Danny Kruger Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur James Asser Josh Babarinde Paula Barker Lee Barron Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Polly Billington Olivia Blake Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Ian Byrne Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Cat Eccles Clive Efford Bill Esterson Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Z ö e Franklin Gill Furniss Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Amanda Hack Claire Hanna Monica Harding Helen Hayes Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Alison Hume rupa Huq Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Gerald Jones Afzal Khan Uma Kumaran Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard John Martin McDonnell Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Al Pinkerton Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Bell Ribeiro - Addy Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter Lisa Smart Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Tony Vaughan Caroline Voaden Catherine West Matt Western Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Wendy Chamberlain Claire Young the House divide : Ayes 96 , Noes 154 . question accordingly negative . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit , notwithstanding the practice of the House on when a motion relate to a matter of privilege be take , the motion in the name of Sir Alan Campbell relate to Privileges may be take after the conclusion of proceeding on the Sentencing Bill ; the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on that motion not later than one hour after their commencement ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; the business may be proceed with , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Sir Alan Campbell . ) sentencing Bill consideration of Bill , as amend in the Committee New Clause 1 - parent of young offender " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must undertake an assessment of the effectiveness and use by the court of the follow power in the Sentencing Code — ( a ) section 365 to 375 ( parenting order ) ; and ( b ) section 380 to 383 ( cost , fine and other financial order where offender age under 18 ) . ( 2 ) the assessment undertake under subsection ( 1 ) must make recommendation on — ( a ) way to increase use of the Sentencing Code power to make parenting and financial order ; and ( b ) other potential sentencing change to promote great parental responsibility in respect of young offender . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , lie a copy of the assessment make under this section before Parliament . " — ( Mr Bedford . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State to assess the use of the court ' exist power to make parenting order and financial order to parent of young offender . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — re - sentence those serve a sentence of imprisonment for public protection — " ( 1 ) the Lord Chancellor must make arrangement for , and relate to , the re - sentencing of all prisoner serve IPP sentence within 18 month begin on the day on which this Act be pass . ( 2 ) those arrangement must include arrangement relate to the establishment of a committee to provide advice regard the discharge of the Lord Chancellor ' s duty under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the committee establish by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) must include a judge nominate by the Lord Chief Justice . ( 4 ) a court that impose an IPP sentence have the power to re - sentence the prisoner in relation to the original offence . ( 5 ) but the court may not impose a sentence that be a heavy penalty than the sentence that be impose for the original offence . ( 6 ) in relation to the exercise of the power in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) that power be to be treat as a power to re - sentence under the Sentencing Code ( see section 402 ( 1 ) of the Sentencing Act 2020 ) ; ( b ) the Code apply for the purpose of this section ( and , accordingly , it do not matter that a person serve an IPP sentence be convict of an offence before 1 December 2020 ) . ( 7 ) in this section — ' IPP sentence ' mean a sentence of imprisonment or detention in a young offender institution for public protection under section 225 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 or a sentence of detention for public protection under section 226 of that Act ( include such a sentence of imprisonment or detention pass as a result of section 219 or 221 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ) ; ' original offence ' mean the offence in relation to which the IPP sentence be impose . ( 8 ) this section come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " this new clause would implement the recommendation of the Justice Committee ' s 2022 report that there should be a resentencing exercise in relation to all IPP sentence individual , and to establish a time - limit expert committee , include a member of the judiciary , to advise on the practical implementation of such an exercise . new clause 3 — Use of fund raise through income reduction order — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must undertake an assessment of the potential benefit and cost of direct the fund raise from income reduction order into a fund that provide support for victim . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , lie a copy of the assessment under subsection ( 1 ) before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to undertake an assessment of the potential benefit of use the monie raise through income reduction order to fund support for victim . new clause 4 — probation caseload — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , before lay regulation to commence the provision in this Act , establish maximum caseload limit for probation officer supervise individual subject to — ( a ) licence condition ; ( b ) community order ; or ( c ) any other form of court - impose supervision by the probation service . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , each year , lie before Parliament a report on compliance with the caseload limit set under this section . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to set maximum caseload for probation before implementation of the Act , and to report annually on compliance . new clause 5 — access to rehabilitation and support service — " ( 1 ) the probation service must ensure all individual subject to licence condition , community order , or other court - impose supervision have access to — ( a ) NHS mental health and substance misuse service , ( b ) education , training and employment support , and ( c ) approve behaviour change or offender behaviour programme . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament , each year , a report on the availability and use of the service provide under subsection ( 1 ) . " this new clause would require the probation service to ensure people under its supervision can access mental health and substance misuse service ; education , training and support ; and approve behaviour change or offender management programme , and to report annually on the availability and uptake of those service . new clause 6 — Digital system for track offender progress — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within one year of the passing of this Act , undertake an assessment of the benefit and cost of implement a digital sentence management system for prisoner and individual who be subject to supervision by the probation service . ( 2 ) the assessment must consider the follow potential function of a sentence management system — ( a ) tracking offender progress , ( b ) provide for the sharing of information between the court , probation service , and other relevant agency , subject to the UK General Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act 2018 , ( c ) monitor compliance with rehabilitation programme , and ( d ) any other function that the Secretary of State deem appropriate . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to undertake an assessment of implement a digital sentence management system for prisoner and individual subject to supervision by the probation service . new clause 7 — specialist team for high - risk or complex offender — " ( 1 ) the probation service must undertake an assessment of the potential benefit of establish specialist probation team to supervise — ( a ) high - risk offender , ( b ) offender with complex mental health need , ( c ) offender with substance misuse need , and ( d ) young offender who be transition to adult supervision . ( 2 ) the assessment must consider the potential benefit of specialist probation team have low average caseload per probation officer . ( 3 ) the assessment must consider the potential arrangement for specialist probation team access support from other relevant agency . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , lie a copy of the assessment under this section before Parliament . " this new clause would require the probation service to assess the potential benefit of establish specialist probation team to supervise offender who be high - risk ; have complex mental health or substance misuse need ; and young offender transition to adult supervision . new clause 8 — domestic abuse aggravate offence — " ( 1 ) a court must treat an offence commit in England and Wales as domestic abuse aggravate , if — ( a ) the offender and the victim be personally connect to each other ; and ( b ) the offence involve behaviour which constitute domestic abuse . ( 2 ) in this section — ' domestic abuse ' have the meaning give by section 1 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , and ' personally connect ' have the meaning give by section 2 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . " this new clause would require a court to treat a domestic abuse offence as aggravate . new clause 9 — rehabilitative programme for offence relate to violence against woman and girl — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must undertake an assessment of the potential benefit of create mandatory rehabilitative programme about woman and girl , for individual sentence for — ( a ) assault ; ( b ) battery ; or ( c ) actual bodily harm when the victim be a woman or girl . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , lie a copy of the assessment under this section before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to carry out an assessment of the potential benefit of create mandatory rehabilitative programme about woman and girl , for individual sentence for certain offence . new clause 10 — screen for traumatic brain injury — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must undertake an assessment of the potential cost and benefit of screen all prisoner for traumatic brain injury at the start of their custodial sentence . ( 2 ) the assessment should consider — ( a ) how screen for traumatic brain injury could inform the management of a prisoner ' s sentence , ( b ) the health service and rehabilitation programme available for prisoner with traumatic brain injury , and ( c ) any other matter that the Secretary of State deem appropriate . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , lie a copy of the assessment make under this section before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to carry out an assessment of the potential benefit of introduce standardised screening for traumatic brain injury for prisoner start a custodial sentence . new clause 11 — suspension of drive licence during bail for drive related offence — " ( 1 ) this section apply where an individual have be grant bail in respect of one of the following offence — ( a ) dangerous or careless driving ; ( b ) drink driving ; or ( c ) drug driving . ( 2 ) the court may suspend the drive licence of the individual , pende the outcome of any criminal proceeding . " this new clause would allow the court to suspend the drive licence of an individual charge for certain driving offence , pende the outcome of the trial . new clause 12 — access to rehabilitation programme and education for individual hold on remand — " ( 1 ) where an individual be hold in custodial remand pende sentencing , the probation service must provide access to the same rehabilitative programme that be available to prisoner after sentencing . ( 2 ) where an individual be hold in custodial demand pende trial , the probation service must provide access to the same — ( a ) education ; ( b ) therapy ; and ( c ) any other support that the probation service deem appropriate , that be available to prisoner after sentencing . " this new clause would allow prisoner hold on remand to access rehabilitative programme , education , therapy and other support before the start of their sentence . new clause 14 — under - 18 anonymity for case involve serious crime — " ( 1 ) this section apply where a person ( ' p ' ) age under 18 — ( a ) have be convict of an offence ; and ( b ) will receive a custodial sentence of four or more year . ( 2 ) where this section apply , prior to deliver sentencing remark , the court must lift any reporting restriction identify p . ( 3 ) this section apply notwithstanding the provision of chapter IV of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 . " this new clause would require report restriction to be lift at the point of sentencing for young offender who have receive a sentence of four or more year . new clause 15 — court transcript of sentencing remark — " ( 1 ) all transcript of sentencing remark make in the Crown Court must be publish within two sit day of be deliver . ( 2 ) all publish sentencing remark must be make freely available , include online . " this new clause would require all sentencing remark make in the Crown Court to be publish and make available to all . new clause 16 — sexual offence : Offender Personality Disorder Pathway — " ( 1 ) the Prison Rules 1999 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 20 ( Health service ) , after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — ' ( 1A ) provision under subsection ( 1 ) must include access , for all eligible prisoner serve custodial sentence for sexual offence , to service provide under the Offender Personality Disorder Pathway . ' " this new clause would require the Government to provide access to the Offender Personality Disorder Pathway to all eligible prisoner serve sentence for sexual offence . new clause 17 — sexual offence : chemical suppression — " within one year of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish and lie before Parliament a report on how most effectively to introduce mandatory chemical suppression for certain individual serve sentence for sexual offence , with appropriate legal and clinical safeguard . " this new clause would require the Government to publish a report on mandatory chemical suppression for certain sex offender . new clause 18 — Sentencing Council : abolition — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Council ( establish under section 118 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 ) be abolish . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may prepare — ( a ) sentencing guideline which may be general in nature or limit to a particular offence , particular category of offence or particular category of offender ; ( b ) sentence guideline about the discharge of a court ' s duty under section 73 of the Sentencing Code ( reduction in sentence for guilty plea ) ; and ( c ) sentence guideline about the application of any rule of law as to the totality of sentence . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may prepare sentence guideline about any other matter . ( 4 ) when develop sentencing guideline , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) promote understanding of , and public confidence in , the sentencing and criminal justice system ; ( b ) consult Parliament on all draft guideline ; and ( c ) publish the reason for propose any guideline that could result in an offender receive a short sentence than that set out in an Act of Parliament . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may report , from time to time , on the impact of sentence guideline on sentencing practice . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must monitor — ( a ) the application of the sentencing guideline ; and ( b ) the impact on victim of sentencing decision . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision under this section . " this new clause would abolish the Sentencing Council , give the Secretary of State the power to publish Sentencing guideline , and impose various requirement link to consultation and monitoring . new clause 19 — whole life order : murder of a police or prison officer — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Code be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 2 of Schedule 21 ( determination of minimum term in relation to mandatory life sentence for murder etc ) , in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( c ) , after ' duty , ' , insert ' or if the motivation for the murder be connect to the police officer or prison officer ' s current or former duty , ' " this new clause would expand the circumstance in which it be appropriate to apply a whole life order for murder a prison or police officer , to include murder motivate by the victim ' s current or former duty . new clause 20 — child cruelty offence : notification and offender management requirement — " ( 1 ) a person ( ' relevant offender ' ) be subject to the notification requirement of subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) for the period set out in subsection ( 4 ) if the relevant offender be convict of an offence list in subsection ( 6 ) . ( 2 ) a relevant offender must notify to the police within the three day of the time of their conviction or their release from custody , and annually thereafter , provide — ( a ) the relevant offender ' s date of birth ; ( b ) their national insurance number ; ( c ) their name on the notification date and , where use one or more other name on that date , each of those name ; ( d ) their place of residence on the date of notification ; ( e ) the address of any other premise in the United Kingdom at which , at the time the notification be give , they regularly reside or stay ; and ( f ) any information that may be prescribe in regulation by the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) a relevant offender must notify to the police , within the period of three day begin with the event occur , about — ( a ) their use of a name which have not be notify to the police under subsection ( 2 ) ; ( b ) a change to their place or residence ; and ( c ) any other prescribe change of circumstance as define in regulation make under this section . ( 4 ) the date of discharge from notification requirement under this section be the same as those set out in section 88b of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 . ( 5 ) the information require by subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , once receive , must be — ( a ) monitor regularly by the police and probation service ; and ( b ) retain for the purpose of offender management . ( 6 ) the relevant offence be — ( a ) cause or allow the death of a child or vulnerable adult , or allow they to suffer serious harm ( section 5 of the Domestic Violence , Crime and Victims Act 2004 ) ; ( b ) child cruelty , neglect and violence ( section 1 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 ) ; ( c ) infanticide ( section 1 of the Infanticide Act 1938 ) ; ( d ) expose child whereby life be endanger ( section 27 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 ) ; ( e ) an offence under section 4 , 18 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 or 47 of the Offences against the Person Act 1860 , if the victim be under the age of 16 ; ( f ) an offence under any of the follow provision of the Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003 — ( i ) female genital mutilation ( section 1 ) ; ( ii ) assist a girl to mutilate her own genitalia ( section 2 ) ; ( iii ) assist a non - UK person to mutilate overseas a girl ' s genitalia ( section 3 ) ; and ( g ) cruelty to child ( section 1 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 ) . " this new clause would create notification requirement for people convict of child cruelty , analogous to the Sex Offenders Register . their information and personal detail would be keep on record by the police for the purpose of offender management , with the aim of reduce the risk to child from future offence . new clause 21 — Lifetime driving ban for death by dangerous driving — " ( 1 ) this section apply where a person be convict of an offence under section 1 the Road Traffic Act 1988 . ( 2 ) where this section apply , notwithstanding the provision of chapter 1 of Part 8 of the Sentencing Code ( drive disqualification ) , the driver must be ban from drive for life . " this new clause would mean that anyone who cause death by dangerous driving would be ban from drive for life . new clause 22 — Review of sentence follow a change in law — " ( 1 ) where a person be serve or subject to a sentence impose for an offence , and — ( a ) the offence have be abolish , or ( b ) there have be a change in the law which materially alter the sentence that would be impose for the same offence follow that change in the law , that person may apply to the sentencing court , or to such other court as may be prescribe , for a review of the sentence . ( 2 ) on such an application , the court may — ( a ) quash the sentence and resentence the person in accordance with the exist law ; or ( b ) make such other order as necessary in the interest of justice . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision for the procedure and eligibility criterion for application under this section . " this new clause would allow a person still serve a sentence under a law that have change to seek review or resentence in line with the exist law . new clause 23 — Review of the impact of a change in the law on unspent conviction — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report review — ( a ) the effect of change in the criminal law , whether legislative or judicial , on those serve sentence for offence that would attract a different sentence follow the subsequent change to the criminal law ; and ( b ) the adequacy of exist mechanism for address any perceive injustice arise from such change . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must thereafter lay a further report under subsection ( 1 ) every three year . ( 3 ) a report make under this section must include — ( a ) recommendation for legislative or administrative step to prevent any instance of injustice arise from change in the law ; and ( b ) datum on the number of person serve sentence in the scenario set out in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) and , of those , the number who remain imprisoned . " this new clause would create a statutory duty for the Government to review , on a recur basis , how change to the law affect those already convict or sentence . new clause 24 — deportation of foreign criminal : European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 — " ( 1 ) section 32 of the UK Borders Act 2007 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) at the start of subsection ( 5 ) , insert ' notwithstanding the provision of section 7a of the European Union Withdrawal Act 2018 and Article 2 of the Windsor Framework , ' . " this new clause would seek to disapply section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 ( as amend under the Windsor Framework ) to the deportation of foreign criminal , with the aim of prevent the court from disapplye those provision to Northern Ireland if they be deem incompatible with the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights . new clause 25 — electronic monitoring : oversight — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Code be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Part 14 of Schedule 9 , in paragraph 31 ( electronic monitoring : person responsible for monitoring ) , after sub - paragraph ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 3 ) regulation under this section must ensure that — ( a ) electronic monitoring be oversee by the Probation Service ; ( b ) the fitting of necessary apparatus for the purpose of electronic monitoring may only be undertake by those in the employment of an organisation with responsibility for deliver electronic monitoring ; and ( c ) the fitting of necessary apparatus may not be undertake by an employee of HM Prison and Probation Service unless the responsibility for the delivery of electronic monitoring be hold solely by HM Prison and Probation Service . ' " this new clause would ensure that the probation service oversee electronic monitoring , and that prison officer would not be responsible for fitting tag unless tagging contract be bring into the public sector . new clause 26 — Unpaid work requirement : community work — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Code be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 3 of Part 1 of schedule 9 ( restriction on impose unpaid work requirement ) , after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) insert — ' ( c ) that the unpaid work be work undertake for a non - profit organisation , social enterprise , voluntary organisation or local authority . ' " this new clause would prohibit private sector involvement in unpaid work as part of a community sentence . new clause 27 — probation capacity : independent report — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , a report must be publish and lay before Parliament by HM Inspectorate of Probation ( ' the Inspectorate ' ) determine whether there be adequate capacity in the Probation Service to meet provision of this Act anticipate to increase level of demand on the Probation Service . ( 2 ) if the report under subsection ( 1 ) determine that the capacity of the Probation Service be inadequate , provision of this Act anticipate to increase level of demand on the Probation Service may not come into force until a further report determine that the Probation Service have adequate capacity . ( 3 ) follow a report under subsection ( 1 ) , the Inspectorate must publish and lie before Parliament a further report , no less than once every twelve month , determine whether there be adequate capacity in the Probation Service . ( 4 ) if a report under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 3 ) determine that the capacity of the Probation Service be inadequate , the Inspectorate may direct that a prioritisation framework must be issue to the area in which the capacity concern apply , in order to provide local service with guidance about which activity to deprioritise . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must , within two week of the laying of a report under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 3 ) with a finding of inadequate capacity , make a statement to Parliament set out how probation capacity will be increase to an adequate level . " this new clause would ensure that the provision of this Bill likely to increase demand on the Probation Service can not be implement until HM Inspectorate of Probation determine that there be adequate capacity to address those demand , and would enable the Inspectorate to trigger the issuing of a prioritisation framework to help local area to identify which activity to deprioritise . new clause 28 — management of offender : devolution to Wales — " ( 1 ) schedule 7a of the Government of Wales Act 2006 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Paragraph 175 ( prison and offender management ) — ( a ) omit sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ; and ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , omit ' probation ' ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision under this section . " this new clause seek to devolve probation service and offender management to Wales , by remove it from the list of reserved matter in the Government of Wales Act 2006 . new clause 29 — foreign criminal : risk assessment prior to deportation — " ( 1 ) the UK Borders Act 2007 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 32 ( automatic deportation ) insert — ' 32a deportation follow stalk offence : risk assessment ( 1 ) this section apply where a foreign criminal — ( a ) have be convict of an offence under section 2A or 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 or section 42a of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 ; and ( b ) be subject to a deportation order under this Act . ( 2 ) where this section apply , prior to deportation , a risk assessment must be prepare to assess the likelihood after deportation of the foreign criminal — ( a ) commit an offence which , be it to be commit in England or Wales , would constitute a further offence under section 2A or 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 or section 42a of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 ; or ( b ) contact or seek to contact the victim of the offence for which the foreign criminal be convict in England or Wales . ( 3 ) a risk assessment prepare under this section must be share , subject to the requirement of the Data Protection Act 2018 , with the relevant authority in the country to which the foreign criminal will be deport . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision under this section . ' " this new clause would require the preparation of a risk assessment for any foreign criminal be deport after a stalk conviction , and for the assessment to be share with the authority in the country to which the offender be return . new clause 30 — foreign criminal : potential stalk offence follow deportation — " ( 1 ) the UK Borders Act 2007 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 32 ( automatic deportation ) insert — ' 32a potential stalk offence follow deportation ( 1 ) this section apply where the condition in subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) apply . ( 2 ) condition 1 be that a foreign criminal — ( a ) have be convict of an offence under section 2A or 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 or section 42a of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 ; and ( b ) be subject to a deportation order under this Act . ( 3 ) condition 2 be that they have — ( a ) commit an offence which , be it to be commit in England or Wales , would constitute a further offence under section 2A or 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 or section 42a of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 ; or ( b ) they have contact or seek to contact the victim of the offence for which the foreign criminal be convict in England or Wales . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance to the relevant authority , set out — ( a ) a police point of contact in the country to which the offender be return ; ( b ) step to protect and safeguard the victim in the UK ; and ( c ) any other matter that the Secretary of State deem appropriate . ' " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to issue guidance in deal with foreign criminal who have be deport after a stalk conviction , and who seek to continue to stalk the victim . new clause 31 — exclusion from automatic release follow fix - term recall for specified serious offence — " ( 1 ) an offender shall not be eligible for automatic release follow a fix - term recall where they have be convict of any of the follow offence — ( a ) rape ; ( b ) assault by penetration ; ( c ) rape of a child under 13 ; ( d ) assault of a child under 13 by penetration ; ( e ) incite a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity ; ( f ) pay for the sexual service of a child age under 13 ; ( g ) kidnapping or false imprisonment with the intention of commit a sexual offence ; ( h ) create or possess indecent photograph or pseudo - photograph of child ; ( i ) grievous bodily harm ( under section 18 or section 20 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 ) ; ( j ) grooming ( under section 15 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ) ; ( k ) stalk ( under section 2A or 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 ) ; ( l ) cause or allow the death of a vulnerable child or adult ( under section 5 of the Domestic Violence , Crime and Victims Act 2004 ) ; or ( m ) cause death by dangerous driving ( under section 1 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 ) . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , a person shall also be ineligible for release follow a fix - term recall if they have be convict of an attempt , conspiracy , or incitement to commit any of the offence list in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation add or remove offence from the list in subsection ( 1 ) . " this new clause would mean offender who have commit certain serious offence would not be eligible for automatic release follow a fix term recall . new clause 32 — power of the probation service to impose and vary condition of supervision — " ( 1 ) where an offender be — ( a ) subject to a community order , a suspend sentence order , or a period of probation supervision ; and ( b ) require to reside at a specified address as a condition of that order or supervision , the Probation Service may , in accordance with this section , direct that the offender reside at an alternative address . ( 2 ) a direction under subsection ( 1 ) may be give where — ( a ) it be necessary to protect another person ( include a partner , former partner , or family member ) from risk of harm ; ( b ) it be necessary for the effective management or rehabilitation of the offender ; or ( c ) it be otherwise in the interest of justice . ( 3 ) where the probation service have make a direction under subsection ( 1 ) , it may recommend or determine other term of supervision , include — ( a ) restriction on contact or association with specify individual ; ( b ) requirement relate to participation in programme address offend behaviour ; or ( c ) curfew or exclusion requirement , subject to approval by the sentencing court . ( 4 ) where a direction or variation make under this section materially alter the condition impose by the sentencing court , the probation service must — ( a ) notify the court and the offender as soon as possible ; and ( b ) seek confirmation by the sentencing court of the varied term within 14 day . ( 5 ) any direction or variation make under this section shall have effect as if impose by the sentencing court , until it have be confirm , revoke , or amend by the court . ( 6 ) in this section , " the probation service " include any person or body authorise to supervise offender under the Offender Management Act 2007 . " this new clause would give the probation service the power to change the residence requirement of an individual subject to supervision in certain circumstance , and to make other change to the term of supervision , subject to confirmation by the sentencing court . new clause 33 — mandatory dependent support order upon sentencing — " ( 1 ) where an offender be know to have dependent who rely on they for financial or other material support , the court shall , at the time of sentencing , inquire into the circumstance and reasonable need of those dependent . ( 2 ) in addition to any sentence impose , the court must make an order require the offender to make periodic payment or other contribution towards the maintenance and welfare of their dependent ( ' dependent support order ' ) , unless the court determine that such an order would be manifestly unjust or impracticable . ( 3 ) the amount , frequency , and method of payment make under subsection ( 2 ) shall be determine by the court have regard to — ( a ) the offender ' s financial mean , earn capacity , and asset ; ( b ) the reasonable living cost and need of the dependent ; and ( c ) any other relevant circumstance . ( 4 ) the court may direct that payment be make — ( a ) through a designate collection authority ; or ( b ) directly to the dependent ' s guardian , caregiver , or other appoint representative . ( 5 ) an order make under this section shall remain in effect — ( a ) for such time as specify by the court ; or ( b ) until it be varied or discharge by the court on application by any interested party . ( 6 ) a failure to comply with an order make under this section shall constitute a breach of the sentence . " this new clause would create a power for a sentencing court to require an offender to make periodic payment or other contribution towards the maintenance and welfare of their dependent . new clause 34 — 10 - year driving ban for death by dangerous or careless driving and related offence — " ( 1 ) this section apply where a person be convict of an offence under section 1 , 2B , 3zb , 3zc or 3A of the Road Traffic Act 1988 . ( 2 ) where this section apply , notwithstanding the provision of chapter 1 of Part 8 of the Sentencing Code ( drive disqualification ) , the driver must be ban from drive for 10 year . " this new clause would mean that anyone who cause death by dangerous or careless driving ( or relate offence ) would be ban from drive for ten year . new clause 35 — cause death or serious injury by dangerous , careless or inconsiderate driving : statutory aggravating factor — " ( 1 ) the Road Traffic Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 3A , insert — ' 3b cause death or serious injury by dangerous , careless of inconsiderate driving : aggravate factor for sentencing in consider the seriousness of any offence commit under section 1 , 1A , 2b , 2C , 3zb , 3zc , 3zs or 3A for the purpose of sentencing , the court must treat failure to — ( a ) stop at the scene of the accident ; ( b ) call the emergency service ; or ( c ) administer first aid , where it be possible to do so ; as an aggravating factor , and state in open court that the offence be so aggravated . ' " this new clause would create statutory aggravating factor , for the purpose of sentencing , of failure to stop , call the emergency service , or administer first aid where it be possible to do so , in case of cause death or serious injury by dangerous , careless of inconsiderate driving . new clause 36 — earn progression for prisoner release — " ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice Act 2003 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 244 , after subsection ( 4 ) , insert — ' ( 5 ) the duty to release under subsection ( 1 ) be subject to the prisoner demonstrate compliance with the earn progression scheme during the course of their custodial sentence . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must issue regulation , under section 267 ( alteration by order of the relevant proportion of sentence ) set a high requisite custodial period for prisoner who have not demonstrate compliance with the earn progression scheme during their sentence . ( 7 ) in this section , ' the earn progression scheme ' must include — ( a ) compliance with prison rule ; ( b ) engagement in purposeful activity ; ( c ) attendance at any require work , education , treatment or training obligation , where these be available ; and ( d ) any other factor that the Secretary of State deem appropriate . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide further guidance to prison on the operation of the earn progression scheme . ' " this new clause seek to implement the recommendation of the independent review on sentencing for the release of prisoner at the one third point of their sentence to be subject to their compliance with an earn progression scheme . new clause 38 — Sentencing Council — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Council of England and Wales be abolish . " new clause 39 — deportation of foreign criminal — " ( 1 ) a foreign criminal who have be sentence to — ( a ) a custodial sentence of at least 6 month ; or ( b ) a community sentence of at least 6 month , must be the subject of an immediate deportation order , subject to subsection ( 2 ) below . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may determine , in exceptional case , that a deportation order under subsection ( 1 ) do not apply . ( 3 ) in this section , ' foreign criminal ' mean a person who — ( a ) be not a british citizen or an irish citizen , and ( b ) be convict in the United Kingdom of an offence . " this new clause would apply an automatic deportation order to foreign criminal sentence to at least six month ' imprisonment or a six month community sentence . new clause 40 — criminal case review — " ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 36 ( review of sentencing ) , insert — ' Part IVB - CRIMINAL case REVIEW ( PUBLIC PETITION ) 36a scope of this Part ( 1 ) a case to which this Part apply may be refer to the Court of Appeal under section 2 below . ( 2 ) subject to Rules of Court , the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal under section 36b shall be exercise by the criminal division of the Court , and reference to the Court of Appeal in this part shall be construe as reference to that division . ( 3 ) this Part apply to any case — ( a ) of a description specify in an order under this section ; or ( b ) in which sentence be pass on a person — ( i ) for an offence triable only on indictment ; or ( ii ) for an offence of a description specify in an order under this section . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by order provide that this section shall apply to any case of a description specify in the order or to any case in which sentence be pass on a person for an offence triable either way of a description specify in the order . ( 5 ) a statutory instrument contain an order under this section shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament . ( 6 ) in this part , ' sentence ' have the same meaning as in the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 , except that it do not include an interim hospital order under Part III of the Mental Health Act 1983 , and ' sentencing ' shall be construe accordingly . ( 7 ) in its application to Northern Ireland , this section shall have effect subject to the modification set out in subsection ( 8 ) to ( 11 ) . ( 8 ) subsection ( 2 ) shall not apply to Northern Ireland . ( 9 ) in this section — ' offence triable only on indictment ' mean an offence punishable only on conviction on indictment ; ' offence triable either way ' mean an offence punishable on conviction on indictment or on summary conviction ; and any reference in subsection ( 4 ) to the Secretary of State must be construe as a reference to the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland . ( 10 ) for subsection ( 5 ) , in Northern Ireland an order under subsection ( 4 ) shall be a statutory rule for the purpose of the Statutory Rules ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1979 ( and not a statutory instrument ) , and any such order shall be subject to negative resolution ( within the meaning of section 41 ( 6 ) of the Interpretation Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1954 ) . ( 11 ) reference in subsection ( 6 ) to the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 and Part III of the Mental Health Act 1983 shall be respectively construe as reference to Part I of the Criminal Appeal ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1980 and Part III of the Mental Health ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1986 . 36b criminal case review ( public petition ) ( 1 ) if it appear to any adult british citizen age 18 or over — ( a ) that the sentencing of a person in a proceeding in the Crown Court ( ' the person sentence ' ) have be unduly lenient or unduly harsh ; and ( b ) that the case be one to which section 36a apply , that british citizen ( ' the petitioner ' ) may refer the case to the Criminal Cases Review Commission ( ' the Commission ' ) for it to review the sentencing of the person sentence , in accordance with section 36c below , and if the Commission refer the case to the Court of Appeal , upon such a reference the Court of Appeal may — ( a ) quash any sentence pass on the person sentence ; and ( b ) in place of it pass such sentence as they think appropriate for the case and as the low court have power to pass when deal with the person sentence , provide that the petitioner have file the reference with the Commission in writing , sign by at least 500 signature ( ' the co - petitioner ' ) include his own . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation stipulate the information and form that the petitioner must provide when file the reference . ( 3 ) without prejudice to the generality of subsection ( 1 ) above , the condition specify in paragraph ( a ) of that subsection may be satisfied whether or not it appear that the judge — ( a ) err in law as to his power of sentencing ; or ( b ) fail to comply with a mandatory sentence requirement under section 399 ( b ) or ( c ) of the Sentencing Code . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this Part , any two or more sentence be to be treat as pass in the same proceeding if they would be so treat for the purpose of section 11 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 . ( 5 ) where a reference under this section relate to a minimum term order make under section 321 of the Sentencing Code , the Court of Appeal shall not , in decide what order under that section be appropriate for the case , make any allowance for the fact that the person to whom it relate be be sentence for a second time . ( 6 ) no judge shall sit as a member of the Court of Appeal on the hearing of , or shall determine any application in proceeding incidental or preliminary to , a reference under this section of a sentence pass by himself . ( 7 ) where the Court of Appeal have conclude its review of a case refer to it under this section , and give its judgment thereon , the Court of Appeal , the petitioner or the person sentence may refer a point of law involve in any sentence pass on the person sentence to the Supreme Court for its opinion , and the Supreme Court shall consider the point and give its opinion on it accordingly , and either remit the case to the Court of Appeal to be deal with or itself deal with the case . ( 8 ) a reference under subsection ( 6 ) shall be make only with the leave of the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court and leave shall not be grant unless it be certify by the Court of Appeal that the point of law be of general public importance and it appear to the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court ( as the case may be ) that the point be one which ought to be consider by the Supreme Court . ( 9 ) for the purpose of deal with a case under this section , the Supreme Court may exercise any power of the Court of Appeal . ( 10 ) in the application of this section to Northern Ireland — ( a ) subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) shall read as if for the word after ' fail to ' there be substitute ' impose a sentence require by — ( i ) article 70 ( 2 ) of the Firearms ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2004 , ( ii ) paragraph 2 ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) of Schedule 2 to the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 , ( iii ) article 13 or 14 of the Criminal Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 , or ( iv ) section 7 ( 2 ) of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation ( Criminal Justice and Support for Victims ) Act ( Northern Ireland ) 2015 ' . ( b ) the reference to section 11 and 35 ( 1 ) of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 shall be read as reference to section 10 ( 2 ) and 33 ( 1 ) of the Criminal Appeal ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1980 , respectively ; and ( c ) the reference in subsection ( 3A ) to a minimum term order make under section 321 of the Sentencing Code shall be read as a reference to an order under article 5 ( 1 ) of the Life Sentences ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2001 . 36C the Commission ( 1 ) the Commission under section 36b be the same body as that establish under section 8 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1995 and the provision of section 8 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1995 shall apply to the role of the Commission under this Part . ( 2 ) section 9 , 10 , and 12a to 25 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1995 shall apply to this Part . ( 3 ) the Commission must review all case refer to it within 8 week of receive any such referral and must , within that time , make its decision . ( 4 ) if the Commission decide that the case should be refer to the Court of Appeal by reason of an unduly harsh sentence then , immediately upon receipt of the referral , the Court of Appeal must make an order that the person sentence be release on temporary licence ( ' ROTL ' ) until further order of the court , and the Court of Appeal must also determine suitable bail condition , if any and the person sentence must remain rotl until the Court of Appeal have determine the referral . ' " this new clause would allow any british citizen to refer a sentence to the Criminal Cases Review Commission , for the Commission to review the sentence and consider whether to refer it to the Court of Appeal . new clause 41 — sentencing statistic : duty to publish — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , direct his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunal Service ( HMCTS ) to record and retain , in relation to all offender convict and sentence in the Crown Court or Magistrates ' court , the offender ' s — ( a ) country of birth ( b ) nationality , ( c ) ethnicity , ( d ) immigration status , and ( e ) the offence ( s ) for which they be sentence . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must make arrangement for the datum record under subsection ( 1 ) to be publish and lay before Parliament — ( a ) within twelve month of the passing of this Act , and ( b ) annually thereafter . " this new clause would require the Government to record and publish statistic on convict offender ' birthplace , nationality , ethnicity and immigration status . new clause 42 — Crown Court sit day for the delivery of sentencing — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , undertake an assessment of the potential merit of remove the cap on sitting day in the Crown Court in so far as it apply to sentencing hearing . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must lay a copy of the assessment make under subsection ( 1 ) before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to undertake an assessment of the potential merit of remove the cap on sitting day in the Crown Court in so far as it apply to sentencing hearing . new clause 43 — Expiry — " this Act expire at the end of the period of two year begin with the day on which it be pass . " this new clause be a sunset clause , mean the Act would cease to have effect after two year . amendment 5 , page 1 , line 4 , leave out clause 1 . amendment 32 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 14 , after " month " insert " before any credit be give for a guilty plea " . this amendment would mean that the presumption for a suspend sentence would apply to sentence before credit be give for a guilty plea . amendment 35 , page 1 , line 17 , after " order " insert " with the maximum operational period " . this amendment would mean that all suspend sentence give in place of immediate custody would be suspend for the maximum period . amendment 33 , page 3 , line 9 , after " individual " insert " or the public " . this amendment would mean that the presumption for a suspend sentence would not apply where the court be of the opinion that not impose an immediate custodial sentence would put the public ( as well as an individual ) at significant risk of harm . Amendment 34 , page 3 , line 9 , leave out " significant " . this amendment would mean that the presumption for a suspend sentence would not apply where the risk of harm apply , remove the requirement for the harm to be significant . amendment 14 , page 3 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) where a court have pass a suspend sentence under this section , it must also require the offender to be subject to an electronic monitoring requirement for the duration of the sentence . " this amendment would require offender ( under the age of 21 ) give suspend sentence to be subject to electronic monitoring . amendment 15 , page 3 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be not a british citizen or an irish citizen . " Amendment 16 , page 3 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender — ( a ) have be convict of three or more other offence in the 12 month lead to the conviction for which a suspend sentence would otherwise have be pass ( the ' current offence ' ) ; ( b ) have be convict of 10 or more offence prior to the current offence ; ( c ) have be convict of the same offence as the current offence on three or more previous occasion ; ( d ) be convict of an offence ( the current offence ) with a mandatory minimum custodial sentence ; ( e ) have previously receive a suspend sentence order or a custodial sentence for the same offence as the current offence ; ( f ) have breach a suspend sentence order or order on three or more occasion , either by breach community requirement or commit a further offence ; ( g ) have a history of poor compliance with court order , accord to a written or oral statement from a probation officer ; ( h ) at the time of the current offence , be — ( i ) subject to a supervision order ; or ( ii ) on licence , or subject to supervision , under chapter 6 of Part 12 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( release , licence , supervision and recall ) . ( i ) be convict of an offence eligible for consideration under the Unduly Lenient Sentence Scheme under section 35 and 36 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ; or ( j ) be be sentence for three or more offence concurrently . " this amendment would prevent suspend sentence from be pass in a range of circumstance . amendment 17 , page 3 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of an offence — ( a ) under section 1 of the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 or section 89 ( 1 ) of the Police Act 1996 ; or ( b ) aggravate by section 68a of the Sentencing Act 2020 ( assault on those provide a public service etc ) . " Amendment 18 , page 3 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of an offence involve a firearm or ammunition , include but not limit to the Firearms Act 1968 and the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 . " Amendment 19 , page 3 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of a burglary offence . " amendment 20 , page 3 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of an offence involve possession of or threaten with an article with a blade or point or an offensive weapon , " Amendment 21 , page 3 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of a terrorism offence . " amendment 22 , page 3 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of an offence under section 6 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of the Bail Act 1976 ( failure to surrender to custody ) . " Amendment 36 , page 4 , line 4 , after " month " insert " before any credit be give for a guilty plea " . this amendment would mean that the presumption for a suspend sentence would apply to sentence before credit be give for a guilty plea . amendment 39 , page 4 , line 7 , after " order " insert " with the maximum operational period " . this amendment would mean that all suspend sentence give in place of immediate custody would be suspend for the maximum period . amendment 37 , page 5 , line 20 , after " individual " insert " or the public " . this amendment would mean that the presumption for a suspend sentence would not apply where the court be of the opinion that not impose an immediate custodial sentence would put the public ( as well as an individual ) at significant risk of harm . amendment 38 , page 5 , line 20 , leave out " significant " . this amendment would mean that the presumption for a suspend sentence would not apply where the risk of harm apply , remove the requirement for the harm to be significant . amendment 23 , page 5 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) where a court have pass a suspend sentence under this section , it must also require the offender to be subject to an electronic monitoring requirement for the duration of the sentence . " this amendment would require offender ( age 21 or over ) give suspend sentence to be subject to electronic monitoring . amendment 24 , page 5 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be not a british citizen or an irish citizen . " Amendment 25 , page 5 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender — ( a ) have be convict of three or more other offence in the 12 month lead to the conviction for which a suspend sentence would otherwise have be pass ( the ' current offence ' ) ; ( b ) have be convict of 10 or more offence prior to the current offence ; ( c ) have be convict of the same offence as the current offence on three or more previous occasion ; ( d ) be convict of an offence ( the current offence ) with a mandatory minimum custodial sentence ; ( e ) have previously receive a suspend sentence order or a custodial sentence for the same offence as the current offence ; ( f ) have breach a suspend sentence order or order on three or more occasion , either by breach community requirement or commit a further offence ; ( g ) have a history of poor compliance with court order , accord to a written or oral statement from a probation officer ; ( h ) at the time of the current offence , be — ( i ) subject to a supervision order ; or ( ii ) on licence , or subject to supervision , under chapter 6 of Part 12 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( release , licence , supervision and recall ) . ( i ) be convict of an offence eligible for consideration under the Unduly Lenient Sentence Scheme under section 35 and 36 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ; or ( j ) be be sentence for three or more offence concurrently . " this amendment would prevent suspend sentence from be pass in a range of circumstance . amendment 26 , page 5 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of an offence — ( c ) under section 1 of the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 or section 89 ( 1 ) of the Police Act 1996 ; or ( d ) aggravate by section 68a of the Sentencing Act 2020 ( assault on those provide a public service etc ) . " Amendment 27 , page 5 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of an offence involve a firearm or ammunition , include but not limit to the Firearms Act 1968 and the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 . " Amendment 28 , page 5 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of a burglary offence . " amendment 29 , page 5 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of an offence involve possession of or threaten with an article with a blade or point or an offensive weapon , " . amendment 30 , page 5 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of a terrorism offence . " Amendment 31 , page 5 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but this section do not apply if the offender be convict of an offence under section 6 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of the Bail Act 1976 ( failure to surrender to custody ) . " Amendment 6 , page 6 , line 28 , leave out clause 2 . amendment 1 , in clause 4 , page 14 , line 10 , after " ( include victim of crime " insert " , ensure their protection from further physical or psychological harm " . this amendment would amend the statutory purpose of sentencing to incorporate safeguard victim from further physical or psychological harm . amendment 9 , page 36 , line 9 , leave out clause 18 and 19 . amendment 7 , page 37 , line 9 , leave out clause 20 . amendment 11 , page 47 , leave out line 16 to 19 . this amendment would leave out the Bill ' s provision to give probation officer more discretion in relation to licence condition Amendment 2 , in clause 24 , page 49 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) the Secretary of State must , before lay regulation commencing subsection ( 4 ) of this section , undertake an assessment of the potential effect of a drive prohibition condition on a person ' s ability to attend — ( a ) employment , ( b ) education , or ( c ) a rehabilitation programme . ( 11 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report of the assessment carry out under subsection ( 10 ) include recommendation on — ( a ) offender rehabilitation , ( b ) offender reintegration , and ( c ) any other matter that the Secretary deem appropriate . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State , before commence the drive prohibition provision in the Bill , to publish a report on their potential effect on the ability of ex - offender to attend employment , education and rehabilitation provider . amendment 3 , page 49 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) the Secretary of State must , before lay regulation commencing subsection ( 7 ) of this section , undertake and publish an assessment of the potential effect of a restriction zone condition on a person ' s ability to attend — ( a ) employment , ( b ) education , or ( c ) a rehabilitation programme . ( 11 ) the court may provide for exemption in a restriction zone condition to allow a person to attend employment , education or a rehabilitation programme . ( 12 ) a probation officer may vary a restriction zone condition impose by the court to allow a person to attend employment , education or a rehabilitation programme . ( 13 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament , each year , a report on — ( a ) the number of people subject to a restriction zone condition , ( b ) the number of case where a restriction zone condition have include an exemption or modification to allow a person to attend employment , education or a rehabilitation programme , and ( c ) evidence on the effect of restriction zone condition on reoffende and rehabilitation . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State , before implement the relevant provision , to assess the potential effect of a restriction zone condition on an ex - offender ' s ability to attend education , employment or a rehabilitation programme . it would allow for exemption to restriction zone condition , and require an annual report on their use and effectiveness . amendment 12 , page 66 , line 34 , leave out clause 36 . amendment 13 , page 68 , line 8 , leave out clause 37 . amendment 4 , page 68 , line 24 , leave out clause 38 . in September 2024 , my constituent and , indeed , the country be leave shock by the senseless killing of Braunstone Town resident Bhim Kohli . Mr Kohli , a well - respect and decent man , be just walk through Franklin park as he usually do , accompany by his dog Rocky , when he be target and assault to death by a 14 - year - old boy , egg on by a 12 - year - old girl . since this horrific event , I have be work with Mr Kohli ' s daughter Susan , and I pay tribute to the Kohli family for the dignified manner in which they have deal with the emotional and tragic aftermath of such a horrific incident . Susan be not look for retribution ; she be simply look to promote justice for the family of victim , who at the moment do not feel that the justice system work for they . I pay tribute to Susan , who I know be sit at home , alongside Rocky , watch today ' s debate . I have table new clause 1 and 14 in memory of Mr Kohli , and I would like hon . member across the House to support they . they would place great responsibility on child offender and the parent of child offender . new clause 1 would require the Secretary of State to undertake an assessment of the effectiveness and use of parental order throughout the justice system . for hon . member who do not know , parental order be measure that either require parent of child offender to pay for their child ' s crime , or force they to attend parenting class . yet , despite those power be on the statute book , they be rarely use . in fact , the Ministry of Justice confirm that their use have decrease from over 1 , 000 in 2010 to just 27 in recent year . that be woefully inadequate . these measure be design not to punish , but to support ; to help family restore discipline and stability ; and to prevent the next crime before it happen . Susan put it to I that if the parent of the two individual in this case be place under parental order , they would perhaps appreciate the damage and impact that their negligent behaviour have cause . the fact that one of the parent recently ask for their child ' s tag to be remove so that they could go on a family holiday be shameful . new clause 14 would bring an end to anonymity protection for young offender who commit the most heinous and serious crime . I believe in deterrence , and I believe that when an individual commit an act so vile and abhorrent , the full weight of justice must be feel , include be name publicly . the boy — 15 year old by the time of the trial — should not be shield . our judicial system should not protect those who have show such disregard for human life ; they should be name , just as Axel Rudakubana be follow a court order , and as Mohammed Umar Khan be last week . new clause 14 be simple : if an individual under the age of 18 commit a serious crime , they will be name — no ifs , no but . in my eye , if someone be old enough to commit such an appalling crime , they be old enough to face the full consequence of their action . my hon . friend be make an excellent and passionate speech . do he agree that the Government should consider support new clause 14 and remove anonymity for young people who commit such serious crime , because they be look to reduce the voting age to 16 ? we should talk about when people in this country become adult . they should not be protect if they commit such serious crime . I could not agree more . my hon . friend mention the rumour that the Government be plan to lower the voting age , and it would seem contradictory to have two age of responsibility . I will turn now to new clause 18 , table my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) . it be shocking that the girl who be with the 14 - year - old boy , and who egg he on to commit the assault — quite literally to kill a man — do not receive a custodial sentence . sentencing guideline make it nearly impossible for individual of that age to receive a custodial sentence . but what can we in this House do about that ? the answer be " very little " because we have an unelected and unaccountable quango determine sentencing guideline , rather than democratically elect member in this place . that be wrong and must change . we must abolish the Sentencing Council and restore democratic accountability to our judicial system to promote equality before the law and ensure that serious crime be treat with the tough punishment that they deserve , irrespective of a defendant ' s sob story . crime be crime . that be why I also support new clause 17 and 19 , which would ensure tough sentence for those who commit sexual abuse or murder . I also support new clause 21 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , which would deliver a powerful message : someone who take a life through dangerous or reckless driving should forfeit the privilege of driving . it would prioritise public safety and provide justice for family who have lose love one , like my constituent Emma Johnson who lose her parent to the action of a careless driver . I sincerely hope that the Government support the amendment . we in this place must ensure that justice be do and see to be do . do the Chair of the Justice Committee wish to make a speech ? indicate dissent . then I call John McDonnell . I have only a couple of sentence , Madam Deputy Speaker . to remind the Minister , in last week ' s Committee , my new clause — which be effectively new clause 26 today — represent the view of a number of organisation , include the National Association of Probation Officers , recall the problem that we face with privatisation , particularly in relation to community service and unpaid work . in London in 2013 , the supervision of unpaid work be privatised to Serco , and it be a catastrophic failure in provide both effective work and security for the community overall . it leave a stain on the old process of manage community work . that be reflect when the previous Government totally privatised probation , which then have to be bring back in - house . new clause 26 simply ask for an assurance from the Government that , although we will want to engage with voluntary organisation , charity and non - profit body , we will not seek the privatisation of community service and unpaid work , in particular the placement of former prisoner in work in which they could be exploit . I be very grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , who I be sure will join I in support my new clause 27 and 28 , and new clause 25 in the name of the hon . member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) . my new clause relate to probation capacity and the devolution of probation service to Wales , but in Committee we have no feedback whatsoever from the Minister at the close of the day . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that those four new clause , include his own , warrant a response from the Minister ? that be why I table my new clause in Committee . I do not want to be a pain in the neck ; I just want the Minister to acknowledge our understanding of the implication of the measure and the Probation Service ' s overall concern about these matter . I have re - table the new clause simply to get the Minister ' s view and to hear the Government ' s attitude on those issue . a range of amendment have come from the justice union parliamentary group , which the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) chair . let I be absolutely clear : community service have always be state - supervise work with charity and non - profit organisation . at no stage do we want to allow private sector organisation to profiteer in that area of service . no matter what attitude the Minister take , I hope that he can give we an assurance on that . if there be a need for further discussion and dialogue , I be sure that the justice union parliamentary group will be willing to meet he to go through those issue in more detail . my right hon . friend make a good point . although commercial organisation may well be able to run community scheme , it be clear that the ambition of voluntary organisation be rehabilitation and the prevention of reoffende , and that really must be the goal of community sentencing , which be at the heart of the Bill . I can only draw on the experience that my hon . friend and I have when Serco be in charge , which be about profiteer and reduce cost , largely through a reduction in staff . he might recall that on occasion we have report that community service volunteer be turn up , and the tool be not available for they to do their work . there be a lack of supervision , and in a few instance we discover that some of the vehicle that they use have be force into and be unsafe . we do not want to go back to that profiteering . that be why an assurance that this provision will be manage and orientate by the state , use non - profit - make voluntary organisation and charity , would reassure those professional who have unfortunately experience the privatisation that have take place in the past , to the detriment of we all . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to speak in support of new clause 19 , and other new clause table in my name and those of Opposition Members . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) for open the debate . he have draw attention to an important issue , and something I often ponder . I be aware that many power be available to tackle the involvement of parent in offend , but I never get the sense that they be work as well as we would want they to . my hon . friend ' s new clause would help we to get to the bottom of that . it be a privilege to take part in this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition , and to have a further opportunity to do what I can to make clear to Labour member the enormous negative impact on victim that the Bill will have . the Bill will fundamentally change how we deliver justice for victim of serious violent and sexual crime in this country . the official opposition table amendment and new clause in Committee , but we do not get to undertake line - by - line scrutiny in a proper Bill Committee . I suspect that that be because the Government know that the reality of the Bill be so damning that they fear an outright rebellion of their mp if they can not continue the pretence about what it do and do not do . nevertheless , we attempt to provide a limited and more acceptable reform of the early release measure to exclude sexual and serious violence offender . Labour mp reject that , and we be now leave only with a new clause to remove those measure entirely . why do we persist ? because the consequence if we do not are dire . the Government have say time and again that no person who have commit what they describe as the " most serious " offence would be release early , but we know that to be completely false . the change in automatic release rule apply to all standard determinate sentence , and to every person who be on one . I reiterate that the independent Library briefing note confirm that these release will be automatic . More than 60 % of offender sentence to prison for rape receive standard determinate sentence , as do more than 90 % of those convict of child groom offence . around half of individual imprison for attempt murder be also give standard determinate sentence . each year , hundred of people convict of child rape or sexual assault , include offence involve victim age under 13 , serve those type of sentence . in total , more than 6 , 000 offender be send to prison annually for serious violent sexual offence , and they will get out of prison early under the Bill . I do not know in how many way I can explain that to member to overcome the briefing that it be not true , which be happen outside the Chamber . I have no choice but to take member through the number . I have in front of I the sentencing datum for those convict of the rape of a female aged 16 or over . in total , 590 man on average be send to prison for that offence every year . one hundred and ninety - seven of they would be exclude from the early release measure because they be give extended determinate sentence or life sentence , but 393 would not . that be 393 rapist — the vast majority — be send to prison every year who will be let out of prison early . that be without include those guilty of the rape of child , many of whom will also be let out of prison early . many member have speak about terrible case of cause death by dangerous driving . Glenn and Becky Youens from Justice for Victims campaign in memory of their daughter , Violet - Grace , who be kill at four year old by a drug dealer go at 80 mph in a 30 mph zone . the drug dealer flee the scene then return , step over she as she lie injure on the pavement , to get to their drug . be we seriously go to tell people such as Glenn and Becky that those perpetrator can get out of prison early in future ? because that be what will happen . every year , 169 offender on average be send to prison for cause death by dangerous driving . some 163 of they be give a standard determinate sentence and will get out of jail early as a result of the Bill , and some of they will serve only a third of their sentence . I have page of example . out of 228 offender send to prison every year for sexual grooming , 211 serve standard determinate sentence , and under the Bill , 196 will serve only a third of their sentence . out of 475 people send to prison every year for stalk , 458 serve standard determinate sentence , and under the Bill , 427 will serve only a third of their sentence . out of 576 offender send to prison every year for the offence of sexual activity involve a child under 16 , 502 will get out of prison early because of the Bill , and 269 of they will serve only a third of their sentence . this morning , the Home Secretary say that she be glad that the " vile child sex offender " , as she describe he , Hadush Kebatu , be off our street . she be right to welcome that . Kebatu be convict of sexual assault offence against woman and girl . what do the measure propose by the former Justice Secretary , who be now Home Secretary , mean in relation to other vile child sex offender who have be send to prison for the same offence ? I can tell the House that under the Bill , two third of the offender send to prison for similar sexual assault offence will have to serve only a third of their sentence . the Government celebrate remove those offender from the street , while at the same time legislate to put they back on the street . it be shameful that Labour Members , with their majority , vote against our amendment and new clause to remove the early release measure in specific circumstance . our new clause to remove the measure entirely remain before the House , even if we will not get the opportunity to vote on it today . new clause 19 seek to address a clear gap in the law that I believe the majority of Members across the House would agree must be close . at present , our sentencing framework require that a whole life order be impose on anyone convict of murder a police or prison officer while that officer be carry out their duty . that provision act as both a deterrent and a guarantee of justice for those who risk their life in confront dangerous offender , yet a recent court case have create a precedent that that measure will not be apply if the prison or police officer be not actively on duty at the time of their murder . I want to describe to the House the disturb event surround the murder of former prison officer Lenny Scott , who be kill by a violent offender he have once supervise . Mr Scott be work as a prison officer at HMP Altcourse in Liverpool . in 2020 , Elias Morgan offer he a bribe to keep it to himself that a phone have be find in Morgan ' s cell . the vast majority of prison officer do an excellent job and follow the rule , but the House will be aware of example of corruption in our prison service . Mr Scott could have take that bribe — he almost certainly know that Morgan be capable of violent offence and be involve in organised crime — and forget his duty and responsibility , but he do not . he refuse the bribe . he be then subject to death threat by Morgan . it be a matter of public record that Mr Scott ' s time as a prison officer be not unblemished , but when it come to the question of courage , sheer gut and bravery , refuse to be cow by a violent thug , and refuse to take the easy way out , Mr Scott be an exemplar , not just to prison officer but to all of we . but Morgan make good on his threat , wait for year , until 2024 , to murder Mr Scott in cold blood . it be a carefully plan murder . Lancashire police find evidence that the month before the murder , Morgan be scope out location link to Mr Scott . he drive close to Mr Scott ' s home in Prescot in Merseyside , a gym in the Speke area of Liverpool where Mr Scott sometimes train , and a gym on Peel Road in Skelmersdale , where the shooting would later take place . Morgan gun down Mr Scott as he be leave the gym , shoot he six time . Mr Scott do not stand a chance . in 2013 , the then Home Secretary , Theresa May — the former Prime Minister and right hon . member for Maidenhead — announce that we would change the law so that the murder of a police officer or a prison officer would result in a whole life order . speak at the time in relation to police officer , she say : " we ask police officer to keep we safe by confront and stop violent criminal for we . we ask you to take the risk so that we don ' t have to … we be clear : life should mean life for anyone convict of murder a police officer . " as prison officer carry out similar duty , the measure rightly include they . however , the sentencing for Mr Scott ' s murder have make it clear that the court have not understand the will of Parliament , because Morgan be not give a whole life order . he be give a life sentence with a minimum tariff . it be true to say that his sentenceis long than most , at 45 year , but Morgan be 35 when he be convict , so it be not inconceivable that he could get out one day . I do not believe that Parliament intend for criminal like he to ever get out . I be shock at that outcome ; it have not occur to I that the measure would not apply . I be very familiar with the measure in relation to police officer , follow my own time as a volunteer police officer , so my initial reaction be to believe that it must not have be apply to prison officer , and I raise that in the House . Parliament legislate to say that the ultimate sanction of our legal system should be use when police and prison officer be kill for do their job , and Lenny Scott be kill for do his job . the wording of the present measure refer to the murder take place in the course of their duty . I can not know with certainty what be in the mind of all parliamentarian when pass that legislation . maybe they have consider scenario such as the one that Mr Scott suffer and actively choose to exclude they , but even if they do , conservative be clear that they should not . our new clause would ensure that that loophole be close once and for all . when a police or prison officer be murder , if the motivation for the murder be connect to the police or prison officer ' s current or former duty , it should result in a whole - life order . we can not go back and secure that outcome for Mr Scott and his family , but I have have the pleasure of speak with Mr Scott ' s mother , who would very much welcome this change in memory of her son so that her family know that , although nothing can be undo , something positive can happen for other as a result . she have accept an invitation to attend Parliament and meet with I , and I be sure that the Minister would welcome the opportunity to meet she as well . indicate assent . I note that the Minister be nod . we can ensure that criminal know that the full possible consequence of the law will follow if they murder a police or prison officer simply because they be do their job . new clause 20 seek to establish notification and offender management requirement for those convict of child cruelty offence , in effect create a system similar to the sex offender register for individual who have abuse and neglect child . I want to be clear why this matter . every one of we in this House know that behind the legal language of child cruelty or abuse lie some of the most distressing and life - alter crime imaginable — crime in which a child , utterly dependent and vulnerable , get the bad instead of the good , often from those who be suppose to love and care for they . this measure will not fix everything — sadly , that be not the world we live in — but before we there be a clear and prove step we can take towards improve how we protect our child . at present , if somebody be convict of a sexual offence against a child , they be rightly place on the sex offender register . they be require to keep the police inform of their whereabouts , their identity and any change to their circumstance , include whether they live with child . the requirement sit separately from probation requirement . if a person be convict of an offence to which the requirement apply and receive a prison sentence of 13 month or more , the notification requirement be indefinite . that allow the police service , along with other agency , well to assess and manage risk and ultimately to protect child and other from harm . if a person be convict of horrific physical abuse , of neglect , or of cause a child ' s death through sustained cruelty , there be no equivalent requirement . once their sentence and probation be over , they can disappear into the community with no requirement to report where they live , no oversight by those who might need to protect other child , and no legal mechanism for ongoing management . that be a clear gap in our child protection system , and new clause 20 would correct it . a person convict of any of the list child cruelty or violence offence , include cause or allow the death of a child or vulnerable adult , child cruelty or neglect , infanticide , expose child whereby life be endanger , and female genital mutilation , would be require to notify the police of their detail within three day of conviction or release . they would have to confirm where they live , any other address they use and any name that they go by . they would have to keep that information up to date and confirm it annually , just as child sex offender already do . importantly , that information could be share between the police and other agency that work to safeguard child . that would give local law enforcement the information it need to identify the risk that individual could pose to the local community and to intervene with any precautionary measure early to protect child before harm could come . it would offer great protection to the public by ensure that those who have commit abuse and cruelty to child be treat in the same manner as those who have commit sexual abuse . let I say a few word about the reason why we be consider this measure and about an extraordinary lady call Paula Hudgell . Paula Hudgell ' s name have be speak before in this House . she be the adoptive mother of 11 - year - old Tony Hudgell , who have both leg amputate after abuse by his birth parent . she have previously campaign successfully for tough sentence to be available for child abuse offence , for which she be award an OBE . when Paula adopt Tony , the criminal responsible for what happen to he — his birth parent — be not even go to be prosecute . Paula tell I that if anyone have do to her birth child what they have do to Tony , she would have do everything that she could to pursue justice , and that Tony be no different , even though he be adopt . that be exactly what she do for he , and in the end his birth parent be convict . the maximum sentence they receive appalled Paula , and her first campaign begin , to change that maximum to a life sentence . however , during the course of her campaigning and from get to see the parole system and what it can do to monitor people after they have serve their sentence , Paula get an incredible insight into the system ' s flaw and what need to change . discuss it with a police officer , Becki Taft — I also pay tribute to she — who Paula get to know during the course of the prosecution , they both recognise the glaring omission that we be seek to remedy today , so Paula act . she be continue to act despite face enormous challenge in her personal circumstance , as she be undergo treatment for cancer that can no long be cure . Paula say : " I ' ve be battle cancer , but as long as I have fire in my belly , I ' ll keep fight to protect child by push for this register . that ' s what keep I go — know that Tony ' s legacy can help save other young life . " she be an incredible woman who I be honour to have get to know , and her MP , the shadow Solicitor General , my hon . friend the Member for Maidstone and Malling ( Helen Grant ) , have do so much to help Paula turn her campaign into word on a page — into legislation we can pass . she be someone I be pleased to be able to call a friend . I sincerely thank the Justice Secretary for take a direct interest in this issue , and I be sure that the Minister will also want to closely consider it . I want to ensure that the strength of feeling among Conservative member and other be reflect in the Lobby tonight . it may be that the Government be not ready to support this measure this evening . labour mp may feel that that be reasonable at this stage , but I would welcome a commitment from the Dispatch Box that will enable I to conclude that we can agree to work cross - party in the other place to get this do . I look forward to the rest of the debate , and to consider amendment table by other member . I hope I have be able to clearly explain our proposal , which relate to prison and police officer whole life order and the child cruelty register . however , whatever else this Bill achieve and whatever else we might reasonably disagree on , at the heart of the Bill be the big step backwards in secure justice for the victim of serious crime in a generation . for it to pass unamended would represent a betrayal of victim . I do not believe that Labour member want that , and it be not too late . I be confident that the Lords will not let this Bill pass unamended , so at some point , Labour mp will again be able to decide to say no to the Prime Minister and his plan . mp always have choice , and this Government spend £ 1 trillion a year on various service . whatever the positive and honourable intention Labour Members have when it come to secure justice for victim , and whatever positive measure they suggest , they will be disastrously undo if they do not work collaboratively to make clear that they will not support measure that will let thousand of serious violent and sexual offender out of prison early . my new clause 36 seek to implement a key recommendation of David Gauke ' s independent sentencing review , on which the measure in this Bill be base . the new clause propose that release at one third of a sentence should be conditional on positive action and purposeful activity , such as attend education class , engage in voluntary work and participate in drug rehabilitation . my amendment seek to address the prison capacity crisis by embed an emphasis on rehabilitation into the earn progression model from its very first stage . incentivising purposeful activity will do two thing . first , it will actively reward well behaviour within prison , lead to few instance of additional adjudication day be add . do my hon . friend agree that offer clear incentive for earn release be a key way of offer certain offender clear chance to change , thereby reduce the risk of reoffende and enhance public protection ? I absolutely agree . as my hon . friend will have see — she sit alongside I on the Justice Committee — there be clear evidence to back that up . secondly , start the process of rehabilitation through positive requirement early will reduce reoffende rate on release , thereby cut crime and consequently ease pressure on prison capacity in the long term . to develop my first point , inquiry by the Justice Select Committee have find worryingly high rate of drug and alcohol abuse , self - harm , and violence against inmate and staff . evidence submit by Collective Voice show that prisoner be more likely to develop substance misuse issue while in custody if they lack meaningful activity . the Prisoners ' Education Trust have describe how participate in education have rehabilitative benefit , help people in prison to occupy their time positively and learn new skill . his Majesty ' s inspectorate of prison find that the prison well able to tackle substance abuse combine clear boundary , high expectation and , importantly , meaningful incentive . prison such as HMP Oakwood and HMP Rye Hill , which offer rich , purposeful activity , see significantly low rate of drug use and well behaviour . by incentivising engagement in well - resource , purposeful activity , new clause 36 would reduce the likelihood of prisoner turn to substance or violence . in turn , few prisoner would incur additional day on their sentence , which would ease overcrowding and the strain on prison staff . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . as she say , the chief inspector of prison have find that rehabilitation in prison be not work . this Bill present an opportunity for a sea change in how that work , as well as in reoffende when people leave prison . as a member of the Select Committee , she will know that we will soon produce a major report on rehabilitation . it be essential that purposeful activity become the norm in prison , and not the exception . I thank my hon . friend , the Chair of the Select Committee . I greatly trust and rely on his opinion . it be essential that rehabilitative work be available to all in prison , as I will go on to talk about in a little more detail . on my second point , structured rehabilitation during custody prepare individual for life after release . as the earn progression model stand , the emphasis on rehabilitation begin largely during the intensive supervision stage . while I welcome the focus and measure in the Bill to tackle the root cause of crime , we should not wait until release from custody to begin that important work . too often , individual return upon release to the same environment , the same pressure and the same risk that contribute to their offending in the first place . why wait , when we can intervene when they be most reachable ? we literally have a captive audience . if people leave custody have already engage in structured rehabilitation , they be more likely to respond positively to supervision and less likely to reoffend . that in turn reduce pressure on the Probation Service , which be also already under immense strain . to summarise , the model propose by new clause 36 be fair and proportionate , actively reward good behaviour while existing provision in the Bill punish bad behaviour . those who engage constructively while in custody through an earn progression scheme may be release as early as a third in . those who break the rule will serve more day . meanwhile , those who neither engage positively nor breach rule will see no change in their release date . that ensure that rehabilitation , positive behaviour , purposeful activity and step towards reintegration be actively incentivise and bake in to the earn progression model from the start . have say that , I understand that practicality have to be consider in implement this positive requirement scheme , if it be to be successful . year of neglect by the previous Government have leave our prison system overstretch and under - resource . on 4 February , the Justice Committee hear evidence from clink , the Prison Reform Trust , Women in Prison , and Nacro . we be tell during that session that only 50 % of prisoner be engage in education or work , which be often part - time and not rehabilitative . that be due to staffing shortage , overcrowding and limited resource and facility . in essence , we have inherit prison that can not offer the programme people need and access to purposeful activity be highly inconsistent . I recognise the immense scale of the challenge in get the prison system to a place where the proposal in my new clause can be implement fairly , effectively and with the necessary resource across the country . while I do not expect the Government to accept my new clause today , I strongly urge the Minister to commit to incorporate positive requirement on purposeful activity in the earn progression model as soon as condition allow . this incremental approach be in line with the position that David Gauke outline in his review . he say : " this Review hold the view that , as prison capacity ease and full regime become possible , compliance requirement for earn release should become more demanding . " only by do this will we truly future - proof our prison , help people to turn their back on crime , and ensure , unlike the last government , that we always have place in our prison for the most dangerous offender . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as the House have hear repeatedly in recent week , our justice system be crumble under the strain in our court , prison and probation service , bulge at the seam , stretch to the limit and ultimately fail all who come into contact with it . it be not adequately punish criminal , not rehabilitate they , and not protect victim and survivor . confidence have be slowly erode and undermine . this have to end . the Bill provide ample opportunity for we to address these issue , with scope to consider how we tackle the loom projection of a prison population of over 100 , 000 in just three year ' time . I be disappointed that such a large Bill , which make fundamental change to sentencing , be not give the line - by - line scrutiny that a Bill Committee , rather than a Committee of the whole House , could have afford it . the Liberal Democrats be supportive of many of the step take in the Bill , and , in the spirit of work collaboratively on a crisis that affect we all , we have table a number of amendment that seek to improve and strengthen it . for example , we welcome clause 3 , which would give court the power to order offender to make monthly payment from their income , and we have table new clause 3 to ask the Government to assess whether income reduction order could be use to fund victim support . on the topic of financial penalty , new clause 33 would create a power for sentence court to require offender to make periodic payment or other contribution towards the maintenance and welfare of their dependant , ensure that their responsibility to provide support be not automatically void during a custodial sentence . create a presumption of a suspend sentence for term of under 12 month be a measure for which the Liberal Democrats have long campaign . it be a necessary step to reduce prison overcrowding , but it also play a vital role in reduce reoffende , with rehabilitation offer in the community . sixty - two per cent of those serve custodial sentence of less than 12 month go on to reoffend , but only 24 % reoffend if they be give a suspend sentence or a community order . we do not need to send offender to prison to become well criminal ; we need to support they to become well citizen . create a rehabilitative system will , in the long term , reduce cost , protect victim and ease the pressure on our public service . the work of our justice system should be centre on that goal , for the good of all . to that end , new clause 12 would allow and facilitate access to rehabilitative programme , education , therapy and other support for prisoner hold on remand before their sentencing hearing . as of June this year , 20 % of the prison population be on remand and yet to have their sentencing hearing . with court backlog at an all - time high , we see offender arrive at their sentencing hearing , receive their sentence , and then head straight home because of the length of time that they have serve on remand . remand prison be often overcrowded , and typically suffer from understaffing and inadequate facility . these prisoner should be offer the same level of support as sentence prisoner if we be to reduce the level of reoffende . we be , of course , supportive of the identifier that be include in the Bill follow the work of my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , in collaboration with the Government . I commend his hard work and determination to make tangible change for those who have experience domestic abuse , provide great confidence that their abuser will be deal with suitably in the system , and I thank the Government for their constructive engagement with he on this issue . however , our campaign do not end there . new clause 8 would ensure that domestic abuse be treat as an aggravated offence , reflect the severity and the long - term impact of such crime on victim . new clause 9 ask the Government " to carry out an assessment of the potential benefit of create mandatory rehabilitative programme " to tackle violence against woman and girl , for individual sentence to offence such as assault , battery and actual bodily harm when the victim be female . we have also table a number of amendment relate to the Probation Service , because none of this mean anything if probation be not properly resource . I know that the Government will refer to the £ 700 million of additional funding , but it be not yet be feel on the frontline of probation , where the situation remain as describe by his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Probation early this year . accord to the inspectorate , the service " have too few staff , with too little experience and training , manage too many case . " without maximum caseload , we open ourselves up to a high risk of human error and also a more cautious approach to recall , because staff simply do not have the capacity to manage people in the community effectively . probation officer believe fundamentally in rehabilitation and in support offender to reintegrate into society , but I must raise some serious concern around the removal of the exist short - term and standard recall in favour of a 56 - day blanket recall for all offender except those identify through a multi - agency public protection arrangement . for example , under the current guidance , somebody who might be engage with mental health service in the community but not attend their probation appointment — somebody who be therefore non - compliant with their agreement — would be recall for 28 day under a fix - term recall . that mean that , if they be in temporary accommodation , as we know a lot of people come out of prison be , the likelihood be that the accommodation will still be there when they have serve their fix term , and they can re - engage with the programme in the community that they be already on . under the new arrangement , though , in the same circumstance , somebody recall for 56 day would be come out and , in effect , start again , have lose their accommodation arrangement and their place on the community programme with which they be engage , as place be typically only hold for up to four week . the likelihood of they then go on to reoffend — in a cycle — will increase , and we will see the same people be recall . at the other end of the spectrum , if a serious offender breach their licence by intimidate , harass or stalk their victim , instead of receive a standard recall , which would last until the end of their sentence , they would be return to serve just 56 day . those who in probation be classify as medium - risk offender — that cover the majority of offence relate to violence against woman and girl , include domestic abuse perpetrator and stalker — would not come under the Government ' s propose exclusion relate to MAPPA level 2 and 3 . on Monday in this Chamber , we speak at length and there be consensus across the House that we need to do more to support victim , but the recall measure in the Bill directly contradict that desire . there be a serious omission , which we be extremely concerned will lead to the release of dangerous criminal on to our street , who will then continue to reoffend . new clause 31 would ensure that offender who have commit certain serious offence would not be eligible for automatic release follow a fix - term recall , and I implore the Minister to go away and look at that proposal . this Bill provide a great chance to address some key issue in our justice system , and it show sign of life , take an innovative approach to some issue , but it ultimately lack vision and , expectedly , funding . I thank member for their engagement , and encourage they to support new clause 12 . I be pleased to support this vital Sentencing Bill , which represent a significant step towards protect victim and deliver justice . I would like to draw member ' attention to new clause 8 and 31 and amendment 1 . the Conservatives claim to be champion of law and order , yet their record be of lawless disorder . after 14 year in power , they increase sentence length without plan the prison place to uphold they , deliver just a few hundred space while violence , drug and chaos spiral across our prison estate . they leave our justice system on the brink , and force the early release of more than 10 , 000 offender in secret , shatter public confidence . this government be take a different path . we be deliver the large prison expansion since victorian time ; 2 , 500 new place be already open and we be on track for 14 , 000 by 2031 . we will ensure that we will never again run out of prison capacity . we must also make prison work . that mean punishment that cut crime through earn release , tough community sentence , intensive supervision and proper rehabilitation that turn offender away from crime for good . central to make sentencing work be protect victim , not just at the point of conviction but every day thereafter . I thank the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) for highlight the important issue of domestic abuse in new clause 8 and 31 . the Bill introduce a powerful new mechanism under clause 6 , " find of domestic abuse " , by ensure that , once the court be satisfied that an offence involve domestic abuse , it must declare that be the case in an open court , permanently recognise the heighten harm to victim . this activate strong protection , which can include electronic tagging and exclusion zone , ensure that offender can be track in real time and keep away from victim ' home and workplace . the " Loose Women " face it together campaign have powerfully show the real human impact of domestic abuse and the urgent need for continuous protection . the measure in the Bill meet that need , ensure that abuser can not return to intimidate or control and that victim be safeguard , with the full force of the law behind they . these landmark reform will end the crisis that we inherit , and restore faith in a justice system that protect the public and put victim first . since my election , I have be campaign tirelessly on the issue of tool theft , a crime that devastate the livelihood of tradespeople across our country . there be too many to list in this House today , but I expect that we all know someone who have be a victim of this crime . the rate of suicide among construction worker be the high of any profession — four time high than that for any other occupation . in December 2024 , I lay a ten - minute rule Bill before the House that call for tool theft to be recognise as a significant additional harm and for court to consider the total financial loss to victim . that would mean consider not just the value of the tool themselves , but the cost of repair and the loss of work , and the ripple effect on business and family . have work closely with Justice Ministers over the past year , I be pleased to see that the Bill recognise the additional protection need for victim , for which the sector have be call . this Bill , with its provision require court to consider the full impact of theft on victim , its new restriction zone that can ban prolific thief from construction site and tool retailer , and its tough community sentence , deliver transformative protection for tradespeople . although the government do not support amendment 1 , table by the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , I thank he for enable a discussion on the wide impact of crime . I be pleased to note that the Bill require court to consider the full impact of crime , include psychological harm . it recognise what victim of tool theft and , indeed , all crime have be tell we all along : harm do not stop when tool be steal or a crime be commit . the psychological harm of lose one ' s livelihood , the anxiety about future theft and the mental health impact of not be able to work be real harm that must be consider when sentence offender , and the Bill deliver in this regard . these reform will protect the public through tough sentencing and tight monitoring , cut crime by stop reoffende before it happen , support victim by recognise harm and prevent future abuse , and build a safe society with less crime and , ultimately , few victim . I wish to speak to new clause 20 , regard the introduction of a child cruelty register . Tony and Paula Hudgell be my constituent , and I have have the honour of get to know both of they — especially Paula , Tony ' s adoptive mum — extremely well . one special aspect of our job as mps be get to meet incredible people do incredible thing , often behind the public gaze , but in a decade and a half as a member — I be show my age now — I have personally never come across such a courageous , driven and united mother - and - son team . that be what they be : a team , especially give Tony ' s young age of 11 . new clause 20 would introduce a child cruelty register , describe so eloquently and passionately by the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , who be also a great champion of victim . it underline what our job be really about : change and improve the life of our constituent , keep they safe and protect the most vulnerable . when Tony be just a little baby — 41 day old — his birth parent , Jody Simpson and Anthony Smith , abuse he so badly that he have to have both his leg amputate . Tony will have to live with the consequence of his injury for the rest of his life . Smith and Simpson be sentence to 10 year ' imprisonment by a judge at Maidstone Crown court — at the time , the maximum that the judge could give . they serve eight year , and be release quite recently . they will be manage and monitor by police and probation for the remain two year of their sentence , but after that , there be nothing — zero . there will be no management , no monitoring , and no reporting requirement if they change their name , start a new family , move county or have more child , and their case detail will be archive , leave a terrible and dangerous gap in our child protection system . I be a legal aid family lawyer for over 20 year prior to become a Member of Parliament , and I specialise in child abuse and domestic violence work . Most day of the week , I would attend various county court around the south - east of the country , obtain non - molestation injunction and occupation order , mainly for woman and child . some perpetrator go to prison follow criminal proceeding , but upon release far too many would go straight back to their former home and abuse their family all over again . it be like a vicious circle . the point I want to make be that prison can of course be a good rehabilitation , but , tragically , many upon leave prison remain a risk . as parliamentarian , we must do all we can , when we have the chance , to manage and eradicate that risk . the child cruelty register would require people convict of certain child cruelty offence to provide personal detail and information to the police . the information would be keep on record , allow the police and probation to continue to manage and monitor those who remain a risk after the completion of their sentence . experience have show I — and it really have — that people who commit serious crime often move around , include by move county , and they deliberately avoid detection by not register with health service , social service and other agency . the notification requirement in the new clause would serve as a good single identifier to help stop some family slip through the net . in other respect , the register would operate in a very similar manner to the sex offender register . I would like to end my speech with a message from Paula . she say : " no child should ever endure what Tony go through . the suffering he experience as a baby change all of our life forever . for the past seven year , I have fight tirelessly for a Child Cruelty Register because I believe that those who commit such horrific crime against child should never be allow to simply disappear from the system once their sentence end . a register would mean proper monitoring , accountability , and protection — not just for Tony , but for every child in this country . it be heartbreake that , right now , known abuser can change their name , move to new area , and form new relationship " — or have more child — " without any requirement to tell the authority . that be a loophole that put child at serious risk . " as Paula ' s MP , I repeat again that , as parliamentarian , we have a duty to do all we can when we have the chance , as we do today with this Bill , to eradicate that terrible risk . I want to speak in support of new clause 36 , which would require offender to comply with an earn progression scheme before be subject to release . I think that be an important opportunity to enhance the Government ' s ambition for this Bill , because shoplifting , antisocial behaviour and car break - in continue to plague my constituent in Accrington town centre . increase in level of town centre crime and break - in be often cause by offender release early who have fail to receive the rehabilitation they require . they often have drug or alcohol addiction , and they be back on the street try to feed those addiction , and stick in a cycle of lose , lose , lose — for my resident , for the police and for the taxpayer . although we must be tough on crime , we must also tackle the root cause of crime and ensure that the system deliver for victim and stop the revolve door of our prison that serve none of we . the reform to the community order requirement will lead to less crime and safe street for my constituent in a number of area . the Bill will provide a more tailored and effective approach to punishment and rehabilitation , because court will have expand tool to tailor community and suspend sentence order to well fit the individual offender , the offence and the risk pose . the Bill add new community requirement to the list of option attach to a community or suspend sentence order , such as prohibition on drive or attend pub , bar , club or public event , and be restrict to geographic zone . that enhance flexibility mean that sentence in the community can be more meaningful and effective — not just a series of generic task , but specifically calibrate to the offender ' s behaviour , the harm cause and the need to protect the public and victim . it ensure that community - base sentence be not perceive as light or ineffective , but carry real condition and consequence . the Bill also strengthen public protection and victim confidence ; in fact , bolster protection for victim and community be one of the key aim of the reform . by allow restriction zone , ban on attend premise that sell alcohol or public event , and drive prohibition , the Bill enable court to impose order that explicitly guard against certain behaviour or context associate with risk . those measure reassure victim that offender remain under meaningful restriction and that community sentence carry real weight and oversight , rather than be a passive " watch and wait " approach . in turn , that help to maintain public confidence in our justice system and support the principle that people who offend should face real consequence . furthermore , the Bill support rehabilitation while reduce the unnecessary use of custody , which must be for the most violent and serious offender . it complement the broad move to ensure that custody be use appropriately — not as a default for low - level offender , but reserve for case where it be necessary for public protection . by strengthen community order and equip the court with more tailored requirement , the Bill support the case that many offender can be manage in the community through condition that deter , restrict and rehabilitate . for far too long , the evidence have show that it be those change that will tackle the ongoing problem that the court and prison be face , as well as the ongoing issue with that low - level but incredibly damaging crime happen time and again in our community . such approach help to reduce prison overcrowding , well align our resource , and focus custodial capacity on those who most require it . at the same time , the reform encourage compliance — for example , by introduce a community sentence progression scheme , under which offender who fully comply with the requirement and complete their sentence may have their community order terminate early . there be practical benefit for community , offender and the Probation Service . for community , community order become more visible and meaningful . the add condition reflect the reality that punishment and supervision in the community should be not less than custody , but different . for offender , the structured environment of a community sentence with tailor requirement offer the possibility of real change through supervision , conditional freedom and accountability , rather than automatic imprisonment , which can increase harm and reoffende . for the Probation Service , the Bill ' s provision also include strengthen investment in community supervision , well tool for monitoring and enforcement , and clear mechanism for reward compliance . in conclusion , the Bill represent a significant advance in our justice framework , offer modernise , flexible and robust community sentencing option that strengthen public protection , shore up victim confidence , support rehabilitation and make more effective and efficient use of our resource . the new community order requirement and community requirement be central to that : by give court more precise , meaningful power , they ensure that justice be do in the community as well as through custody . I be confident that they will make a real difference to my constituent in Hyndburn , who be rightfully frustrated that they see the same people cause the same problem , and no real solution to the crime that those people be commit . as we return to consideration of this dreadful Bill , we debate amendment and new clause that be design to mitigate its bad effect , in particular new clause 43 , 21 , 18 , 19 and 20 , which I have sign , and new clause 1 . on new clause 1 , will my right hon . friend give way ? it be early in my speech , but such be my regard for my right hon . friend that I will . I be very grateful . as a former sentencing Minister , I can see no logical reason why the Government would oppose new clause 1 — table by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) , my fellow Leicestershire MP — which simply ask for an assessment and recommendation to be make and for they to be report back to this House . can my right hon . friend , who be himself a former senior Home Office Minister , see any reason why the Government could not simply do the right thing and accept new clause 1 ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his remark about my experience in government , which be far too flattering . I agree that new clause 1 be precisely the kind of amendment that the Government could accept . he will know from his time in government , as I do , that no Act be the Bill as it begin , for Bills metamorphose during their consideration . wise government listen to argument that be make during scrutiny , either on the Floor of the House or in Committee , and the good Ministers allow the Bill that they introduce to change over time . that be the purpose of Parliament . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) have do a service to this House in table this new clause , thereby allow the Minister to improve the Bill in the way he suggest . as we have debate this Bill over time , a distinct difference have emerge between practicality and principle . the question remain : be this a Bill build on expediency — a necessary response to the unbearable tension between prison supply and the demand for prison place — or a Bill bear of a distaste for incarceration as a means of deliver justice ? the first be inexcusable ; the second indefensible ; but neither be inexorable . in practice , as the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) say , if remand be treat in a different way — and that , essentially , be about more court sitting and more court time for fast access to justice — few prisoner would be keep on remand . if we do not believe that , we would have to assume that every person bring to trial would be find guilty or imprison , which can not be true . if we deal with the huge number of foreign national offender more swiftly — [ interruption . ] I know the Government be make those attempt , but it be not enough , any more than what the previous Government do . if we deal with that issue more swiftly , we would alter the demand for place , for too much of the debate focus on the supply of prison place and not on the demand - side driver that absorb place , which could be ease . when we last debate the Bill , we talk about my idea for supply - side change . I will not repeat myself , for you would not allow I to do so , Madam Deputy Speaker , in relation to the amendment and new clause before we today . however , the Minister need to think more laterally and creatively . I imagine that he be a bright man — or bright - ish , at least . if he do so , he could look at those demand - side driver and deal with the practicality . as for principle , it be time to end the liberal orthodoxy that have perpetuate the pervasive myth that crime be an illness to be treat , and not a destructive , deviant decision that warrant punishment . in the previous debate we hear many time the argument that everyone deserve a second chance , which I have no doubt underpin much of the resistance to the amendment propose today . as I listen to the powerful case my hon . friend the Member for Maidstone and Malling ( Helen Grant ) make , I ask myself this : can anyone in this place with a heart believe that those who terrorise and torture child persistently and who maim and murder innocent babe — sometimes their own — deserve a second chance ? can anyone with a heart really believe that those who kill two people dedicate to the service of other — Jo Cox and Sir David Amess , Members of this House — deserve a second chance ? do that awful self - delude islamist fanatic who plot and plan and execute little girl at a pop concert deserve a second chance ? the only second chance they all deserve be when they stand before their maker and beg for forgiveness . for we to forgive such extreme act be to play God . forgiveness at that level and to that degree be beyond any Member in this Chamber , for it be beyond any human being . that be what I think about second chance . furthermore , every time we make the case for second chance , we displace the proper attention we should give the victim . that be what several of the amendment seek to address , particularly those in the name of my hon . friend the shadow Minister . as I have say before and be not afraid to say again , he have be a champion of victim and he deserve great credit for be so . in advance the amendment before we , we must make a principled case for just desert . just desert essentially mean that people get what they deserve . those who choose by any mean to get what they want , include by violence , deception and harm to other , deserve to be punish . it be so obvious — so intuitively right — that it be what the overwhelming majority of decent , law - abide people feel . it be what our constituent expect we to recognise and to act on . those who suffer from the fear and reality of crime be frustrate , to say the least , that the old order — the liberal orthodoxy that have dominate public discourse for too long — do not recognise that plain fact . I think it be Chesterton who say , " tolerance be the virtue of the man without conviction . " we hear a lot about tolerance , but we hear far too little about conviction . that old order be out of tune with popular sentiment and out of time , yet the Sentencing Council perpetuate those prejudice . that be why it must go . it represent that old bankrupt order . do the right hon . member realise that the Sentencing Council do not just pluck out of the air its sentencing recommendation ? it consult widely with a variety of organisation , people work in the criminal justice system and the public before come to its conclusion about the right sentence for offence . I would submit that there should be recognition of the work that it do . I simply say to the hon . Lady that when we delegate that kind of authority to those who be unelected and unaccountable , we be no long do our job . her view , which have prevail for a very long time , be not entirely the fault of Labour ; it be a problem with the whole political class . we have create every kind of body imaginable in every aspect of government to do thing that should be do by this House and by Ministers of the Crown . the Sentencing Council be just another of those body . who know who be on the Sentencing Council ? certainly most of the hon . Lady ' s constituent and most of mine would not have a clue , and they certainly would not know how to influence they in any way . of course , it be work people who be most disadvantaged by that , not the privileged few who occupy the social circle that the Sentencing Council no doubt occupy . it be the hard - work , patriotic and law - abide majority in my constituency and her who be frustrate by a criminal justice system that persistently excuse the bad kind of crime rather than punish they as they deserve to be punish . there be a new future emerge in the post - liberal age as we build a new order . that order will be inspire by time - honour truth , root in the will of the people and power by a ceaseless determination to recapture our country for our people . Burke say : " bad law be the bad sort of tyranny . " the tyranny of the cruelty of crime and disorder will haunt place and people across our country as the vile and vicious be let loose . I urge the House to accept the variety of amendment that I have mention and the many other on the amendment paper that be attempt to rescue the Bill from that horror . I rise to speak to the amendment that I have table . I be delighted to have another attempt to stop the Government do something that defy justice as well as common sense and that will make our street less safe . as I say in Committee , my amendment would mean that some serious offender would not be give the " get out of jail free " card propose by the Government . since Committee , we have have the ludicrous situation involve Hadush Kebatu , who be release from prison after be jail for sex offence . quite rightly , there be a public outcry and widespread condemnation from politician . the massive irony be that if the Bill have already be pass , he would have qualify for the presumption in favour of a suspend prison sentence and would not have be in prison in the first place . under my amendment 15 , 16 , 24 and 25 , foreign offender and sex offender would not be include in the presumption in favour of a suspend sentence when an immediate prison sentence be deem to be the right outcome by the court , so someone like Kebatu would still be send to prison . I hope that Labour Members agree with those amendment , especially give that the Health Secretary say : " this man be behind bar because of serious sex offence … so the idea that he ' s loose on the street be incredibly serious . " perhaps the Health Secretary will back my amendment , and perhaps he will have a word with the Justice Secretary to get he to back my amendment as well . follow the Kebatu debacle , people have blame the incompetence of prison staff in release he , yet if the government do not accept my amendment we will not need to be concern about the incompetence or otherwise of our Prison Service , because such offender will not even go to prison . however , we can be sure of the incompetence of the Government in allow these sentencing change to happen and in not send offender like Kebatu to prison . even the Secretary of State for Justice say : " let ' s be clear , Kebatu commit a nasty sexual assault involve a young child and a woman , and for those reason this of course be very serious . " on Monday , he say to the House : " Mr Kebatu ' s victim be rightly outraged about what have happen . I be livid on their behalf , and on behalf of the public . " he also say : " he be back where he belong : behind bar . " — [ Official Report , 27 October 2025 ; Vol . 774 , c . 43 . ] if it be so serious , and the Justice Secretary really mean that Kebatu belong behind bar , why on his watch will the Bill ensure that the next Kebatu will not be behind bar , and will not be send to prison in the first place ? these be serious question that need to be answer . it be not too late for the Government to stop this dangerous aspect of the Bill and prove to everyone outside this Chamber that they be not hypocrite , by accept my amendment . while they be at it , the Government need to seriously consider accept my amendment 20 and 29 , which would prevent those who commit knife crime from be eligible for suspend sentence . the Government should hang their head in shame for propose a non - prison sentence for the offence of carry a knife on our street , and even for those who commit the offence more than once . I be sure that many member will know of case where someone have be injure or kill by a knife . everyone who vote for the Bill without amendment will be vote to enable someone who carry a knife or threaten people with a knife , even repeatedly , to avoid prison . while I do not doubt for a second the right hon . Lady ' s impassioned belief in the need to keep dangerous offender off our street , do she agree that it be actually the Conservative Government that cut funding to our prison ? there be a 24 % real - term cut from 2010 to 2015 , result in 30 % cut in staffing . that have clearly have an impact on the ability of any Government to send individual to prison , and it happen under the last Government . I shall remind the hon . Member what happen . the last Labour Government collapse the economy , and the coalition be bring into power to get the book back on track . unfortunately , as always happen after a Labour Government , spending have to be cut because they have bankrupt the country . when there be more money in the bank , we do need to invest more , and that be why the last Conservative Government put £ 4 billion into build more prison . three have now be complete and there be a further three leave to be complete . do member really want it on their conscience that they be change the law for people with knife or who threaten with knife ? I think not . labour have always talk tough on this matter , but now that it be in a position to do something about it , it fail . the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) state : " under a Labour Government , there will be tough consequence for carry a knife . a Labour Government will end the empty word and apology letter for knife possession , and will guarantee sanction and serious intervention for young people who carry knife . " — [ Official Report , 21 May 2025 ; Vol . 750 , c . 332WH . ] those be the word of the Labour party , but sadly , Labour will not do that . time and again , Labour be prove to be a party of empty word and broken promise , and this will be yet another example . there will be plenty of people ready and willing to remind Labour Members of this , especially an outraged public . there will be no word of comfort for the family of a needless victim of this type of crime . member should also think twice about the fact that those who assault emergency worker will be include in this prison avoidance Bill . I know that many Labour mp very much support the introduction of the offence of assault an emergency worker , with its increase sentence for those who be convict , yet all of that will have be for nothing if the Bill be pass in its current form , because people who assault emergency worker and receive sentence of 12 month or less will be likely to avoid prison altogether . have work hard to increase the sentence to 12 month in prison for assault an emergency worker , Labour will now effectively be agree to zero month in prison in many case . the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , who introduce the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 , do so to ensure that those assault emergency worker feel " the full force of the law " . — [ Official Report , 27 April 2018 ; Vol . 639 , c . 1159 . ] the right hon . member for Lewisham West and East Dulwich ( Ellie Reeves ) support the legislation and say that it be " long overdue " . the trade union support it . the GMB national officer say at the time : " it ' s welcome to see arrest take place , but we also need to see an increase in prosecution and tough sentence hand down for these unacceptable assault . " my amendment 17 and 26 would exclude the offence from the Bill and show support for those who risk their life to keep we all safe . what a kick in the tooth it will be for emergency worker to know that this government do not have their back at all . it seem the Government would rather be on the side of many of those who assault our emergency worker or to keep they from be send to prison — as they should be . the amendment would also exclude assault on those generally provide a public service . my amendment 16 and 25 would provide a number of exemption to the presumption of a suspend prison sentence base on the offend history of the criminal in question — for example , where someone have commit a particular serious offence that would be cover by the unduly lenient sentence scheme or one that require a mandatory minimum sentence . the unduly lenient sentence scheme cover sexual offence , stalk , put someone in fear of violence , serious harm or distress , control or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship , and inflict grievous bodily harm or unlawful wounding , among other offence . the amendment would also prevent someone from be cover if they be due to be sentence for three or more offence at the same time . in addition , and crucially , the amendment would ensure that those who have be release early from prison and be out on licence would not be eligible for this presumption in favour of a suspend prison sentence for offend again when they should really be lock up . get one " get out of jail free " card due to early release be bad enough , but get a second one would be an absolute scandal , and yet that be precisely what the Bill propose . my amendment 18 , 19 , 21 , 22 , 27 , 28 , 30 and 31 would remove the suspend sentence presumption for those guilty of firearm offence , burglary or terrorism - relate offence , and those who fail to surrender to custody . I can not believe that it have be necessary to even put these amendment down — surely it make sense that those people would go to prison — but with this Government I have to table these amendment to this abomination of a Bill before the House today . as the Bill stand , the presumption of a suspend prison sentence will apply to those for whom the starting point for their sentence be 18 month . sentence of that length be not give lightly — someone have to have do something pretty serious for that to be the starting point . however , by plead guilty and get a third off , the offender may have to be keep out of prison as they then would be at the 12 - month sentence point and be cover by the Bill . amendment 32 and 36 would mean that this would not be the case as the sentence would have to be one of 12 month or less before the credit for a guilty plea be take into account . amendment 35 and 39 would mean that anyone avoid prison thank to this Bill should have the maximum length of a suspend sentence give to they . in other word , the sentence would hang over they for the long possible time . amendment 14 and 23 would ensure that those give a suspend sentence be electronically tag throughout in the hope that it might reduce they reoffende or make it much easy to catch they if they commit further offence when , again , they should already be in prison . the Bill currently say that if the court be of the opinion that make the order would put a particular individual at significant risk of physical or psychological harm , the presumption in favour of a suspend sentence would not apply . my amendment 33 and 37 would take that a stage far to include the public . why not any individual as oppose to a particular individual ? amendment 34 and 38 would also take out the word " significant " so that any risk would be cover . if the court believe there be a risk to an identifiable person or an identifiable member of the public , they should be protect by ensure that the person cause the potential risk to they be lock up . that do not seem like rocket science to I . it would be completely wrong to do anything other than protect those people from all kind of unnecessary risk . new clause 43 would mean that the Bill cease to have effect two year after its introduction . if anyone be seriously support the Bill on the basis that it be a necessary measure to alleviate prison overcrowding , they should be happy to agree to the new clause in the light of how many prison place the Government will provide , include another three prison come on board with around 4 , 500 place . more importantly , we do not need a crystal ball to realise that the Bill will cause untold damage to the country . offender will be laugh all the way to their next crime , and there will sadly be countless victim of those needless crime . the public may not yet be fully aware of what be come their way , but in two year they will have see some of the consequence of the Bill , and many will want it to be urgently reverse . the new clause would make that happen . when describe the botched release of release of Hadush Kebatu early this week , the Secretary of State for Justice say : " any release in error be one too many . " I say to he that any " get out of jail free " card under this Bill be one too many , and it would certainly not have be an error ; it would have be very deliberate by the Government . my amendment try to restrict some of the damage that will otherwise be cause by the Bill . it be absolutely clear that the Government be propose to let a whole load of serious criminal avoid prison and run amok in our community . any right - minded person here today will vote wholeheartedly in favour of my amendment and against the Bill . I welcome the Minister , my former Home Affairs Committee colleague , to his place . I urge all member to support the excellent amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , particularly new clause 11 on the suspension of drive licence during bail on driving - relate offence , which be a common - sense proposal . I echo her praise of our hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) for his excellent , passionate and successful campaign on tag for domestic abuse crime — a policy that the Government have adopt . I join my hon . friend the Member for Chichester in urge the Government to go far than that by support new clause 8 , which would make those aggravate crime . I table new clause 35 , which have already receive support from across the House , on behalf of the of the saltern family from my North Cornwall constituency . their campaign — know as Ryan ' s law — be launch a few year ago by Helen and Mark Saltern after their son Ryan be tragically hit and kill by a car after leave the village carnival in St Teath . the driver do not stop to check on Ryan , administer first aid or even phone the police or other emergency service . instead , Ryan — a father of one — be leave in the road to die . the driver drive into work the next day as if nothing have happen . what punishment be the offender give for that fatal hit and run ? he avoid prison entirely and be hand just a four - month suspend sentence by the magistrate court . the family of course acknowledge that accident happen , but the driver leave a young man die in the road , do not even give it a second thought as he speed off — too cowardly to do the right thing — and do not spend a single day in prison for his crime . I can not imagine the pain that the family must feel . in response to that enormous injustice , they launch their " Ryan ' s law " campaign and a petition that receive overwhelming national support , reach 167 , 000 signature . countless other family have be affect by similar case right across this country . I would like to draw attention to two case in my constituency , one of which I have speak about before in this place , in which a lady call Lorraine lose her life . it involve somebody who be drive , possibly while look at their mobile phone , and again , that person do not go to prison . it be tragic that my hon . friend ' s new clause have to set out thing that to most of we would seem absolutely natural . someone should not have to be tell to stop , to report , and to phone the police — to do all those thing . I think this new clause be necessary , but it be a terrible shame that we live in a world where people do not think that be the right way to behave . I completely agree with my hon . friend . it be a horrible indictment on our society and our country that we have to table such a new clause . sadly , however , because of the hundred , if not thousand , of case such as the one she rightly point out , unfortunately it be necessary . Mark and Helen Saltern , and their daughter Leanne , have campaign tirelessly for year on this issue . the family have set up RysHaven , a safe , dedicated space where grieve family of hit - and - run victim can escape to Cornwall to take a moment to breathe , process , and recover from their heartbreaking trauma . new clause 35 , would introduce three new aggravating factor to the Bill . it would mean that offender such as the man who hit and kill Ryan Saltern would have the failure to stop , the failure to administer first aid , and the failure to alert emergency service about the hit and run add as " aggravating factor " , specifically when it come to sentence those guilty of cause death or serious injury by dangerous driving . I also support new clause 21 , table by the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) . death by dangerous driving should , of course , result in a lifetime driving ban — as my hon . friend the Member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) say early , that just seem common sense . I urge colleague from across this House to support my new clause . this be not just for Ryan and his family ; the new clause be for the hundred of hit - and - run victim across this country . I urge Ministers to hear I , and the thousand of love one who be leave to suffer such injustice . please right this gross wrong . if the Government will not accept the new clause tonight , I sincerely hope that they will give it serious consideration . the Bill illustrate a wide theme that we see across a number of debate in the House , which be the gap between the Government ' s word and how they vote . indeed , that be illustrate by a number of the new clause that colleague on the Opposition Benches have already speak to . new clause 14 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) , highlight the inconsistency within the Labour manifesto that set out a commitment to give 16 and 17 - year - old the right to vote , but then say that even if they commit an offence so serious that it warrant a custodial sentence of four or more year , that person be too young to be name . I ask the House of Commons Library to clarify that . a custodial sentence of four or more year be not give out lightly by the court , particularly not to those of that age , and it say that this would involve serious sexual offence , murder , or armed robbery . we see tweet from member of Parliament when a boy or girl be stab to death , but Labour Members be not willing to vote to name those who commit such offence . it be wrong to deny victim transparency when such serious offence have take place , but it be bizarre to do so when also say that those same people be old enough to vote at that age . such inconsistency be not limit to new clause 14 , so let I take a second example of new clause 18 , which be table by my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) . many people now look at the labour manifesto and say , " well , what it say on energy bill isn ' t what they have do ; what it say on council tax isn ' t what they have do ; and what it say to farmer be certainly not what they have do . " with the Budget come soon , I think that we will shortly see that what Labour say on tax be not what this Government be about to do . and yet the front page of that labour manifesto have a single word on it : " change . " I do not think that most voter realise that what Labour mean be change from the manifesto itself , as oppose to change in term of policy — or for the bad ! indeed , change for the bad . it be bizarre that when serious offence take place , quite often it be the judiciary who get the blame . perhaps I have an unfashionable view in that I think that we have a very high - quality judiciary , but it be easy for people to look at sentence and then quickly leap to criticise the judiciary , say that it be their fault that sentencing be wrong . indeed , there be such case — the shadow Justice Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , have highlight some concern conflict of interest of some within the judiciary — but it be far more common that issue arise because the judiciary be operate within the tramline impose by sentence guideline . I remember a constituency case where someone be kill by dangerous driving . it highlight the fact that while this House have increase the sentencing for such crime , the sentencing guideline set so many obstacle to get a maximum sentence that , in practice , hardly anyone ever reach the tariff that the House have intend . key decision on issue of public policy should not be outsource to quango , mean — as my constituency neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , highlight — the public often do not have any idea who be make the decision . I come back to the labour manifesto . it promise change , but when it come to the sentencing guideline , it will be the same people , apply the same approach ; that be anything but change . if the manifesto be to deliver change , it be right that democratic oversight be impose and that this House and Ministers take more responsibility . I do not think that it say anywhere in the labour manifesto that a Labour Government would cut prison time for serious sexual and violent offender . do my right hon . friend agree that that be the case ? indeed . the new clause under debate highlight a wide principle that be drive much of the public frustration with the democratic process : the sense of people vote and then see decision that they do not feel be on the ballot paper . my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings be right that this be not just an issue with this Government ; the Government in which I serve be guilty of this . too many decision be outsource to quango . there be lesson to be learn from that , as today ' s debate have highlight well . let I turn to two new clause on which the House will divide . new clause 19 apply to something that unite the House : the horror at the murder of a police officer or prison officer . this be particularly pertinent to I , as I have the privilege of represent a constituency that contain a maximum security prison , HMP Whitemoor , where the safety of prison officer be paramount . the new clause be also important because we all benefit from the safeguarding provide by the police — in my case , cambridgeshire police . what message do minister think be be send not just to police and prison officer , but to their family , if they decide to vote against new clause 19 ? it be not enough just to tweet after event to say how sorry they be . the Government have an opportunity to vote to do something , and we will see in the Lobby how they vote . finally , I turn new clause 20 . I do not think that I be alone in be deeply move by the remark of my hon . friend the Member for Maidstone and Malling ( Helen Grant ) . it be most effective when member across the House , regardless of which party they be in , speak from their own deep professional expertise about issue that transcend party politic . anyone hear about Tony ' s case can not help but feel revulsion , horror and shame about the offence commit , and my hon . Friend speak with such passion to highlight it . as a former Minister who have sit where the Minister now sit , let I say that I hope he reflect on the case put forward in new clause 20 . I do not believe that any member want to see loophole exploit — to see people move around the country to evade accountability and the tracking of any future offence . when someone speak with the sort of professional expertise with which my hon . friend the Member for Maidstone and Malling speak , to raise very practical concern , it be important that minister take those concern on board . the concern raise through new clause 20 be share across the House . there be a defective element in this Bill , and member have an opportunity to address it . the expectation be that there will be a vote on new clause 20 . it be not about people ' s word , but how they vote , that will determine the response . I hope that member across the House will respond to new clause 20 , bear in mind the case of Tony , which be highlight to the House , and that they will do the right thing . I speak today to new clause 42 , which be in my name . it would require the Secretary of State to undertake an assessment of the potential merit of remove the cap on sit day in the Crown court and to lay a report before Parliament . I be pleased to bring this issue before the House . our criminal court be crippled under the weight of their caseload . a system once respect for its fairness and efficiency be now struggle to deliver timely justice . one major cause be the limit impose on the number of sit day available to judge . in effect , we be deliberately ration justice . successive government have choose to restrict Crown court sitting day . the previous Conservative Administration cut they drastically up to 2020 , and then reintroduce a cap in 2021 . the current Labour Government , disappointingly , have continue that practice , fix the number of sit day for 2024 - 25 at 108 , 500 . that figure , announce only in December , be thousand below what the court have plan for , and nearly 5 , 000 day short of the 113 , 000 day that his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service advise be need to meet basic operational capacity . even 113 , 000 sitting day would not open every courtroom ; as Sir Brian Leveson ' s review make clear , we would need at least 130 , 000 sit day to bring all courtroom fully into use . anything less be a conscious choice to leave some courtroom dark , some judge idle and thousand of victim wait . meanwhile , the backlog grow . the Crown court caseload have reach historic high , with more than 73 , 000 outstanding case , and it be only grow . in the first quarter of 2025 , 2 , 000 more case be receive than be dispose of . one in four open case have be wait for over a year , and in some instance trial be not be list until 2029 . I see the impact at first hand when I visit my local Kingston upon Thames Crown court . it be one of many court across the London region that suffer as the region see its backlog increase by 25 % . Staff speak of the frustration of empty courtroom , which could be hear trial but be instead shutter by bureaucracy . for my constituent in Esher and Walton , that mean long wait for justice for victim of assault , of burglary and of sexual violence , who be leave to relive their trauma every time that their trial be postpone . witness lose faith , memory fade , and confidence in justice evaporate . cap on Crown court sitting day be not a matter of efficiency , but a false economy . we be pay for court building , for security , for staff and for judge , yet we prevent they from work to full capacity , and the consequence be severe . victim and witness wait month or even year for closure , and defendant on bail remain in limbo , their future in the balance . some guilty defendant plead not guilty in the hope that delay will work in their favour . in the process , public faith in the criminal justice system and politic deteriorate . Justice delay be justice deny . each time a case be adjourn or push back , a victim ' s faith in justice die a little more . community lose confidence that the system will protect they , and that loss of trust be corrosive — it undermine everything from police co - operation to jury participation . it be deeply disappointing that the Government have not attach a money motion to this Bill , mean that Parliament can not directly remove the cap today . however , new clause 42 offer a constructive step forward . it would require the Government to confront the evidence and to assess , transparently and publicly , whether the cap serve justice or undermine it . we can not continue to ignore a crisis that every practitioner , every victim and every judge can see unfold before their eye . remove the cap would not solve every problem in our court , but it would allow they to function at their full capacity ; it would mean few empty room , more trial hear , and fast justice for those who need it most . new clause 42 be a vital amendment that shine a light on the cost of cap justice and would begin the work of restore confidence in our criminal court . justice delay be justice deny , and it be time to stop deny justice to the people we serve . much of this Bill do not apply to my constituent , because in the main it do not apply to Northern Ireland . however , there be a key component of the Bill that be suppose to apply to Northern Ireland , because the extent clause say that part 4 apply — that be the part of the Bill that deal with the very important issue of deport foreign criminal . my question to this House tonight be whether it will , in fact , apply to Northern Ireland . yes , this be say to be the sovereign Parliament of the United Kingdom . it be therefore say that when this Parliament decide something , it be decide ; when it apply a law to citizen of the United Kingdom , that be the end of the story . sadly , though , I know — and this House need to know , and need to act upon that knowledge — that three time , this House have pass Bills that it say apply to the whole United Kingdom , and three time , the court in this land overrule Parliament and disapplied part of those Bills from apply to my constituent and my part of the United Kingdom . those be the Rwanda Act , the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , and the soon - to - be - defunct legacy Act . how can it be that this sovereign Parliament decide that it be legislate on issue affect constituent across this United Kingdom and pass law that it say apply to they all , but it turn out that they do not ? the answer , sadly , be article 2 of the Windsor framework , because article 2 purport to trump this sovereign Parliament . in respect of Northern Ireland , it say that where there be EU law — law not make by this House , but in a foreign jurisdiction ; law that we do not make and can not change — that bestow on citizen or those in Northern Ireland right that be different from those in the rest of the United Kingdom , those right will trump this sovereign Parliament . that be a frightening reality that this House have be run away from ever since it agree to the withdrawal agreement and the protocol that be now call the Windsor framework . it comprise a fundamental assault upon not just the sovereignty of this House , but the legitimate expectation of my constituent that they will be subject to the equal citizenship that be suppose to come from be a part of this United Kingdom . paragraph 1 of article 2 of the Windsor framework state that protection " enshrine in the provision of Union law " — that be European Union law — be " list in Annex 1 " . many of those provision be about right . on top of that , we have the appalling prospect that in 300 area of law — never mind right — this Parliament can not legislate for Northern Ireland , because a foreign Parliament that we do not elect will legislate for Northern Ireland on many matter touch on good , trade and all other sort of thing . right ensconce through article 2 of the protocol can trump the will of this House . article 4 of the withdrawal agreement state that people can " rely directly on the provision … which meet the condition for direct effect under Union law . " that be deliver by section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , which give direct effect to such provision automatically as part of UK domestic law , and state that other UK legislation must be read and apply subject to these EU provision . that be what have happen , and that be how the three piece of legislation to which I have refer have be overrule in respect of people in Northern Ireland , in the part where that legislation offend EU right and legislation . our Supreme Court have state : " the answer to any conflict between the Protocol and any other enactment whenever pass or make be that those other enactment be to be read and have effect subject to the right and obligation which be to be recognise and available in domestic law by virtue of section 7a ( 2 ) . " in other word , if EU law say something different from our national law , then EU law apply . it be in the Dillon case that the Court of Appeal decreed that it would disapply part of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 because it offend right supposedly give to victim by EU law . relevant part of the Dillon judgment be before the Supreme Court presently , which will shed some light on how far the Court of Appeal be correct about the wide application of article 2 of the protocol . we await that judgment with interest . the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be disapplied because it diminish asylum right , as protect by EU law . the Dillon case make it clear that it be the same logic that provision apply by article 2 can trump this House . how do that apply to the deportation of foreign criminal ? if that foreign criminal be an EU national , they already have the EU citizen ’ right directive , which give they enhance protection against deportation . there may be two category of people in the Northern Ireland court . it seem beyond doubt that foreign criminal convict who be EU citizen will have the add protection of the EU ' s citizen ' right directive . if they be not — if they be from somewhere else and they be a foreign criminal — they be also likely to have enhance protection that they would not have in Great Britain . that be because of the importation of the reliance upon the european charter of fundamental freedom . accord to our court , the european charter be there to assist the interpretation of the european convention on human right . article 19 of the charter afford particular protection against deportation . it state that each deportation must be specifically examine — there can not be a provision for collective deportation — and , of course , the thrust of part 4 create a scenario in which , when a foreign criminal be convict in our court , the presumption be towards deportation , and so it should be . it seem to I that we be again enter into territory where although a very laudable , very necessary and very proper provision of this House — that foreign criminal should be deport from wherever they be convict in this United Kingdom — be apparently the will of this House , it be a will that be to be thwart by our subjugation , in Northern Ireland , to the outrage of overriding European Union law and provision . when I ask the Minister about this issue on Second Reading I do not receive an answer , so I will ask the question again . the explanatory document accompany the Bill be totally silent on the impact of article 2 of the Windsor framework on its provision . be there a risk , and be it in fact the expectation , that it will not be possible for the provision relate to the deportation of foreign criminal to apply in Northern Ireland ? be that conceded , be that the expectation , or be there an answer that can explain why that will not be the position ? would it not be outrageous if a foreign criminal in one part of this United Kingdom face deportation as the will of the House , but another foreign criminal convict for the same offence in my part of the United Kingdom be cocoon from deportation ? would that not be an outrage to the sovereignty of this House ? would it not also create a magnet for foreign criminal , who , if they be to indulge in crime , would know that the good place to do so would be the place from which they could not be deport ? this be a serious issue . it be a serious issue for I and for my constituent , but it be also a serious constitutional issue that the House have yet to face up to . it do not just affect article 2 of the Windsor framework ; it affect the very fact that there be 300 area of law — shape much of our economy in Northern Ireland and certainly control our trade law — which be beyond the reach of the sovereignty of the House , and which lie at the whim and the wish of a foreign Parliament . that should offend each one of we , as member of this House , and it should so offend we that we determine to do something about right that wrong . I thank all member who have contribute to the debate . this Bill be a landmark piece of legislation that give we the chance to put an end to the prison capacity crisis and build a well justice system . let I be clear at the outset : this Government believe that prison can work , which be why we be undertake the large prison building programme since the victorian era . many offender must be send to prison , some for a very long time and some for the rest of their life . the Government have already open 2 , 500 place since come to office , and we have make a commitment to build 14 , 000 more . despite what have be say by Opposition Members , by the end of this Parliament , under a Labour Government , there will be more criminal in our prison than ever before . however , we can not only build our way out of this crisis ; we must reform sentencing to ensure that our criminal justice system be sustainable . the change in this Bill will ensure that we never face the situation that the Conservatives leave behind : the very real prospect that the most serious offender would not face prison at all . in a competitive field , the state that the last Government leave our prison in be perhaps the most appalling aspect of the Tory legacy . it be so appalling that , when the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , become aware of the scale of the crisis , he give up and call an election . it be the last shameful act of a vandalising , incompetent Government . this Bill represent the work of a Government pull up their sleeve and get on with the job , however difficult that may be . I really welcome this Sentencing Bill , because I think my constituent want not only criminal be punish for their crime , but the prevention of future crime . it should be about not just punishment — which be rightly owe to a lot of people — but make sure that our community be safe in the future . could the Minister lie out how the intensive supervision court in the Bill will help to do that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; this Bill will not only stabilise the prison system , but go far and tackle reoffende . she mention the intensive supervision court , but there be also our reform to short - term sentence , which will cut reoffende . we know it will do that because of evidence that the last Conservative Government commission . that be why the exact provision on short - term sentencing , which the Tories be all howl with outrage at now , be in the legislation that the last Government put forward — completely hypocritical . my hon . friend be completely right ; this Bill represent a Government who step up to the challenge , rather than put their head in the sand . I want to turn to some of the amendment and the specific point of debate that we have hear today , start with new clause 20 , which stand in the name of the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) . however , I will begin by pay tribute to the hon . member for Maidstone and Malling ( Helen Grant ) , who have put her name to that amendment and with whom I have have the pleasure of speak on numerous occasion this week in the build - up to the debate . the hon . Lady speak incredibly powerfully about her own experience in the family court , and I share that experience . before come to this place , I be a barrister who spend a lot of time on legal aid case , represent local authority , family member or guardian in exactly the type of case that she mention . I share her concern . I also want to pay tribute to the hon . Lady ' s constituent , Paula Hudgell , who have be campaign for a child abuse register with such eloquence and passion for some time . Paula ' s work , life and dedication to Tony and other deserve enormous gratitude from across the House . on the Government ' s behalf , I thank she for all that she and her family have do and continue to do . I welcome the constructive comment from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle , on this issue . I can be clear that Paula have identify a problem in the system , and we be determined to fix it . I welcome the Minister ' s comment on new clause 20 and a possible child protection register . my constituent Gemma Chappell and Rachael Walls have be campaign for strong child protection measure after their great - niece , Maya , be murder by her mother ' s abusive partner . do the Minister agree that measure such as a child protection register and Maya ' s law can only help to protect our child — child like Maya , Tony and other ? and what step will he be take to follow this up ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . the answer be yes . a problem in the system have be identify , and we be determined to fix it . it simply can not be right that some horrific child abuser can have access to child — to live with child or work with child — at the end of their sentence without any system of monitoring or notification after those sentence . the Government can not support the change today because work need to be do to understand the demand that different option would place upon different public service . it would be wrong to legislate now without a fuller — or even basic — understanding of whether we have the capacity to safely deliver the register propose in new clause 20 . there be numerous option before we , and it be right that any new system be tailor , in term of who hold that information and the duty place upon they , to ensure that particular risk be adequately and proportionately manage . the position that the Minister seem to be articulate be literally bizarre . he have say that he fully agree about the problem and with the remedy set out by my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) . the Government have have 14 year in opposition and more than a year in Government , and have introduce the Bill at this time . but the Minister be say that , notwithstanding the fact they have bring forward this Bill after more than a year in office and agree on the problem and the diagnosis , he be still go to vote tonight — and ask his Back Benchers to vote tonight — against fix the issue . we have identify a problem , but it would be wholly irresponsible to legislate when we have not have the opportunity to ensure that public service can complete the task . the hon . member criticise we for not take action on this issue now , but what about the last 14 year ? what about the recommendation of the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse , which report in November 2022 ? the last Government do absolutely nothing on those recommendation . I hear what the Minister have to say . will he bring forward a Government amendment to introduce a child cruelty register when the Bill move to the House of Lords ? we will speak to Home Office colleague and other to look at the possibility of do that , absolutely . the hon . Lady have my word — as do her constituent , who be no doubt watch this debate carefully — that I will work at speed on this issue , but I do not want to make promise that the Government can not keep , so it be vital that we do the work . we understand the burden that it will place on the service that will need to do the work to make sure that this be do , but I want to be clear that this be a problem . we accept that it be a problem , and we be go to take action to solve it . I will continue to have conversation with the hon . Lady as part of that process , and I welcome the offer of cross - party talk . I be speak to colleague in the Department for Education and the Home Office , and I would be eager , if it be appropriate and possible , to speak to Paula herself to ensure that we get this right . but as I say , we want to do that quickly . I have ask official in my Department to look at what can be do within the criminal justice system , which sit within the Ministry of Justice , to track child abuse offender and offence involve child cruelty . I again thank the hon . member for Maidstone and Malling for her work on this issue . I look forward to work with she , and with other hon . member who have show an interest in this issue , to achieve an important change in safeguard that be absolutely necessary . I turn to new clause 12 , table by the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , which seek to allow prisoner hold on remand to access rehabilitative programme , education , therapy and other support before the start of their sentence . she and I have a brief discussion outside the Chamber about this , and it be important to note that remand prisoner can already access such programme where prison run they . the Government accept that there be a lack of such provision in our prison — something that we absolutely have to improve and work on — but we must remember that remand prisoner have not be convict of an offence . they can not be require to undertake any of these service , but it be an issue that I be very much aware of . I will continue to have conversation with she and other colleague about that over the come week and month as we look to improve those service within prison . I congratulate the Minister on his Bill , which can undo the damage do to the prison system over the past 14 year of neglect and mismanagement , but while he be clearly in listen mode , let I say that it be capable of improvement . I table a number of amendment that be design to improve the Bill in Committee last week . I will write to he to remind he what they be , but will he look at those proposal , which be make in good faith , to see whether change can be make in the other place ? as always , I welcome the contribution of the Chair of the Justice Committee . I be very aware of the array of amendment that he and I discuss before Committee stage last week . I have not return to they in the last seven day , but we will no doubt do so in the come week as the Bill progress . I will briefly touch on the issue of probation . a number of amendment have be table by my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and speak to by other hon . member . the Government accept that the Bill place an extra responsibility on the Probation Service . that be why we be invest £ 750 million in probation — a 45 % increase , and the big upgrade to investment in probation for a generation . we be invest £ 8 million to improve technology , so that probation officer can undertake probation work rather than be stifle by the burden of paperwork . we recruit 1 , 000 probation officer in our first year and 1 , 300 this year . however , there be undoubtedly more work to be do , and we will undertake that work in the come week and month . this government have be very clear that work must be at the heart of our prison . ensure that offender work will mean that they can be rehabilitate and , when they leave prison , can enter society with the prospect of employment . clearly , some of the detail of how that work provision be provide and the role of the private sector have to be work out carefully . I be very happy to meet the justice union parliamentary group to discuss that , but I will never apologise for ensure that there be work provision in our prison , because it be absolutely vital . labour be the party of work . we believe in the inherent value of work , and work in our prison play a vital role in rehabilitation . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his response on work in prison . I completely agree that it make a huge difference in enable prisoner to stop their reoffende behaviour . when 80 % of offending be reoffende , cost over £ 18 billion a year , it be clear that we need to enable people to turn their life around . do he agree that our community will be safe when we be able to tackle reoffende rate ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . she raise this important issue in a recent Adjournment debate . we be take step to provide further work provision in our prison , work with the private sector , the third sector and other , but we certainly accept that there be more to do . I will briefly respond to the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) on new clause 24 . he ask I a direct question , and simply put , we do not agree . the Government do not think that this new clause be necessary . our view be very clear on the legal analysis of the propose change . the deportation of foreign national offender will not be prohibit by the provision of the Windsor framework . if he disagree with that analysis , I be very happy to meet he to discuss it and look into it . he be absolutely right that it would be wrong if , in the scenario he paint towards the end of his speech , different part of the country have different provision for the deportation of foreign national offender . I want to give he that reassurance at the Dispatch Box . will the Minister give we an assurance that , if there turn out to be a distinction in that foreign national can not be deport from Northern Ireland because of article 2 of the Windsor framework , he will undertake to override that legislatively so that we do have equality right across the United Kingdom ? as I have say , we do not accept that there be a problem , but if there be , we will look to fix it , because that would not be right . the scenario the hon . and learn Member paint , which we do not accept will happen as a result of this legislation , be not right . amendment 15 and 39 on short sentence be among several table by the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) . they aim to widen the scope of the exemption or to eat away at the 12 - month definition of short sentence . that be the wrong direction , and I will set out why . first , we need to clear up some myth that have be share by the Opposition on this issue . either they be be wilfully ignorant or they simply do not understand the Bill . we be not abolish short sentence , as the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , wrongly state in the House on Monday . he be briefly a corporate solicitor , and I would hope he know well and that he have read the Bill before comment on it . judge will always have discretion to send offender to prison , and short sentence have an important function , especially in certain case of domestic abuse and violence against woman and girl . the Bill make it clear that the presumption do not apply where the offender pose a significant risk of physical and psychological harm to a particular individual , where they breach a court order or in exceptional circumstance . in Committee , the Government go far by strengthen this provision to ensure that breach of all civil court order , such as the domestic violence protection order , be cover . domestic abuse remain the deep scar on our society , and it demand our collective action to eradicate it . please can the Minister outline the measure in the Bill that will help tackle this invidious form of violence and enable improved support for victim during the process ? in that regard , the most important part of the Bill be the domestic abuse identifi . it have be work on , on a cross - party basis , with outside organisation that be campaign for it . it be an innovative and important step to ensure that these case — it be a broadbrush so that different offence can all be cover by the one term — can be track through the criminal justice system and out to safeguard agency to ensure that woman be keep safe from their abuser . I note the interest of the hon . member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) in domestic abuse and other offence . will the Minister confirm for she that the vast majority of offender convict of offence relate to domestic abuse will get out of prison much early as a result of this Bill ? again , as the shadow Minister know , for each offence the judge will have full discretion over the sentence . when I have speak to victim of domestic abuse — I have work with and represent victim of domestic abuse in court — what they fear most be that , when the prison system be on the verge of collapse , some of the most serious offender would never face prison at all . will the Minister give way ? I will finish this point before I give way , because I be deal with the right hon . member ' s amendment . more broadly , we know that suspend sentence and community sentence can be more effective at reduce reoffende . the level of reoffende among those who serve short sentence be staggeringly high . as I have say already , research commission by the last Conservative Government — shadow Justice Ministers continue to cite it — show that short sentence lead to more reoffende , mean that ten of thousand more criminal offence be commit each year . if the opposition vote to drop this provision from the legislation — legislation that the last Conservative Government put forward — they will be vote for more crime blight our community . they know that the measure be common sense because , as I have say , they propose it ; it be a conservative proposal towards the end of the last Parliament , and they be now oppose it for opposition ' s sake . this provision on short - term sentence will begin to break the cycle of reoffende that do such damage to community across the country , so we reject the amendment table by the right hon . member for Tatton . I thank the Minister for allow I to speak now . member on both side of the House be concern about attack on emergency worker , and such offender who be sentence to 12 month or less will now get suspend sentence . can he state on the record that that will not be the case — that those offender will still go to prison , as member on both side of the House want ? will he protect emergency worker or will he let they down ? the judge on any give case , where there have be an awful offence such as that , will have the power under this legislation to send that person to prison . that be absolutely right and that have not change at all . I will turn to new clause 19 , with which I have huge sympathy . the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle give I the opportunity to meet Lenny Scott ' s mother , and I will take he up on that . I be happy to do so and I look forward to it . as he know , the Law Commission be undertake a review of homicide law , and it would be wrong to pre - empt that , although I be sympathetic to the motivation behind the new clause . as he note , that awful offender be convict to life imprisonment with a minimum of 45 year . I understand the mischief that the hon . Member be try to tackle with the new clause , but we will await the Law Commission ' s review of homicide law . the Minister be perfectly capable of legislate on this issue and let the homicide work continue . he say that that would be " wrong " , but it be not wrong — it be just his choice , and it be the wrong choice . as I say , I be not go to pre - empt the Law Commission ' s review of homicide law , but I be sympathetic to the new clause . I look forward to meet the victim ' s family and we will be take step in due course . I will turn to the earn progression model and new clause 36 , which be table by my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) and speak to passionately by my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) . I meet my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley and understand the motivation behind the new clause . there be appetite within Government to go far and to offer positive functionality to the earn progression model , but primary legislation be probably not the appropriate mechanism for deliver a strong system of incentivise rehabilitation in prison . I will briefly explain the current framework as set out in legislation . bad behaviour , such as act of violence or possession of a mobile phone , can mean more time in custody . we be make that tough . to ensure that there be more bite and discipline within our prison , we be double the maximum punishment from 42 day to 84 day per incident by secondary legislation . there will be no automatic release for badly behave offender . I accept that I and Lord Timpson should look at the current incentive policy framework to see how we can far incentivise engagement with self - improvement service , whether in work or education . we expect prisoner to work in prison and , where they have educational need , to engage in class that support reading , literacy , math and vocational skill . that be why we be build partnership with employer and look to increase the amount of time that prisoner work in industry to increase employment skill . as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley in our meeting , I look forward to work with she and other to look at how we can expand and improve that framework to ensure that the earn progression model be as effective as possible . do the Minister accept that he be legislate to let those people out automatically ? he expect Labour member to accept the promise that later , at some point , he might introduce legislation so that some of those people — a small proportion — do not get out , but whatever he say at the Dispatch Box , he be legislate to let they out automatically . that be the consequence of this legislation . I be get increasingly confuse by these intervention , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I outline before , the Government be set out very clear measure to improve discipline in our prison . that be part of the progression model , learn from the Texas model , which have see crime reduce by 33 % , with 16 prison close at the same time . I think we should learn from good example abroad . the Opposition have no idea what their position be any more . I will turn to new clause 14 , table by the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) . the most serious offence be already deal with in the Crown court , even those involve offender age under 18 , and whether an offender ' s identity be report on be at the discretion of the judge . there be always a balance act in the judge ' s consideration between the principle of open justice and the welfare of the child , and it be right that discretion remain with the judge . I also gently say to the hon . member that the scope of the Bill be the adult estate . there be work to be do in the youth justice system ; we will be take step to look at it in due course , and we may come back to this as part of that provision . however , the focus in this Bill be much more on the adult estate . the same point also apply to new clause 1 , again table by the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire . I want to go into some detail on this new clause because it be an important issue . on parenting order , it be right that those responsible for a child ' s care will be involve in their rehabilitation where possible . to that end , court have the power to issue a parenting order where a child have be convict of an offence . parenting order require the parent or guardian to comply with certain requirement for up to 12 month , and non - compliance can lead to breach proceeding in court . while parenting order can be a good option for some child , youth offend team that I have speak to often decide that it be more effective to engage and build relationship with parent on a voluntary basis wherever possible , without resort to a parenting order . many parent will engage readily and take part in specific parenting support activity and programme . on financial order , child be naturally limited in their access to the fund necessary to meet the condition of a financial order . to that end , where the child be under 16 , any financial order must be meet by the parent or guardian . for child age 16 or 17 , the fine may be impose on either the parent or child . whether they be use in each particular case be well determine by the court with professional advice from the youth offend team . it be right that the court , which have access to information on a child ' s individual circumstance , retain the discretion to determine whether such intervention be well place to support their rehabilitation . I undertake to the House today that I will look at this matter as part of our continued review of the youth justice system . we do not think that primary legislation be necessary for a dedicated assessment , which be vague in the form of the new clause . we therefore urge the House to reject this new clause , too . I turn now to drive . there be an array of measure before the House that relate to drive offence , and there be an understandable sense from the House about the need to go far and to strengthen or tighten our use of drive ban for criminal offence . new clause have be put down by the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) and the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Chichester . I also pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) , among other , and the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) , who have raise this issue in the House . it should be note that this legislation offer new provision to order a drive ban for offender who receive a suspended or community sentence even if their offence do not relate to drive . however , I have be persuade in the course of the debate in this House , and in my relatively short period in this role , of the need to look again at drive ban and to do so properly and rigorously . I have organise a meeting with ministerial colleague in the Department for Transport to discuss this issue and to ensure that the point and individual case raise in this and last week ' s debate be consider in the Government ' s road safety strategy , which be be develop . it be right that we undertake proper and further analysis of the current situation and how we can encourage great use of drive ban . I promise that I will ensure that this House be update on the development of that work . I have reach out to road safety charity to ensure that they be consult and keep inform , too . it be right that we investigate this issue carefully , but it be also important to say that the court already have the discretion to implement these drive ban in precisely the way that various new clause seek to do . I will turn now to new clause 31 on exclusion from recall measure , which be speak to by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . a number of offence list in the new clause be already exclude from the fix - term recall provision , while many other carry sentence that would be beyond the scope of the provision . however , we understand the concern raise by the hon . member for Chichester . there be a balance to be strike between recognise the risk pose and ensure a sustainable system . before any recalled offender be release , the Probation Service will undertake a thorough review of release plan and licence condition , ensure that need and risk be manage , with a focus on mitigate risk against known victim . this will take account of any pattern of behaviour . Recall remain an important public protection tool where risk escalate . there be still challenge , look at the 56 day and the provision of education for those who be return on recall . we have have discussion outside the Chamber and we will continue to do so . it be an issue that Lord Timpson and I be aware of , and we will make progress on it in due course . I turn very briefly to new clause 42 , table by the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , regard the awful Crown court delay we experience in this country — another element of the rotten legacy we receive from the conservative party . Brian Leveson have report on this , and the Minister of State for Courts and Legal Services will bring forward the Government ' s response in due course . it be an urgent issue , because all these problem — prison capacity , justice , rehabilitation , reoffende — can be solve only if we have a function court system . sort out and stabilise our prison , reform sentencing and deal with the Crown court backlog will be at the heart of the Government ' s approach through this Parliament . there be one small omission there . can the Minister confirm that legal aid provision , which have be bring up by several member today , will be address by the Government ? yes . legal aid be vital , and the right to legal aid be important . the Government understand that right and will continue to look at it . there be financial constraint , which we be all aware of , but legal aid be very important . we have make certain commitment with regard to employment tribunal , and we will continue to look at that over the come month . amendment 7 would remove clause 20 regard change to be make to the release of certain offender . let we start with the most basic promise of our justice system . when offender be catch who pose a risk to the public , we ensure that there be capacity in our prison for they to serve a custodial sentence . it sound straightforward and a fundamental tenet of the social contract , but that be what be damage and break by the Tory Government . in July last year our prison be essentially full , and the Government disgracefully could not fulfil that most basic promise to the british people . the Conservatives should be ashamed of themselves for the lawless disorder they cause . the change that the Bill make be necessary to stabilise our prison system . there be no alternative . what have hear from Opposition Members , carp from the sideline , be wholly unserious proposal . Reform UK say that we should build paperweight temporary prison . portacabin hold harden criminal in our backyard ? no thank you . let I clear : that would place the public at serious risk of harm . we can not simply rustle up a secure setting to incarcerate dangerous offender . this government be build more prison place than we have see for over 100 year . follow the change to be bring in by this Bill , there will still be more criminal in prison than ever before — 2 , 000 more by 2029 than there be now . on the other hand , Reform have no serious plan to keep our community safe . the Tory position be even more absurd , if that be possible . last week the shadow Minister begin to apologise for the legacy that the Conservatives leave behind in our prison . he say that if he have be Prime Minister or Chancellor it would not have happen . we have five Tory Prime Ministers and seven chancellor in 14 year . I be not sure that give another one a go would have make the difference . meanwhile the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , say , " deport more foreign offender . that will solve it all . " completely unserious . under this government , deportation of foreign national offender be up by 14 % . we have accelerate decision making on deportation , which can now happen when 30 % of the sentence have be serve . that be something that the Tories never do . because of this legislation , we can go even far and deport a foreign offender immediately upon sentencing . these be practical measure from a Labour Government who be clean up the Tory mess . my father be a retired senior prison officer , and I know at first hand the devastation that 14 year of the Tories bring on our prison system . do the Minister agree that it be incumbent on we as a Government to clean up the mess they leave and fix the system urgently through reform ? I thank my hon . friend ' s father for his service . prison officer across the country do a brilliant and important job . my hon . friend be absolutely right ; I have sit through hour of this debate over the last few week , and while it have be important , the crowing from the Tories be gall consider the legacy that they leave behind . this Labour Government face a crisis when we come into power last summer . the Tories have leave our prison system on the brink of collapse , and lawless chaos be on the verge of break out . we take action , with plan to build 14 , 000 prison place — the big prison - build programme since the victorian era — and 2 , 500 place in our first year , compare to just 500 place that be build during 14 year of the Conservative Government . do the Minister recognise , from his write response to I , that every single one of those 2 , 405 prison place be authorise by the previous Conservative Government and that the 14 , 000 prison place he plan to build will not be deliver because the firm that be due to build they have go into administration ? the hon . Member always make that point , and he think it a good point . towards the end of 14 year of conservative government , the conservative suddenly realise they have not do anything to our prison — it be an absolute shamble — and they start to take action . we have actually deliver those place , with 2 , 500 in one year compare with just 500 in 14 year . it be shocking . that be not a good point , and he should not keep raise it . the Government begin an independent sentencing review , lead by a former Conservative Justice Secretary , to ensure that our system be sustainable . the Bill be that vital step to ensure that we can keep that most basic promise to the british people . we will ensure that there be capacity in our prison to keep law and order on the street . we will ensure that our justice system clamp down on reoffende and deliver punishment that work . we will ensure that we will never again face the chaos of Tory misrule . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Mims Davies Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Nick Timothy Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ellie chown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Stephen Morgan Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 170 , Noes 328 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 16 September ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 12 - access to rehabilitation programme and education for individual hold on remand " ( 1 ) where an individual be hold in custodial remand pende sentencing , the probation service must provide access to the same rehabilitative programme that be available to prisoner after sentencing . ( 2 ) where an individual be hold in custodial demand pende trial , the probation service must provide access to the same — ( a ) education ; ( b ) therapy ; and ( c ) any other support that the probation service deem appropriate , that be available to prisoner after sentencing . " — ( Jess Brown - Fuller . ) this new clause would allow prisoner hold on remand to access rehabilitative programme , education , therapy and other support before the start of their sentence . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Richard Foord will Forster Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Z ö e Franklin Claire Young Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Stephen Morgan Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 82 , Noes 314 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 19 - whole life order : murder of a police or prison officer " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Code be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 2 of Schedule 21 ( determination of minimum term in relation to mandatory life sentence for murder etc ) , in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( c ) , after " duty , " , insert " or if the motivation for the murder be connect to the police officer or prison officer ' s current or former duty , " " — ( Dr Mullan . ) this new clause would expand the circumstance in which it be appropriate to apply a whole life order for murder a prison or police officer , to include murder motivate by the victim ' s current or former duty . bring up , question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Reed Nick Timothy Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ellie chown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Nia Griffith Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Stephen Morgan Taiwo Owatemi the Committee divide : Ayes 173 , Noes 323 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 20 - child cruelty offence : notification and offender management requirement " ( 1 ) a person ( ' relevant offender ' ) be subject to the notification requirement of subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) for the period set out in subsection ( 4 ) if the relevant offender be convict of an offence list in subsection ( 6 ) . ( 2 ) a relevant offender must notify to the police within the three day of the time of their conviction or their release from custody , and annually thereafter , provide — ( a ) the relevant offender ' s date of birth ; ( b ) their national insurance number ; ( c ) their name on the notification date and , where use one or more other name on that date , each of those name ; ( d ) their place of residence on the date of notification ; ( e ) the address of any other premise in the United Kingdom at which , at the time the notification be give , they regularly reside or stay ; and ( f ) any information that may be prescribe in regulation by the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) a relevant offender must notify to the police , within the period of three day begin with the event occur , about — ( a ) their use of a name which have not be notify to the police under subsection ( 2 ) ; ( b ) a change to their place or residence ; and ( c ) any other prescribe change of circumstance as define in regulation make under this section . ( 4 ) the date of discharge from notification requirement under this section be the same as those set out in section 88b of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 . ( 5 ) the information require by subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , once receive , must be — ( a ) monitor regularly by the police and probation service ; and ( b ) retain for the purpose of offender management . ( 6 ) the relevant offence be — ( a ) cause or allow the death of a child or vulnerable adult , or allow they to suffer serious harm ( section 5 of the Domestic Violence , Crime and Victims Act 2004 ) ; ( b ) child cruelty , neglect and violence ( section 1 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 ) ; ( c ) infanticide ( section 1 of the Infanticide Act 1938 ) ; ( d ) expose child whereby life be endanger ( section 27 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 ) ; ( e ) an offence under section 4 , 18 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 or 47 of the Offences against the Person Act 1860 , if the victim be under the age of 16 ; ( f ) an offence under any of the follow provision of the Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003 — ( i ) female genital mutilation ( section 1 ) ; ( ii ) assist a girl to mutilate her own genitalia ( section 2 ) ; ( iii ) assist a non - UK person to mutilate overseas a girl ' s genitalia ( section 3 ) ; and ( g ) cruelty to child ( section 1 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 ) . " — ( Dr Mullan . ) this new clause would create notification requirement for people convict of child cruelty , analogous to the Sex Offenders Register . their information and personal detail would be keep on record by the police for the purpose of offender management , with the aim of reduce the risk to child from future offence . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Reed Nick Timothy Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Stephen Morgan the House divide : Ayes 182 , Noes 311 . question accordingly negative . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to put it on the record that there have unfortunately be a blip on today ' s version of the Sentencing Bill ' s amendment paper . while I do put my name to several new clause , I do not put my name to amendment 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 9 , 11 , 12 , 22 , 23 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 or 35 . I thank the hon . member for give I notice of her point of order . I know that House staff would wish to apologise for the error . she have put the fact on the record , so it will now be clear which measure she actually support , and those to which her name be add in error . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it be a pleasure to speak at the Third reading of this landmark legislation . I begin by express my gratitude to all those who have work tirelessly to deliver this important change to our criminal justice system . it be difficult to exaggerate the scale of the crisis that land on the desk of the previous Lord Chancellor — now the Home Secretary — and my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , when they enter Government on 5 July 2024 . prison be at break point , with a very real risk that the most dangerous offender would not face custody at all and that our community would be leave vulnerable . they take urgent , necessary and decisive action to stabilise the system and keep our prison afloat , and then they go far . I pay tribute to David Gauke , the former Conservative Justice Secretary , for his work in lead the independent sentencing review . it be a rigorous and serious piece of work , and while the Government do not accept all the recommendation , it be the basis of many of the provision before the House today . we thank David Gauke for his work , and perhaps look somewhat regretfully back at what a serious Conservative Justice spokesperson look like . I thank right hon . and hon . member for their careful scrutiny of the Bill , and particularly my hon . friend the Members for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) , for South Shields ( Emma Lewell ) , for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) and for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) , and the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) and for Maidstone and Malling ( Helen Grant ) — and a particular shout - out for my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , for her tireless campaign on tool theft . through their personal experience , or the experience of their constituent , hon . member have powerfully raise issue that the Government will continue to look at and address as this legislation progress . the debate we have have on this legislation neatly sum up the dividing line in british politic . the conservative party be in complete denial , with not a single word of apology . it be their mess that this legislation begin to clean up . the Bill go far than simply stabilise the system ; it confront reoffende — the cycle of crime that blight so many of our community — and learn from the Texan earn - progression model to encourage rehabilitation . confront reoffende and improve rehabilitation use to be policy that the Conservatives support , but today they have provide nothing but opposition . meanwhile , Reform ' s Justice spokesperson , the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) , have not bother to attend this debate at all , and inexplicably say over the weekend that she get angry when she see asian and black people on her tv . she should concentrate on come up with workable policy ; we can not build portacabin prison for hardened criminal and keep our community safe . Reform UK be simply not credible . this Government , on the other hand , be get on with the job and make difficult decision to ensure that we can keep our promise to the british people : we will never let our prison system collapse like the last Government do , when even the most serious offender might have avoid prison altogether . this Bill will ensure that our prison system be sustainable , while reduce reoffende and crime , and it will keep our community safe . I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . with the leave of the House , I will finish by explain again that whatever good this Bill may do , the consequence for victim and their family ' sense of justice in this country be grave — the very same victim who want to see prosecution rate improve , who want to see court waiting time reduce , and who want to have a criminal justice system that work well for they in so many way , but who never agree to a swap . victim of crime will welcome the change and improvement that the Labour party say it can deliver , but they should not have to accept that something be take away just because something else be give . I say to Back Benchers that the Government can agree spend settlement and come up with plan , but they can not create the change in legislation that be need for this Bill ; Back Benchers do that . when the Government need mps to change legislation , they can say no , such as the Labour Back Benchers who recently say no to welfare reform . I remind member what this Bill will do . this Bill will mean that more than 80 % of paedophile who be send to prison will get out early . this Bill will mean that more than 60 % of rapist who be send to prison will get out early . it will mean that , in total , more than 6 , 000 serious violent and sexual offender will get out of prison early . I ask Labour Members to imagine that , in a couple of year from now , they have secure all the achievement that they want in relation to the criminal justice system . perhaps a victim of sexual assault come to see they — perhaps somebody who feel that their experience be improve as a result of the change that the Government say they be go to make and who , like many victim of sexual assault , have see their perpetrator send to prison for three year . that victim will come and see Labour Members , and say that the perpetrator be get out of prison after just one year — a third of their sentence . that will be the reality for two third of the people sentence to prison for sexual assault in this country , because the Bill ' s measure will mean that they get out of prison after a year . what will member say to victim ? will they say what they say to I : " it be the Tories , " " I didn ' t know , " or " we have no choice " ? how hollow will those word sound to victim and their family ? whatever this Bill might do , the price that victim will pay be simply too high — much too high . the Government have no right to tell victim and their family that they must accept a trade - off : if they want thing to improve in one direction , they must accept a betrayal in another . I ask Labour Members to reflect again on the figure I have give they . they be the correct figure and they be the fact , no matter what those on the Government Front Bench have mutter as I have be speak . I ask Labour Members to force this Government to make different choice . do not support this betrayal of victim . [ interruption . ] hon . member can mutter . it will come back to haunt every single one of you when victim ask you , " why do you vote for something that let thousand of serious violent and sexual offender out of prison early ? " question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Ellie chown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Stephen Morgan Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright David Reed Nick Timothy the House divide : Ayes 321 , Noes 103 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . privilege I beg to move , that this House — agree with the Committee of Privileges in its First Report of session 2024 – 26 , Matter refer on 14 July 2025 : Omagh Bombing Inquiry ; welcome the acknowledgement in the Petition from the Secretary of the Inquiry that the Inquiry have take advice on the application of article 9 of the Bill of Rights to its proceeding and will be mindful of the privilege of the House ; note the assurance give by the Inquiry that it will handle material provide to it by the House in accordance with its disclosure protocol ; and accordingly order that the unpublished transcript of unreported evidence take by the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee on 11 November 2009 be provide to the Omagh Bombing Inquiry and that the Inquiry shall have power to disclose or publish it if it think fit to do so , after take relevant advice . I welcome the consideration by the Committee of Privileges of this matter and its report . if approve , the motion will enable the unpublished transcript of unreported evidence , take by the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee in November 2009 , to be provide to the Omagh bombing inquiry , and enable the inquiry to publish that evidence if it think fit to do so , subject to relevant advice . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) and the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) for raise this issue in the House in July . I also thank the Chair of the Privileges Committee , the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , for his Committee ' s swift work in consider the matter . I commend in particular his Committee ' s sensitivity in handle this subject , as well as its commitment to facilitate the important work of the Omagh bombing inquiry . in relation to parliamentary privilege , the report highlight important point on the matter of exclusive cognisance and the privilege of this House . be in no doubt , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the Government support the right of this House and will act to defend they . I hope that the House will support this motion today , and I commend it to the House . I call the Chair of the Privileges Committee . I support the motion propose by the Leader of the House and thank he for his kind word about I and other Members involve in this matter . the motion be , of course , about the report draft by the Committee of Privileges . the task the House give the Committee be , in essence , a simple one : to consider whether to release a document to the Omagh bombing inquiry . throughout our work , the Committee have have in mind that the Omagh bombing be one of the great atrocity commit in Northern Ireland during the period know as the trouble and afterwards . in Omagh , on 15 August 1998 — a summer Saturday in the centre of a busy town where people be go about their everyday business — a 500 lb car bomb explode , take the life of 29 people and two unborn child and injure hundred more people , with repercussion for thousand of relative , friend and people across Northern Ireland . in short , we feel from the beginning that there be an overwhelming public interest in our help the Omagh bombing inquiry in any way we could . the inquiry be charge with consider an allegation make by a former senior police officer that police investigator do not have access to intelligence material that might reasonably have enable they to disrupt the activity of dissident republican terrorist before the Omagh bombing . that allegation be make to the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee on 11 November 2009 . I thank the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , who chair that Committee today , and commend the word she have say previously about this matter and the work she have do . I also put on the record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , who move the original motion on behalf of the hon . member for Gower , as the former Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . part of the evidence take by the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee be not report to the House , and so have never be publish . we be ask to make a recommendation on the desirability of release that evidence to the inquiry . there be procedural and , perhaps , constitutional difficulty in that . the term of reference draw up by the then Government enable the inquiry to consider the allegation make by the now retire police officer . the unreported transcript of his evidence be not , however , the property of that or any government ; it belong to the House of Commons . as it be unreporte , it have not be see by current member of the House , other than those who sit on the Committee of Privileges ; nor will this motion make it available to the House of Commons . in short , in propose that we provide the transcript to the inquiry , we be give control of the transcript to that inquiry . this , so far as we be aware , be an unprecedented procedural step . however , I praise the inquiry for its careful , helpful and co - operative approach to the matter of parliamentary privilege raise by this step . I also thank the inquiry for the assurance it have give my Committee about how it will handle the material , and in particular what step it will take to ensure that any national security concern have be fully discuss with the security service before it share the document or rely on it for its own conclusion . those assurance may be find in the appendix to our report . thus , give the assurance receive from the inquiry and in the light of the overwhelming public interest in provide aid to an inquiry into the murder of so many people , I trust that the House will feel confident that my Committee have recommend an appropriate course of action . we have add to our report a recommendation that the Government remind Ministers and official , when draw up term of reference for future similar inquiry or for public body , that more care might be take when it come to intrude on matter that fall within the exclusive cognisance of Parliament . that be not in any way intend to be a partisan point ; the term of reference for this inquiry be draw up by the previous Government . we would wish all government to take more care in future to recognise the right of the House of Commons . I hope that the Minister can provide some reassurance on that point . I also place on record my thank not only to fellow member of the Privileges Committee — I see one or two in their place this evening — but to the Clerks of the Committee and the adviser who help we to navigate what be a challenge constitutional point . to conclude , the Committee believe that the House should do all it can to help the Omagh bombing inquiry in its work . we wish the inquiry well as it continue to seek the truth behind the terrible event of 15 August 1998 . we should always remember that truly dreadful human tragedy lie behind what we be do this evening . I commend the motion to the House . I thank the Leader of the House for bring this motion to the House , and I thank the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , Chair of the Privileges Committee , and the Committee ' s member for the work they have do on this matter . on 9 July , I present a petition from Tim Suter , the secretary of the Omagh bombing inquiry , ask the House to allow the inquiry to access unreported evidence from the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . as current Chair of the Committee , I know how important it be that the inquiry should be able to do its work . I be happy to present the petition as the first step in get the inquiry the information it need . it be an important principle that the House have control of parliamentary paper . committee can choose to report those paper to the House , but if they do not do so , those paper be only accessible if the House so order . it be also important that people who give evidence to a Committee know that if their evidence be not report , it will not be release without proper consideration of the issue . as it be unreported evidence , my Committee — the current Committee — do not have access to the evidence . there be no way for the House to assess whether the information could be publish in whole or redact , or what the inquiry might need . the Privileges Committee be ask to look at this matter and the paper be refer to it . I be grateful to the Committee for its work . as the Committee make clear , it be possible that some of the information in the transcript may need to be restrict . it invite the House to take the unusual step of handing over material that it have not see . I think that be entirely appropriate . the inquiry know what information be useful to it . the Committee have receive write confirmation that the evidence release to it will be treat accord to its disclosure protocol to check material relevant to national security and that there will be a security check . in these circumstance , I support the motion , since I be confident that careful consideration have be give to the issue involve . I thank everyone involve in produce the report and the Leader of the House for bring it to the House for we to consider . I recall very well where I be on that fateful day when the news come through . it have always be very important to I , and indeed to everyone in this House , to ensure that justice be do . I be bear in Omagh — I remember little about it , because I be only there as a wee baby — so I always want to see justice do for all those who lose love one . I therefore warmly welcome the report , which be a positive step forward . my party leader — my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) — my party and I have encourage full co - operation , which be what we want to see . I thank the Chair of the Committee for all the swift conclusion bring forward . it would have be untenable for the House of Commons to withhold information that might aid the inquiry ' s understanding and assist the family in their quest for truth and justice . I be grateful to all hon . member for their contribution to this short debate . in particular , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , who be an excellent Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , and the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , the Chair of the Committee of Privileges , who speak with the typical sensitivity and thoughtfulness that we have come to expect from he . I also thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for welcome the action that we be about to take . as ever , he bring personal reflection and experience to our debate , and I thank he for it . I will of course draw Departments ' attention to the word of the Chair of the Committee of Privileges , and indeed those of the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . as they both will have see , my right hon . friend the Northern Ireland Secretary be with we on the Front Bench and will have hear those word directly . question put and agree to . business without Debate with the leave of the House , we will take motion 5 and 6 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , private International Law that the draft Private International Law ( implementation of Agreements ) Act 2020 ( extension of Operative Period ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 2 September , be approve . Sports Grounds and Sporting event that the draft Football Governance Act 2025 ( Specified Competitions ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 October , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . offshore Wind Supply chain : Tyneside Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) I thank Mr Speaker for grant the debate . I do not underestimate the challenge that the Minister and her colleague face , because the transition be a monumental task . tonight I will set out the case for further Government support be need for the offshore wind sector in place such as Tyneside . Smulders Projects UK , which I have work with for many year , be a critical employer in the sector and in my constituency . smulder be not only a key global player but the UK ' s lead provider of offshore wind substation and foundation structure , include monopile , transitional piece and jacket . those form the essential building block of the critical infrastructure require for UK renewable energy security . smulder , base in Wallsend , be one of many business along the Tyne that be marker of the Tyne ' s proud and endure legacy . throughout history , the Tyne have step up when the country have need it most . [ interruption . ] today it stand ready to aid the transition to renewable . do excuse I , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be very proud of the Tyne . will the hon . Lady give way ? I certainly will . I call Jim Shannon on the offshore wind supply chain in Tyneside . I speak to the hon . Lady before the debate and explain the connection between her constituency and mine , and why it be so important . I also want to encourage the hon . Lady , who have be a great friend of mine in the House in all the time I have be here . we share many thing , include an interest in this subject matter , but we also share our faith . it be important that we have that relationship across the Chamber . do she not agree that while Tyneside be a major hub for offshore wind supply , we must continue to invest in new and well methodology in renewable energy , such as harness tidal energy through Strangford lough and Newcastle University ' s wave energy device , which contribute to the area ' s role in marine energy innovation ? these be thing that we can do well together . the hon . Gentleman have long be a friend of mine , and he not only speak well of his own constituency and Northern Ireland , but be very supportive of all of we across the Irish sea . he be right in what he say , and I think we be both justly proud of what be be achieve by the university and industry in our area . that be why we be stand here tonight and make our plea to the Government . this week , the Government set the budget for allocation round 7 to support new offshore wind project . RenewableUK , along with other industry voice , have express concern that the amount allocate be likely to procure only a quarter of the 20 GW capacity available in this year ' s tender . this be a very recent announcement , so I would be grateful if the Minister could set out how the budget align with the Government ' s plan to maximise the number of green job in Britain . against the backdrop of AR7 , there be real concern regard the alarming drift towards UK offshore wind turbine foundation structure be procure from low - cost region such as the middle east , the Asia - Pacific region — APAC — and China . recent example of this include EDF ' s Neart na Gaoithe offshore wind farm , Ocean Winds ' Moray West OWF and the Inch Cape OWF . for these UK project , all the foundation structure be import from low - cost fabrication yard locate in the middle east , Indonesia and China . I understand the approach take by the previous Government and developer to drive down and minimise capital expenditure , but that approach adversely impact the operation of our own UK company , which be unable to compete on cost alone . recent mechanism and initiative such as the clean industry bonus include in AR7 be of course welcome , but there be a fear that these alone will not prevent the further drift of foundation fabrication away from the UK to these low - cost region . with reference to the AR7 clean industry bonus allocation framework , there be two cib criterion that developer could meet . criterion 1 refer to " investment in short supply chain " , where an investment may be make in a deprived area in the UK . give the socioeconomic challenge that Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend face , option 1 be a welcome incentive , and I look forward to the outcome of the AR7 project , when announce . criterion 2 refer to " investment in more sustainable mean of production " , where investment may be make in one or more manufacturing facility or installation firm that have either commit to , or set their science - base target by , the application date anywhere in the world . there be real concern that this approach open the door to unfair competition from low - cost region such as China , APAC and the middle east , specifically for the supply of critical offshore wind infrastructure such as wind turbine generator foundation , jacket , transition piece and monopile . therefore , outside the AR7 framework , and give the criticality of this infrastructure to our energy security , will the Minister set out what additional measure or guarantee can be put in place to ensure that a significant portion of offshore wind infrastructure be secure and fabricate by UK company such as Smulders ? it be essential that business in the UK continue to invest , innovate and introduce new technology and process to optimise efficiency as well as competitiveness , as my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say . however , it be become increasingly difficult for UK company to compete equally with overseas yard on such an uneven playing field . on the Tyne , not only be supply chain hold back by unfair competition ; they be also constrain by physical barrier . the power cable over the Tyne be an obstacle to business secure work for large renewable energy structure , which risk possible net gross value add benefit of up to £ 1 . 2 billion . the height restriction in place be 87 metre . however , wind turbine jacket for AR7 and future round will be in excess of 100 to 120 metre high . it mean that Smulders can not bid for certain contract despite have world - class facility and the sharp mind ready to go . it have be propose that the removal of the cable will be complete in 2032 . I have campaign since 2017 for a solution to this issue — 2032 be too late . the job of the future have become the job of today , and this be an international race . yard in the middle east will not wait for 2032 , APAC will not wait , and neither will China . in July , I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to engage with I and Ofgem to try to accelerate the work . I look forward to meet the Energy Minister next month to discuss it far . I would be grateful if the Minister reaffirm the Department ' s support for bring forward this work and reaffirm that the Government will press the National Grid for an early completion date . I turn to the issue of ensure a more consistent revenue stream for our domestic fabricator . we have see disruption , delay and postponement in the promise pipeline of offshore wind project because of failure during early leasing and allocation round . project from AR5 and ar6 be all now complete , or very near to completion . unfortunately , however , insufficient project be approve and insufficient contract be award to the UK to ensure a continuous pipeline of work for company such as Smulders . the result of that failure be a very real two - year chasm in UK offshore wind manufacturing . from the start of 2026 , effectively , zero UK offshore wind project will be in fabrication . the next tranche of project will be dependent on the successful outcome of AR7 and the clean industry bonus incentive offer to developer . the result from AR7 , however , will not be know until quarter 1 in 2026 , thus create a two - year gap . this be the effective period from project approval and contract award , to finalise engineering and procure material before industry can start cut steel . optimistically , that could begin in quarter 3 or quarter 4 of 2027 , with offshore infrastructure in place again two year after that in the final quarter of 2029 . however , the first power generation from AR7 project before August 2029 be a stretched target . smulder have already invest over £ 100 million at its Wallsend facility base on previous Government assurance of continued UK offshore wind fabrication project . what level of operational or other support be the Government willing to provide to establish tier - 1 fabricator such as Smulders to secure the job of over 600 well - pay worker during this two - year gap in fabrication ? I be delighted to hear the Secretary of State ' s commitment during party conference to a clean energy job plan , which will see the sector grow from 430 , 000 job today to 830 , 000 by 2030 . that will include ten of thousand of new role for engineer , welder , electrician and construction worker . I support the Government ' s ambition for further growth . the skill for these job be be develop and nurture by company in Tyneside , as well as by the Energy Academy in my constituency , which be set to expand follow the combine authority ' s commitment to invest £ 8 . 5 million in the college . well - pay , secure job can be create through the awarding of contract to exist UK tier - 1 fabricator . for UK company , the outcome and result from allocation round 7 be critical to their continue operation in this country . more crucially , the outcome of the foundation contract award will ultimately determine the long - term success or failure of our business — and , I believe , the future of the UK offshore wind fabrication sector . only foundation contract award domestically can provide the necessary volume of serial , repeat fabrication need to achieve the Government ' s clean job target , and secure the necessary skill require for a high - pay clean energy sector . I repeat my call on the Government to take further step to ensure that a substantial allocation of AR7 foundation fabrication be award here in the UK . as I say , at its peak , Smulders support over 600 high - skilled and well - pay local job in Tyneside and across the region , and its primary concern be to secure those job in the long term . it be in the national interest for UK business to succeed with those project , as they be create highly skilled and dependable job that will not only strengthen the offshore wind industry but support training in skill require for associate industry such as defence , nuclear and the wide engineering sector , as well as support other major british infrastructure initiative . the drift overseas of such work threaten domestic job , future economic investment and the UK ' s long - term security . this be a critical juncture for the UK offshore wind sector , so will the Minister meet I , representative from Smulders and the wide Tyneside supply chain to discuss urgently the concern that I have set out about the area in which industry need further support , and so that we can present our aspiration for the clean energy future ? although the transition present challenge from all angle , it present even more opportunity . the Tyne be open for business , and it stand ready to play a defining role . I call the Minister . I believe that this be her first time at the Dispatch Box for an Adjournment debate . it certainly be ! I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) on secure a debate on this important issue , and on her passion , authenticity and representation of her area . I do not think that any of we be in doubt of those quality tonight . I know that this matter be close to the heart of many member and their constituent , particularly in our industrial heartland . this Government be on a mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower , deliver clean power by 2030 and accelerate to net zero . offshore wind be the beat heart of that mission . the sector be already provide secure clean energy , as well as thousand of skilled job , bring growth and opportunity to community such as those in Tyneside . the sector be also an international success story . at the end of June , the UK be generate 16 . 7 GW from offshore wind . that be the high amount in Europe , and worldwide we be second only to China — a country with a population roughly 20 time the size of ours . we have consent 4 . 2 GW since we come into office , and we have 75 GW of capacity in the pipeline , which equate to a 450 % increase on our current , world - lead amount . we also have the second most instal float offshore wind capacity — after Norway — and , at over 25 GW , the large pipeline of float offshore wind project in the world . and yet we be confident that the good be yet to come . from north - east England to Scotland and the Celtic sea , incredible thing be happen across the country in this industry . the Government be determined to do everything we can to help our offshore wind sector to thrive and to deliver for the british people . the contract for difference scheme be vital to our mission to make the UK a clean energy superpower . allocation round 7 to 9 be crucial for the delivery of our goal of clean power by 2030 and for protect household from volatile fossil fuel price . on Monday , we confirm that a total budget of £ 900 million be available for fixed - bottom offshore wind in allocation round 7 — an increase on the previous allocation round ' s initial budget when compare on a like - for - like basis . that be the initial budget for fixed - bottom offshore wind , but we have the ability to view unsuccessful bid and adjust the budget later if we deem that do so be good value for consumer . we have fundamentally reform the offshore wind system to get well value for money . under the old system , the Government set a budget and have no further control over quantity and price . we recognise the importance of robust domestic supply chain both in support the continue growth of this industry and in ensure that british worker and community benefit from the job that be create . the Government have therefore set out a package of support , worth up to £ 1 billion , for offshore wind supply chain . this include £ 300 million from Great British Energy to provide upfront public investment , £ 400 million from the Crown Estate to support new infrastructure , include port , manufacturing , and research and testing facility , and £ 300 million from the offshore wind industry to deliver new investment into supply chain such as advanced turbine technology and foundation . I welcome the Minister to her place and wish she every success and happiness in her role . I will try not to be too hard with my question . she refer for the contract for difference scheme . I know it be something that Northern Ireland have to do itself , but at this early stage will she please engage with the relevant Minister in the Assembly , and perhaps help we to move our scheme forward ? I will ensure that the Minister for Energy be aware of his issue and feed they in . I be sure he will — I believe he be a friend of the hon . gentleman . this be a genuinely transformative package of investment , and by provide that support , as well as clarity in our plan , we be give investor and developer the confidence to invest in the future . it be expect that the £ 1 billion package of investment will directly and indirectly mobilise billion more , as well as support thousand of job in our industrial heartland . we have also introduce a clean industry bonus to reward project that invest in coastal community , industrial heartland and clean supply chain . as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend say , criterion 2 of the clean industry bonus reward investment in clean supply chain , measure by sign - up to the science - base target initiative for decarbonisation . it so happen that the overwhelming majority of qualifying supplier be in the UK or the European Union — very few supplier outside the region qualify under criterion 2 . it be great to see the clean industry bonus auction smash bid expectation early this year , and we look forward to see the investment come in after auction round 7 , show that when the Government lead with ambition , industry be ready to match it . we also know that we will need even more skilled worker to achieve our mission in the year ahead , and with our analysis suggest that the offshore wind sector alone could support up to 100 , 000 job by 2030 , we be determined to ensure that our industrial community benefit . that be why we have set up the Office for Clean Energy Jobs , which will provide training and support to the workforce in the clean energy and net zero sector . our priority be create good job in Britain ' s industrial heartland , include a just transition for the industry base in the North sea . on 19 October , we publish our clean energy job plan , which set out how the Government will work in partnership with industry and trade union to help worker in all part of the country to benefit from these opportunity , support our exist workforce to find new opportunity , train up the next generation , and support our young people to get good , unionised job . let I turn to our support for the north - east . Tyneside be ideally place to service the offshore energy sector , include one of the world ' s large offshore wind market . the Tyne have the capacity to become a major hub for the installation and maintenance of offshore wind farm , and to service the supply chain that will grow from it . in 2023 , the UK Infrastructure Bank invest £ 50 million in the Port of Tyne as part of a debt refinance package of up to £ 100 million . that finance be provide to regenerate and redevelop land , build a base for a grow number of clean energy industry in the area , include offshore wind , advanced manufacturing and other renewable activity . in September , the Port of Tyne announce that it be invest £ 150 million to transform 23 acre into the Tyne clean energy park , add 400 metre of deep - water quayside to support offshore renewable , clean energy and advanced manufacturing . accord to the Port of Tyne , the redevelopment could create up to 12 , 000 job and deliver £ 5 . 6 billion to the economy . I look forward to work with my hon . friend to help we realise that potential . on the transmission cable over the River Tyne , I confirm that the Government be open to discuss the progress of the proposal to underground the cable with National Grid . the decision for approve the project lie with Ofgem as the independent regulator , which must demonstrate that there be benefit to consumer when approve network project . to sum up , our offshore wind sector be a british success story of which we should all be proud . thank to the perfect condition provide by the North sea , as well as our legendary offshore workforce and supply chain , we be perfectly place to keep lead the way . but this Government be not content with simply win the race for clean power ; we want to build the industry of the future here in Britain and , in so do , we want to create a new generation of good , skilled job for the community we depend on and to ensure that the economic benefit of the clean power transition be feel in Tyneside and in every corner of our country . I know that the Minister for Energy have a fantastic visit to the Smulders UK yard in Wallsend in the summer , and he will be happy to meet my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend . question put and agree to . House adjourn .