Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — fly - tipping what step he be take to help tackle fly - tipping . what step he be take to tackle fly - tipping . what step he be take to tackle fly - tipping . what step he be take to tackle fly - tipping . what step he be take to tackle fly - tipping . happy spring equinox and happy World Sparrow Day to you , Mr Speaker , and to everyone in the House . fly - tipping blight community , harm the environment and place huge cost on taxpayer and business . council deal with over 1 million incident in 2023 - 24 , some 6 % more than in the previous year . this government will crack down on fly - tipping by establish clean - up squad comprise of those very individual who dump rubbish in our community . we be also tackle litter by introduce a ban on single - use vape from 1 June this year and a deposit return scheme for drink container . Rochdale council have remove 6 , 500 fly - tip this past year alone , the equivalent of 50 tonne of illegally dump waste every month , at a cost of £ 400 , 000 to local taxpayer . but my council tell I that there be a real failure in the court issue consistent and tough enough fine . do the Minister agree with I that it be time to crack down hard on fly - tipper , put much tight regulation on waste carrier and treat the fly - tipper like the criminal they be , by crush their car and put point on their licence ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend — [ interruption . ] I hear enthusiasm for his comment from both side of the House . Rochdale council have an exemplary record on fly - tipping , with 26 fix - penalty notice and 12 prosecution , which be admirable . last week , the Environment Agency work with the north - west regional organised crime unit to arrest two man in Manchester for fraud and money laundering , follow an extensive investigation into packaging export note use by law - abide firm to export waste that be unlawfully sell for £ 747 , 000 . our message to the waste criminal be clear : we be seek power in the Crime and Policing Bill , and we be go to track they down . fly - tipping be a scourge on local community and a drain on council resource , be they rural council , like Central Bedfordshire , or town council , like Luton , in my constituency . Most recent figure show that there be over 10 , 000 fly - tipping incident in Luton alone in 2023 - 24 , but do the Minister agree that we need a co - ordinate approach between the Department , local authority and the police to deliver a holistic strategy to tackle fly - tipping ? it be clear that my hon . friend be right . Luton have a particular problem with fly - tipping , but the council have be do good work , with 263 fix - penalty notice and 32 prosecution . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs chair the national fly - tip prevention group , and we work with a wide range of interested party , include council , the Environment Agency , the National Farmers Union and the National Police Chiefs ' Council to disseminate good practice , and I urge Luton to join we in that endeavour . although City of Wolverhampton council be to be congratulate on introduce a range of initiative to tackle fly - tipping , include deploy drone , raise the fine for fly - tipping to £ 1 , 000 and reward those who identify culprit with gift card , fly - tipping in my constituency of Wolverhampton West cost Wolverhampton taxpayer around £ 300 , 000 a year and involve some 2 , 714 incident during 2023 - 24 . do the Minister agree that we need strong disincentive to discourage those who fly - tip , so that that £ 300 , 000 can be redistribute to where it be really need ? I be interested to hear about the work my hon . friend ' s council be do with drone . we use CCTV , but there could be lesson for other council . in our manifesto , we commit to force fly - tipper to clean up their mess . we be seek power to issue statutory fly - tip enforcement guidance so we have a consistent and effective approach , but it be clear that the waste carrier , broker and dealer , and the exemption permit regime , be not fit for purpose . I have ask my official to look at everything we can do to strengthen both of those . fly - tipping be a blight on our community , but in Stoke - on - Trent , our labour - lead council have work tirelessly to turn thing around . under the Conservatives , resident be wait for over a month for waste to be remove , but under the leadership of Jane Ashworth and Amjid Wazir , that response time be now under one week . however , council can not tackle the issue alone , so will the Minister outline what more the Government can do to support local council to clamp down on fly - tipping , get tough on those who blight our street , and create clean , green community for all ? it be interesting what a difference a change in council leadership make . I commend Councillor Ashworth and Councillor Wazir on their excellent work . this government will introduce mandatory digital waste tracking from April 2026 , and I will update the House on progress in May 2025 . if people want their street to be clean up , the answer be clear : vote labour . fly - tipping be a real concern in my constituency of Woking , but I understand that the previous Government introduce new power that enable Woking borough council and other local authority to strengthen their action against people who fly - tip . what impact have those measure have ? we have not assess the impact , but I can tell the hon . Gentleman the late statistic for his own council . there be more than 1 , 100 fly - tipping incident , but just three fix - penalty notice and no prosecution . local councillor be clearly make choice . we know that the late statistic for fly - tipping show a rise of 6 % , so it be clear that under the previous Government , this environmental crime be allow to spiral out of control . I encourage all council — of whatever colour — to make good use of their enforcement power . alas , the last Government do not take up my suggestion that the offender be garrotte with their own intestine . the first problem , however , be to catch they . be there any way that local authority can be encourage to take advantage of the collapse in price and improvement in quality of internet - connect camera ? I think there would be some human right implication with the garrotting option , but I share the right hon . Gentleman ' s passionate hatred for these environmental criminal . he be a representative of the beautiful New Forest , where I have spend many happy holiday , and it really upset I to see fly - tipping on ancient woodland run by the Forestry Commission . these be precious and irreplaceable area . we have not look at that part of his suggestion , but I be very happy to join force with he and make it a cross - party mission that we sort the mess out once and for all . conservative - run East Sussex county council have introduce a booking system for the local tip in Eastbourne that will make it even more difficult for many people to get rid of their waste . many local campaigner be concerned that it will result in increase fly - tipping , specifically in area such as Upperton in my constituency , and we have already see it in Hartfield Square and Upperton Gardens . how might the Minister be able to influence East Sussex county council to u - turn on its unpopular decision and to keep our community clean and free from fly - tipping ? all council have be give an uplift under this Labour Government , so they have more money to be able to deal with the priority of their local community , and I encourage they to think about where that money be spend . there be also a really important equality issue here : if people do not have access to the internet in East Sussex , due to blackspot , they might not be able to digitally book in , so I would look at digital exclusion . the people who be least able to afford the internet should not be force into deal with unscrupulous rogue . we know that fly - tipping be an expensive and dangerous nuisance . local authority such as Conservative - lead Walsall council be take a really proactive and determined approach to tackle it , but with bin strike on our doorstep under the neighbour labour - lead Birmingham city council , we fear more fly - tipping , particularly in the community that border Birmingham . alarmingly , we be hear of rat the size of cat in Britain ' s second city , and these squeaky blinder be definitely not welcome in Aldridge - Brownhills . what specific support can the Minister provide to neighbouring authority in these specific circumstance , and what can she do to bring the bin strike to an end ? obviously Birmingham city council ' s bin situation be a matter for the council , but , as a neighbouring MP in Coventry , we have not see any of the fly - tipping that the right hon . Lady talk about see in Walsall . both side need to get round the table and sort this out for the benefit of the people of Birmingham . Sewage Discharge Reduction : Water Company Investment what recent discussion he have have with Ofwat on encourage water company to increase investment in sewage discharge reduction measure . my official and I have regular conversation with Ofwat and other regulator . as the right hon . Gentleman will be aware , last year water company discharge record level of sewage into our waterway , which be why the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 give the regulator tough new power , include the ability to ban the payment of unfair bonus to pollute water boss . the Government have also secure a record £ 104 billion that will include improvement to more than 3 , 000 storm overflow and significantly reduce sewage spill over the next five year . I wish you a happy World Sparrow Day , Madam Deputy Speaker . in Bramley in my constituency in 2023 , sewage be spill into the local river for 59 hour . in Godalming , the figure be 83 hour ; in Chiddingfold , it be 410 hour ; and in Cranleigh , it be 691 hour . that be the equivalent of nearly two hour every single day — it be totally unacceptable . as a result , last year , after pressure from I and other , Thames Water agree to invest £ 400 million by the end of next year . will the Secretary of State meet I and the chief executive of Thames Water to see whether that money be actually be spend ? the situation that the right hon . Gentleman describe be absolutely outrageous , and member across the House will recognise similar situation in their own area . we need to completely reset the water sector so that these situation can not continue , which be why Sir Jon Cunliffe be lead a water commission . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman and other member be take the opportunity to feed their experience and those of their constituent into his call for evidence , and I would be happy to arrange for the right hon . Gentleman to meet an appropriate Minister to discuss his concern . I get so many people in North West Leicestershire tell I about the toxic sewage pour into their waterway , such as in the brook near Donington le Heath . will the Secretary of State assure I that , unlike the previous Government , when he say that he will hold the water boss to account , he mean it ? absolutely . that be why we have pass — and my hon . friend will have vote for — the Water ( Special Measures ) Act , which give the regulator the power they need to hold those water boss to account so that instead of pay themselves multimillion - pound bonus they do not deserve , that money be spend where it should be spend : on fix our break sewage system , so that we can cut the sewage flow that be pollute our river up and down the country . agricultural and Business Property Reliefs what estimate he have make of the number of farmer affect by change to agricultural and business property relief . around 500 claim each year will be impact . our reform will mean that farmer will pay a reduce inheritance tax rate of 20 % , rather than the standard 40 % , and payment can be spread over 10 year interest free . farm - own couple can pass on up to £ 3 million without pay inheritance tax . in our view , this be a fair and balanced approach , and should be see against the backdrop of the Government commit £ 5 billion for farming over two year — the large budget direct at sustainable food production and nature ' s recovery in our country ' s history . I be start to feel like DEFRA Ministers be purposefully ignore I and Devon ' s farming community . I have give the Secretary of State since early December to answer my letter and my invitation to meet with Devon ' s farming community , in order to explain how change to agricultural property relief and business property relief be go to affect they . at the last defra question , I call out the Secretary of State for not reply to any of my request . the Minister for food , farming and fishery reply from the Dispatch Box that " I would love to meet farmer in Devon , so I be happy to add he to the list for my grand tour across the country to reassure people that there be a strong plan to ensure that farmer have a viable future " . — [ Official Report , 6 February 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 909 . ] so far , those platitude have go unrealised . with less than a month until these change take effect , Devon ' s farmer be still in the dark about how the change be go to affect they . if this be how minister treat fellow mps , be it any wonder that farmer up and down the country feel completely abandon by this Labour Government ? I hear the hon . Gentleman ' s complaint , but I have be to Devon in my role before , and I will come to Devon again . I be always happy to meet farmer . I have spend quite a lot of time at this Dispatch Box answer question from Conservative Members , so perhaps few question will mean more time to go out and meet farmer . I call the shadow Minister . back in November , the farming Minister unbelievably say from the Government Dispatch Box that it be strike how many people be come up to he at farming event and say , " you ' re right to be make these change to apr and BPR . " conservative Members have be out and about all over the country ; indeed , I be in Staffordshire , Warwickshire and Shropshire yesterday , and I have not find one farmer who think that he be right . in fact , the level of anger and sheer disbelief among our farming community be immense as this Government ' s attack on our farming cash flow continue through the dramatic reduction in delinked payment , the sudden stop of the sustainable farming incentive and the rise in employer ' s national insurance contribution — I could go on . business confidence be at an all - time low , so can the Minister provide the name of just one farmer he have speak to who think he and his Government be right to be pursue these change ? I suggest that the shadow Minister go out and speak to a few more people , because I be stop in a local village just this weekend and encourage — [ interruption . ] I be not go to name name , but he should check with some of his conservative candidate in election . they say , " keep on go , you be do the right thing . " the situation be not as the shadow Minister describe . he might do well to look at the figure for project farm business income for this year , which show that in many sector , those business income be do rather well . that probably explain why people be not as exercise about it as he . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . be the Minister aware that some of the farmer who will be worst hit by the APR change be those who farm in severely disadvantaged area in the upland around our country , where typically property value be high and income be extremely low ? when the change be make just last week with people be exclude from the sustainable farming incentive , 6 , 100 people have enter the SFI in this session , and only 40 of they be hill farmer . be he also aware that his own Department ' s figure show that at the end of the transition , the average hill farm income will be 55 % of the national minimum wage ? do he not understand that his change be bring harm to the poor farmer in the prettiest place , such as mine ? will he undertake to look at the liberal Democrat proposal to bring in an uplands reward so that we do not plunge into poverty those people who care for our precious landscape ? the hon . Gentleman always speak with passion about his constituent , and I absolutely understand those concern . he be right to say that the scheme we inherit do not reward those area as well as they should . that be why in our announcement a few week ago , we increase the high level stewardship payment by £ 30 million , which will be of particular advantage to people in his area . I agree with he , and the scheme we inherit be not good enough . that be why we be revise they . flood Defences : Hartlepool what step his Department be take to improve flood defence in Hartlepool . after 14 year , the Conservatives leave our flood defence asset in the bad condition on record . that be why this Government be invest a record £ 2 . 65 billion over two year to improve flood resilience . we will build , maintain and repair flood defence to well protect 52 , 000 property by March 2026 . the flood defence in and around Greatham creek in my constituency of Hartlepool date back to the 19th century and be come to the end of their usable life . I be campaign to secure the funding we need to realise the Environment Agency ' s ambitious multimillion - pound plan to upgrade these defence and create a new habitat that extend biodiversity in that area . will the Minister commit to deliver that funding for Hartlepool ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue and for his recent letter . he be right to be angry about the poor state of his flood defence , and I be sure his constituent value he as a local champion , raise that in the Chamber . to rebuild after conservative failure , we have have to urgently move £ 36 million into maintenance funding this year . as I have mention , the project to receive funding in the next financial year be be agree and will be announce shortly . under the previous Government there be , prior to 2019 , a strategy from Westminster to address flooding and coastal erosion across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . all the region be able to benefit from that , include my constituency of Strangford , where coastal erosion be a massive thing , take away some of the major road and thoroughfare . will the Minister consider renew that strategy and start it again , look at all of the United Kingdom as one job lot ? that would thereby help we all to get the benefit in address coastal erosion and the flooding that the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) refer to . I thank the hon . member for raise his concern about coastal erosion , and he be right . it be a huge problem , and with climate change it be only set to get bad . I completely recognise how it be impact coastal community . his suggestion to bring together the different devolve government to discuss this issue be really interesting , so let I take that away . rise — the question have to relate to Hartlepool ' s flood defence . I call the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . the people of Chesterfield have great empathy with the people of Hartlepool , as we face exactly the same issue . a new report by Public First show that each year of flood event cause decade - long downward pressure on the economy worth up to £ 6 billion . I be grateful that the Minister will shortly visit we in Chesterfield to see flood project and vulnerability , but do she agree that there be acute need for project like the one we require on the River Hipper , and the one require in Hartlepool ? it endanger the Government ' s growth mission if we be not able to get these project go . I think we all have empathy with Hartlepool , so I encourage more people to ask question on this issue . I look forward to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency to find out more about the project he mention . he be quite right to say — this be an argument that I hope we will all pursue ahead of the spring statement — that tackle flooding be a good , value - for - money investment , because it help to protect our economy and ensure that we can have growth . I call Wera Hobhouse , who I know be now anxious . like people in Hartlepool , we in Bath recognise that the Conservative Government leave our flood defence in a poor state , and we welcome the extra funding that the Bath flood defence scheme have receive . however , we worry that it have come too late in a lot of case . be there a timeline for when my Bath constituent will actually see improvement ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this issue . as I say , we be deliver a record £ 2 . 65 billon investment in building , maintain and upgrade flood defence , and that money will be spend over the next two year . we will shortly announce some of the project that be go ahead in the next financial year , and next year we will announce even more . there will be an announcement this year for the next financial year , and an announcement next year for the second half of the two - year record investment . that show out commitment to building , maintain and improve flood defence up and down our country . flood - prone community : Cumbria what step he be take to protect flood - prone community in Cumbria . as I may have already mention , we be put in a record £ 2 . 65 billion investment to build , maintain and improve flood defence up and down the country , which show this Government ' s commitment to make sure that our community and our farmland be protect from flooding . I thank the Minister for her answer . community in Cumbria have see many devastating flood over the last two decade , but flood action group in Keswick have work hard with United Utilities to develop a scheme that use thirlmere reservoir as a storm water store , help to prevent flooding in the town . all agree that more could be do . although I applaud their work , I note that there be no statutory requirement for water company to use their asset as flood defence . will the Minister look at how water company ' asset can be use to prevent flooding across the country ? I be grateful not only for the work that my hon . friend ' s action flood group do , but for the work that flood action group do right across the whole of his constituency . he raise an incredibly important and interesting issue . in the Sir John Cunliffe review , we be fundamentally look at the management of water right across entire catchment area . when we think about water management , we need to consider not only whether community have enough water to meet their need , but whether they have protection from flooding and drought . a holistic way of deal with some of the challenge we face be certainly one of the answer go forward . my hon . friend have give a great example , and I would be happy to explore it far with he . I call the shadow Minister . the Conservative Government protect over 600 , 000 property from flooding , introduce the £ 100 million frequently flood allowance and commit to a £ 5 . 2 billion investment in flood protection . however , we know that the mental health impact of flooding remain long after the water subside . rural community face unique challenge , include outbreak of disease such as avian influenza and foot and mouth — a clear and worrying threat , give the recent case in Germany and Hungary . unfortunately , this Labour Government be exacerbate such stress with their family farm tax and by scrap the farming resilience fund , which support mental health . can the Minister confirm , for the sake of mental health , what support will be offer to rural community in place of the scrap fund ? that all start so well — we nearly manage to get through the question with I agree with the hon . gentleman . he be quite right about this issue , which he have mention before . I be in complete agreement with he about the impact of flooding on mental health , and I know that we all take it seriously . we be invest £ 500 , 000 in mental health charity to support rural community , but I completely recognise the devastation that flood cause , and I be always happy to work with member from across the House on how we can support people ' s mental health . Environment Act 2021 : Deforestation due Diligence if he will take step to implement the provision of the Environment Act 2021 on deforestation due diligence . the big driver of deforestation worldwide be agricultural expansion , particularly the production of a small number of commodity such as soy and palm oil . this government be consider the approach to the deforestation regulation , and nothing have yet be rule in or out . I thank the Minister for her answer . tomorrow be the International Day of Forests . the Environment Act 2021 be pass over three year ago , with strong public and cross - party support , yet the due diligence provision to prevent the import of commodity link to illegal deforestation remain unimplemented , cause uncertainty for UK business . will the Minister provide a clear timeline for when the secondary legislation will come into force , and will she meet I , as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on global deforestation , alongside other member , to discuss how we can strengthen and accelerate its implementation ? the UK strongly support global effort to protect forest , and we be advocate for the international commitment to halt and reverse forest loss and land degradation by 2030 , while at the same time support forest dweller and economic development . as I say , nothing have yet be rule in or out , and I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this far . prioritise british Produce : Public Bodies what step he be take to encourage public body to prioritise the purchase of british produce . the new national procurement policy statement set out requirement for Government contract , and favour high - quality product that we believe british producer be very well place to supply . this will support our ambition to ensure that half of the food supply for public sector catering come from local producer , or those certify to high environmental standard . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to ensure that 50 % of public procurement be of british produce . give the significant £ 5 billion of bargaining power that this represent , what step be he take to ensure that this lead to fair price for farmer and support the fundamental operating profitability of the sector ? I be grateful for the question from my hon . friend . we be absolutely determined to make the good of this opportunity , not least because the previous Government do not know how much we be actually buy . the Secretary of State have announce that we will monitor the food buy in the public sector , and that will inform our policy of make sure that british farmer make the most of the opportunity for public procurement . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . the Secretary of State , in her speech to the Oxford farming conference , speak about the plan for change , which be go to include a commitment to public sector procurement , but that be in January , and we be now in March . with the closure of the basic payment scheme and the ending of the sustainable farming incentive , farm income be under real cash pressure in the here and now , so when will we hear more detail about the very welcome commitment that the Secretary of State make at the Oxford farming conference in January ? as I say in response to my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) , the first thing we need to do be establish how much we be actually buy , and that be now in progress . I absolutely get the point about the urgency . the question be why do this take the previous government so long when they share our ambition . we be determined to make this happen . community vulnerable to Flooding what step he have take to help protect community that be vulnerable to flooding . what step he have take to help protect community that be vulnerable to flooding . repair and rebuild our flood defence be a priority for this Labour Government , and we be invest at a record level to improve flood resilience , well protect 52 , 000 property by this time next year . the Environment Agency allocate its budget to carry out work on flood defence on the basis of a funding formula , but that formula do not give sufficient weight to agricultural land . will the Minister undertake a review of the formula , so that agricultural land get the flood defence it need ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue . I completely agree that the previous flooding formula do not work for rural community , which be exactly why we be consult to change it . the consultation will be announce shortly , and I encourage he and every member across the House to get involve in shape the formula , so we can make sure it deliver the right outcome for everybody up and down our country . first , I thank the Minister for visit Lilford in Leigh after the devastating new year ' s day flooding . we have a public meeting on Saturday , and three month after those flood , resident be still struggle to get any real progress from their insurance company , while other face extortionate premium and excess fee . what discussion be the Minister have with the insurance industry on improve how they support resident ? it be a pleasure to see my hon . friend and see how tirelessly she be champion and support her local constituent after such a devastating flood . concern around flood insurance have be raise , so the flood resilience taskforce be set up an insurance sub - group , through which some of its member will deep - dive into the challenge and opportunity for improvement on flood defence . if she have any further evidence that she would like I to look at , it would be very helpful to receive it . Thames Water : Financial Viability what discussion he have have with Thames Water on its financial viability . I be of course have conversation . I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that the company remain stable , and that the Government be closely monitor the situation . datum publish this week in the Guardian reveal that 50 % more raw sewage be discharge by Thames Water last year than in the previous 12 month . Thames Water be rack up billion of pound of expensive extraordinary debt , while continue to pump tonne of sewage into our river . despite bold target and kind word , there be simply no action on clean up our river . what will the Government do to improve Thames Water ' s performance ? the Government be take step to improve the performance of all water company , include through the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , which I speak about early . Sir Jon Cunliffe be lead a review of the entire sector , so that we can reform regulation and , if need be , the regulator , to ensure that they be fit for purpose . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . our river , lake and sea be awash with pollution . the public be rightly furious about leak pipe and sewage spill , and we have not build a new reservoir in this country for well over 30 year . after year of failure , this Government be turn the tide . the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 be create strong regulation to hold water company to account . we have secure over £ 100 billion of private sector investment — the large such investment in the water sector in its history — to upgrade our infrastructure . last week , the water Minister — my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) — and I tour the country from windermere to the Wye , from Hampshire to Yorkshire , and from Suffolk and Northumbria to Somerset , to see where that investment will build new home , create thousand of new job and boost local economy . this be a cornerstone of our plan for change . thing can only get clean . in February , Lucy Manzano of the Dover Port Health Authority come before the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee and warn that if funding be not confirm before the new financial year , check at our border would stop . with the new financial year fast approach and another case of foot and mouth in Europe , will the Secretary of State confirm that the Government have finally secure that funding , or will we be more at risk in April ? we take border security extremely seriously . that be why we have the btom — border target operating model — system , which we be very closely monitoring to make sure it be do the work that it need to do , and why we be invest money in the National Biosecurity Centre in Weybridge to ensure it do not fall into dilapidation , which be where it be head under the previous Government . the conservative party allow the river and lake in my constituency to be pollute with raw sewage while water bill rise and rise . do the Secretary of State agree with I that , as he just say , after 14 year of conservative neglect , thing can only get clean ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . over the past 14 year , thing only get filthy . this government will turn the tide . thing will get clean thank to the investment this government be bring in . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the Secretary of State back to the Chamber . he have be in hiding for a week . we be so worried about he that we be go to start a " where ' s Wally ? " competition . the reason he have be in hiding be that he be duck scrutiny of his dreadful decision to stop the sustainable farming incentive farm payment scheme immediately , without warn . conservative Members have be inundate with message from farmer say that business will not survive this late assault by the Government . how many farmer will be bankrupt as a result of the SFI stoppage ? there be , unfortunately , record level of bankruptcy of farm business under the previous Government , in which the right hon . Lady be a member of the Cabinet . under this government , we have more money in the hand of more farmer through SFI than at any point under the previous Conservative Government . this Government understand that when a budget have be fully allocate , you stop spend . the party of Liz Truss prefer instead to keep spending , bankrupt the economy and send mortgage spiral . that be not good for farmer , for the economy or for anyone . the Secretary of State can not find his way around a farmyard ; he be certainly not speak to farmer . we Conservatives know that if the Government continue to tax , tax , tax business , they will break . his answer show why we have see cold fury in the countryside at his impotence in stand up to the Chancellor on compulsory purchase order , the massive cut to de - link payment , the stopping of capital grant and SFI and , of course , the family farm fax . ahead of next week ' s emergency Budget and spending review , and give that the Guardian seem to know more than he do , will the Secretary of State guarantee that his government ' s Budget will not face far swingeing cut ? the problem face farming be that it become unprofitable because of the action of the previous Government , who undercut farm business in trade deal , undercut farmer on welfare and environmental standard and raise barrier to export to the european market , cause export to plunge by 20 % since 2018 , which lead to record number of bankruptcy . this Government have a plan for change that involve turn farming into a profitable set of business , include by back british business through public sector food procurement and rule out trade deal that undercut farmer in the way the previous Government be happy to do . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on cat . the Animal Welfare Committee ' s report in September highlight an urgent need for further regulation around the breeding of cat , after it uncover the deeply concern trend in demand for cat and other animal that be breed with extreme characteristic . will the Minister set out how many of the report ' s recommendation the Government have take up , and what their timeframe be for implementation ? I be sure that my hon . friend ' s cat , who I be tell be call Clem Cattlee and Mo Meowlam , will be delighted to hear that the Government be look very closely at the Animal Welfare Committee ' s opinion on the welfare implication of current and emergent feline breeding practice . I can assure they that we be carefully consider the committee ' s recommendation . farmer in North Norfolk be an incredible bunch who have show resilience through tough time and be still innovate and diversify , but there be more tough time ahead . what one thing do the Secretary of State think my farmer should be do to secure their future in the face of so many challenge ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . look ahead , the future can be very exciting for farming , but as the Secretary of State say , we have to establish farming as a profitable sector . we will work with the hon . Gentleman ' s farmer to ensure that vision be realise . my constituent in Burghfield Bridge have suffer for year with the devastating effect of flooding , and be rightly frustrate that nothing be be do . will the Minister meet I to discuss flood resilience and well join - up of local agency in Burghfield Bridge and across my constituency ? I thank my hon . friend for raise concern around flooding ; we have today hear about those concern up and down the country . I would , of course , be happy to meet she . after many year of rise cost for scottish pub , they now face be unfairly catch up in the double jeopardy of extended producer responsibility , as bottle go to pub be be class as household waste by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , even though almost no glass bottle deliver to pub end up in household waste . give the extremely tight margin on produce bottled beer , the situation threaten to cause serious harm to this part of the industry . will the Minister consider an EPR exemption for pub and other hospitality venue , or some kind of easement to help the situation ? we be introduce the big set of change to the regulation in 20 year . we be look at the issue of dual use , but the real prize with glass be , of course , to get to a reuse system , instead of a recycling system . I have be in touch with the drink company to look at how we speed up the start of that . labour - lead Nuneaton and Bedworth borough council have buck the national trend in fly - tipping with a reduction in the borough of more than 10 % , while total report incident have fall by 200 on the previous year . meanwhile , neighbour Conservative - lead North Warwickshire borough council serve only one fix penalty notice in the year 2023 - 24 . do my hon . friend agree that the action take by Nuneaton and Bedworth borough council demonstrate that council can reduce fly - tipping incident , and that North Warwickshire must do more to stop the scourge of fly - tipping on our country road ? I have travel along those country road near Coventry many time . my hon . friend be right : this be a political choice that council can make . I urge people in the upcoming election on 1 May to vote for more Labour county councillor , who will take this scourge seriously . last month , more than 4 , 000 litre of diesel spill into the River Wandle from a Transport for London garage in the Secretary of State ' s previous constituency . will the Secretary of State meet I and my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) to discuss what can be do to restore the wildlife and to ensure that that can not happen again ? I agree that what happen on the River Wandle be shocking ; it run very close to my constituency as well , so I be aware of the situation . the Environment Agency be investigate and , if there be inappropriate behaviour , there will be swift action . I would be happy to arrange an appropriate meeting for the hon . gentleman . for far too long , the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme have have to live with the consequence of Walley ' s Quarry landfill site . with the operator , Walley ' s Quarry Ltd , now in liquidation , may I urge the Minister to do all she can to make sure that those who cause the mess be force to pay to clean it up ? we be disappointed that Walley ' s Quarry have enter administration . the Environment Agency have attend the landfill site , assess it and decide that it do not pose an immediate risk , but , of course , we be liaise with specialist contractor to look after the site and we be in close contact with the Environment Agency to recoup those cost . may I first congratulate the new councillor , Ian Campbell , on his by - election win yesterday ? the team get a great result in my part of the world . many in my constituency be concerned about the newly coin grey belt , which will be use as an excuse to destroy our land irreversibly . what calculation have the Minister and his Cabinet colleague make about the impact on the environment of over - development on unspoiled green - belt land ? this be why we will be introduce a land - use framework — to ensure that we can make rational decision about how land be use to good effect . we be bless to be nestle between the beautiful River Adur and the sea in my constituency , but that leave we prone to flooding . last year , my constituent in Shoreham find their home and business flood . I welcome the Government ' s £ 2 . 65 billion for flood defence and must stress the importance of East Worthing and Shoreham get its fair share of that funding . will the Minister confirm when the Government will announce funding allocation for local flood defence project ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue . we be take decisive action to halt the steady decline in the condition of flood defence that we see under the previous Government , include shift an extra £ 108 million into maintenance . we will announce further project in due course . I recently visit New Sheepfold Farm in Ingleby Greenhow to see the great work that the Day family be do to diversify their farm , help nature recovery and improve enjoyment of our rural area . they do this with the help of the North York Moors National Park Authority and the farming and protect landscape scheme , which I be glad the Government have extend for a further year . do the Minister agree with I about the importance of family farm , such as that of the day , in landscape such as the dale and the moor , and will he ensure that they remain at the forefront of Ministers ' mind ? rise — rise — I call the Secretary of State . we be fight to have the honour of respond to the former Prime Minister ! of course I agree with he . our focus on farm profitability be precisely so that family farm up and down the country can have a bright and secure future . any sector that do not make a profit be not go to attract investment and will not have a future . we want farming to succeed in his constituency and in every constituency across the land . Solicitor General the Solicitor General be ask — violence against Women and girl : prosecution rate what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate in case of violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate in case of violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate in case of violence against woman and girl . early this month , we mark International Women ' s Day , and it be very move to hear the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , again record in this House the name of woman and girl who be kill in the past year . the scale of violence against woman and girl in this country be completely intolerable , which be why , under our plan for change , this Government have already take concrete step to tackle it , include the introduction of Raneem ' s law to put domestic abuse expert into 999 control room . I thank the Solicitor General for her answer . yesterday , I speak to one of my constituent . when she be 14 , she be rape by an adult whom she should have be able to trust . she wake up to he rape she . she have be carry that with she for decade . two year ago , she report what happen to she and she have be fight for her day in court all of that time . can the Solicitor General please set out what the Government be do to fix the broken system that be fail to deliver justice , and will she meet I to discuss how we can well support victim survivor such as my constituent ? I be very sorry to hear of the case that my hon . friend raise . as he know , this Government inherit a criminal justice system in crisis with a record Crown court backlog , mean that far too many victim such as his constituent be wait too long for their day in court . as part of the domestic abuse joint justice plan , in his local area the Crown Prosecution Service be trialle an enhance partnership between Merseyside and Cheshire police and CPS prosecutor , to ensure that charge decision , include in rape and serious sexual offence case , be make more swiftly and strong case be bring from the outset , with a view to quicker and more successful prosecution . as a former chair of North Ayrshire Women ' s aid , I know how low the prosecution rate be in case of violence against woman and girl , and how they can discourage people from come forward at all . victim withdrawal from prosecution be also very high , for myriad reason from poor treatment to long waiting time for court date . what work be be do to make woman feel more comfortable to come forward and report such case , and to support they throughout the whole process ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s work in this area . she be right to raise the extremely important point of victim attrition , which be unacceptably high right across our United Kingdom . that be why we have take swift action in England and Wales , through the CPS victim transformation programme , appoint victim liaison officer to support victim throughout the legal process . the scottish Labour leader Anas Sarwar have also pledge to make this issue a priority as part of his new direction for Scotland . control and coercive behaviour be an insidious form of abuse . will my hon . and learn Friend please outline what the Government be do to deal with it ? insidious be the right description . we fully recognise just how damaging that form of abuse be , and that it can follow a pattern of escalation that can lead to violence . that be precisely why the joint justice plan be underpin by a commitment to tackle all form of domestic abuse , ensure that police and prosecutor can jointly tackle coercive control . the Court of Appeal recently increase two sentence for control and coercive behaviour by way of the unduly lenient sentence scheme , which I hope send a very strong signal about just how seriously such conduct will be take . can the Solicitor General confirm that it be imperative that prosecution rate for all case of violence be increase , and that she be not suggest to the prosecute authority that they should discriminate on the ground of gender ? I can confirm that this Government and the CPS take seriously prosecute all crime , include the most serious one . equality before the law be a fundamental principle that underpin the rule of law and be foundational to this country . many victim be so traumatised after an assault that it take they some time to come forward . that cause delay and allow perpetrator to erase their trace . what more can we do to encourage any victim of assault to come forward as quickly as possible , know that they will have support as soon as they report something ? the hon . member raise an important point . the CPS be work right across the country to ensure that victim feel more able to come forward and that its service to victim improve . she will understand that the court backlog be key ; unfortunately , we inherit a record court backlog from the previous Government , and we have to tackle it . the Lord Chancellor be take a range of measure to get it down , so that victim will have the confidence that when they come forward they will have their day in court and justice will be do . in Surrey alone there be 1 , 500 case wait to be hear in our Crown court , include 166 sexual offence against woman and girl . prosecutor have be tell victim that they have between two and five year to wait to get their day in court . that be appalling . will the Solicitor General talk to the Ministry of Justice to reopen woke ' s court complex , which be close by the Conservative Government , to provide great legal capacity in Surrey ? the hon . member be right to suggest that the root cause of the backlog be a direct result of conservative choice and inaction . the previous Government close more than 260 court building — in one year alone the Tories close 84 magistrate court — which clearly lead to this considerable court backlog . I be pleased to say that the Lord Chancellor be take action on that backlog by fund 108 , 500 sit day in the Crown court and increase magistrate court ' sentence power . Criminal Justice System : technology what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to use technology to help improve efficiency in the criminal justice system . new technology have the potential to bring transformative benefit to the criminal justice system , as indeed it do to public service more broadly . the Government recognise that technology have the potential to radically enhance the way in which public service be deliver to the benefit of all of we and the public purse . for example , the Serious Fraud Office be trialle technology to improve the speed and quality of its disclosure work . the result have be promise . the tech identify relevant document 40 % more quickly than traditional method . I be pleased to say that it will be roll out to more case in the come month . my constituency be home to three prison : Lindholme , Hatfield and Moorland . give the challenge face in our local criminal justice system , particularly in managing caseload in prison and capacity , will the Solicitor General outline what specific technological innovation be be prioritise to speed up court process and improve access to justice for victim and defendant ? the work to improve our public service have to include the well use of technology . the Government be take decisive action to enable law enforcement agency and prosecute authority to harness innovative and cut - edge technology to reduce the court backlog , improve efficiency in the criminal justice system and lead to well outcome for victim . I be pleased to say that the Government Legal Department be provide leadership in this area through its artificial intelligence centre of excellence , which offer expert support to colleague across Government . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . with shameful vandalism of building in Eastbourne ' s Gildredge park and the torching of park bench in shinewater park reflect across the country , we clearly need more tool to tackle such crime in Eastbourne and beyond . technology be one of those tool . will the Solicitor General share with my constituent what tech the Government be set to deploy to help we address those crime more efficiently through the criminal justice system ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . as I outline , tech be incredibly important to help the entirety of the criminal justice system function well . the CPS , for example , be commit to deliver more technology - enable way of working , include pilot digital jury bundle , which will help speed up the court process . I have already mention the Serious Fraud Office , which be trialle technology in a number of different area , include its case management system , and I have also speak about the Government Legal Department . the key be well use of technology to enable well way of work across the entirety of the criminal justice system , include in the court , and especially by the CPS , to enable more prosecution . prosecution of Serious and Violent Crime : Huddersfield what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of serious and violent crime in Huddersfield . the Government ' s priority be to keep our street safe and to crack down on the serious and violent crime that unfortunately plague far too many community right across the country . as well as commit to more police officer and police community support officer on our street , we have take swift action to tackle knife crime by create new offence and penalty to deter the possession and sale of these barbaric weapon . our flagship Crime and Policing Bill will go even far with the big package of measure on crime and police for decade . make sure that town centre such as Huddersfield ' s be safe and thriving be important to our resident , local business and the night - time economy . how be the Solicitor General ensure that the CPS work effectively with local law enforcement to bring offender to justice and make our resident feel safe in our town ? I know my hon . friend have raise those important issue on the Floor of the House previously . I also know how hard she be work to ensure the safety of resident in her area . too many town centre and high street be plague by antisocial behaviour and shoplifting . those crime be too often dismiss as low - level , but community have to deal with the consequence . this government be take action : we be put an additional 13 , 000 police and pcso on our street and introduce respect order to ensure that disruptive antisocial behaviour be eradicate from our town centre . I have be visit local CPS unit around the country and have see at first hand their hard work to ensure that crime be successfully prosecute and that perpetrator be put behind bar . I call the shadow Solicitor General . the independent review of the Southport attack condemn the CPS and police ' s " near - silence " follow the attack and establishe silence as a catalyst for medium disinformation and public distrust . it state that silence " in the face of horrific event of major public interest be no long an option . " do the Solicitor General accept that Government secrecy fuel conspiracy theory and thus erode confidence in our justice system , or be the independent King ' s Counsel wrong ? Madam Deputy Speaker , you will not be surprised to hear that I completely reject the allegation of Government secrecy . certainly , when it come to Southport , those murder be some of the most harrowing in our country ' s history and it be absolutely right that due process be follow to allow for the successful conviction . it be vital that justice be do in those case . the shadow Solicitor General will know that there be issue around contempt , which the Law Commission be look at . the Law Commission have agree to a request from the Home Secretary to speed up that review and it be vital that we get the result of that review as soon as possible . the independent review warn that government silence " risk far more prejudice to any trial " than transparency . indeed , as be often say , the truth can be the good disinfectant . will the Solicitor General therefore agree to great transparency around major event in future and to implement Jonathan Hall ' s recommendation on the provision of information to the public to ensure that that never happen again ? the shadow Solicitor General refer to Jonathan Hall and the terrorism review . Terrorism be , of course , something that the Government take extremely seriously . Jonathan Hall ' s review have now conclude and it be right that his report — couple with the contempt review — be consider in full by the Home Secretary , as an important step in address all those question . Crown Prosecution Service : ensure Effective Functioning of the Courts what step she be take with the Crown Prosecution Service to help ensure the effective functioning of the court . what step she be take with the Crown Prosecution Service to help ensure the effective functioning of the court . this Government unfortunately inherit a record Crown court backlog , with the human impact feel most severely by victim . lengthy delay be much too common and victim attrition much too high . the Lord Chancellor have set out swift action to address that , include by increase the number of Crown court sit day and increase magistrate court ' sentence power to take pressure off the Crown court . the effective functioning of the court rely on sound and sensible sentencing guideline . in just 12 day , such guideline will no long exist and a two - tier sentencing system will come into force on the Solicitor General ' s watch . this be the fourth time that the issue have be raise by the opposition ; I hope we will have more luck in secure a direct answer from the Solicitor General . do she agree with the Justice Secretary that the guideline will bring in a two - tier sentencing system , and can she confirm once and for all what be be do to stop those sentencing guideline from come into force ? I remind the hon . member that the Conservative Sentencing Minister at the time write to the Sentencing Council make it clear that they welcome the new guidance . equality before the law be core to the application of the rule of law in this country and a foundational principle of our legal and judicial system . I be sure that colleague will welcome the fact that the Lord Chancellor meet the chair of the Sentencing Council last week , and they have a constructive discussion around the guideline . justice delay be justice deny . will the Solicitor General confirm that the court backlog be rise rather than fall , and can she explain why the Lord Chancellor have not maximise the number of sit day so that victim of rape and other serious crime do not have to wait unduly for their case to be hear ? the criticism would carry a little more weight be it not for the fact that the Conservatives spend the last 14 year drive up the record court backlog . the root cause of the backlog be a direct result of the Conservatives ’ choice . the previous Government close over 260 court building , and the record court backlog now stand at 73 , 000 case . as we have say , the human cost of those delay be considerable — victim be wait year for justice . the Lord Chancellor be take robust action . she have increase the number of Crown court sitting day , increase magistrate court ' sentence power and ask Sir Brian Leveson to lead an independent review of our criminal court to look at option for long - term reform . the previous Government do not act ; they drive up the backlog . this government be take action . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . as the Solicitor General say , the Lord Chancellor have substantially increase sitting day . the lack of a judge be only one reason that court stand empty . in the first nine month of 2024 , 368 Crown court trial be render ineffective because the prosecutor fail to attend . what discussion have the Solicitor General have with the CPS on improve prosecutor attendance , so that Crown court can sit close to judicial capacity ? my hon . friend raise an important point . the shortage of counsel be , indeed , a problem and have contribute to the record Crown court backlog . the Crown Prosecution Service be widen their panel , include for rape and serious sexual offence counsel . I have have regular discussion with the chair of the Bar Council around its work to try to ensure that criminal practitioner continue to stay in that line of work . I be also conscious that Ministry of Justice colleague be very much committed to the sustainability of the Bar and be have regular discussion . the previous Conservative Government preside over a justice system where 60 % of rape victim abandon their case , primarily due to the delay in court proceeding . this Government have prioritise victim by allocate a record number of sit day . do the Solicitor General agree that despite Opposition Members ' expression of outrage , their government fail to tackle the backlog and deliver timely justice to victim ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as I have say a number of time , the root cause of the backlog lie with the Conservatives not take action . it fall to this Government to take action , and it be action we be take . prosecution of Serious and Violent Crime : West Ham and Beckton what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of serious and violent crime in West Ham and Beckton constituency . we be take strong action as part of our plan for change to tackle the serious and violent crime on our street . our new Crime and Policing Bill will back our police and prosecutor by give they enhanced and tough power to keep our street safe , to tackle antisocial behaviour and to crack down on knife crime . I know my hon . friend will also welcome the record £ 1 . 16 billion investment in the Metropolitan police from the Home Secretary and the Mayor of London , which will help deliver this Government ' s safe street mission in my hon . friend ' s constituency . my constituent in West Ham and Beckton be extremely concerned about knife crime . we have have a serious number of incident over the last few year , include in the last few week . could my hon . and learn Friend reassure my constituent on the work that the Government be do to take a strong approach on prosecute knife crime and the work be do to support victim ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this important issue . this Government have already ban machete . we be introduce legislation that will clamp down on the sale of dangerous knife online , and we be commit to ban ninja sword , too . I recently meet the CPS ' s victim transformation programme and hear how the CPS be fundamentally transform the way it provide support to victim to ensure that they get the assistance they need at every stage of the criminal justice process . prosecution of Serious and Violent Crime : Luton South and South Bedfordshire what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of serious and violent crime in Luton South and South Bedfordshire constituency . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that question . the Government be take decisive action to crack down on serious and violent crime right across the country , and to ensure that perpetrator of such offence be put behind bar . as such , I welcome her strong support for the Crime and Policing Bill , which contain tough measure to tackle knife crime and other crime . sadly , Bedfordshire police record some of the high knife crime rate in England in the year end March 2024 . a robust and quick CPS response be key to deliver justice for victim and their family . how be the Government ensure that we increase prosecution rate for those serious offence to keep dangerous offender off our street ? my hon . friend raise a critical issue that affect community in Bedfordshire and across the country . an important part of the Government ' s mission to make our street safe be our commitment to halve knife crime in a decade . we have implement our ban on zombie - style knife and machete , and we be move forward with our plan to ban ninja sword later this year . we know that more need to be do to tackle the sale of knife and offensive weapon online , which be why we have recently announce Ronan ' s law , which will include strict rule for online knife sale . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the business for next week ? I shall . the business for the week commence 24 March include : Monday 24 March — Second reading of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill . Tuesday 25 March — if necessary , consideration of Lords amendment , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Non - domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the great british Energy Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill , follow by motion to approve the draft National Minimum Wage ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 . Wednesday 26 March — my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will make her spring statement , follow by remain stage of the Tobacco and Vapes Bill . Thursday 27 March — general debate on St Patrick ' s day and Northern Irish affair , follow by general debate on the 10th anniversary of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 28 March — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 31 March include : Monday 31 March — if necessary , consideration of Lords amendment , follow by remain stage of the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 1 April — Second reading of the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] . I call the shadow Leader of the House . thank you very much indeed , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope that you and the House will excuse I if I start on a very personal note . almost exactly 24 hour ago , my father , Torquil Norman , die at the age of 91 . he be an extraordinary man . he fly Seafires and Sea Furies during his national service in the Fleet Air Arm . he create Polly Pocket , a toy that have bring unbelievable joy to many young people around the House and around the world . he rebuild the Roundhouse in Chalk Farm in London , not just as an incredible perform art centre , but as a creative centre for young people from whatever background to be able to find their way into job . the reason I mention that now be that my father stand for value that bear a wide consideration in this House and in our own life — value of positivity and creativity . he always say that the secret to success in the toy business be to have a mental age of seven and an eye for detail . he have incredible energy but also amazing resilience and focus on the long term . " turn up at the finish line " be one of his maxim . even in his 80 , he be build and create a new enterprise to develop flat - pack truck , if you can imagine such a thing , Madam Deputy Speaker , that could be sell to country around the world at low cost , support business and people . I think the whole House would agree with I that we need these value today . at a time of difficulty , stagnation and international conflict , we need these value of creativity , ambition , drive , respect for other and , above all , capability — a focus not just on the head , but on the hand and the heart as well . that be something I feel very strongly about . we be try to build a new specialist technical engineering college in Hereford , precisely to bring those different aspect of the human personality together in the service of well job and well possibility . I also think that it encourage we all , as a House and as a Parliament , to ask the right question and to support long - term solution , even when those question and solution may not be one that we be ideologically or politically draw to . we be in a world where welfare cost be rise high than anyone could have want ; civil service effectiveness be perhaps not as great as we would like ; productivity in the NHS be not what we would all want , for whatever reason that may be , over a very long period ; and we need a rapid boost to our defence and security . those be crucial question that we , as a House , will need to continue to develop and discuss over the next few year . I want to ask the Leader of the House whether we and other Members of the Modernisation Committee can not expand our thinking about those long - term issue and try to push for more scope for co - operation between the party on they , more consultation and debate on key legislation before it be bring to the House , and more way to develop close personal engagement between member , so that we can build respect and co - operation across the House for the long term . one of my father ' s maxim — you will have discover that he have many — be , " the secret to success be to take a large bite and then chew it . " I think that we could perhaps do that more as a House and as a country . before the Leader of the House respond , I wish to put on the record my condolence to the right hon . Gentleman , and my love and prayer . he and I spend some time together in a Department . he be a top gentleman to work with , and his father will have be very proud . I thank the shadow Leader of the House for that tribute to his father , Torquil Norman . I do not know he , but he sound like a wonderful father — someone who invent child ' s toy but also who have great wisdom and give he great advice . we in this House should all live by those value of positivity , creativity and resilience that the right hon . Gentleman so fondly share with we . I send he and his family my very good wish , as I be sure the whole House do , as he come to term with that in the come day . I want to congratulate Newcastle United — I would not normally , but they do win their first silverware in 70 year . it be also great to see that the Tour de France in 2027 will start in Edinburgh and make its way through England and Wales . as international event yet again dominate , I be sure we all look with horror at the unfold situation in Gaza in particular , with aid be withhold and the killing continue . as the Foreign Secretary will set out to the House shortly , we want to see an urgent resumption of the ceasefire and the long - term peace talk continue . in the spirit of the right hon . Gentleman ' s contribution , I want to put on the record my thank to he for the cross - party work that he and I do across the House , not just through the Modernisation Committee but on the House of Commons Commission , chair by Mr Speaker , and the many other board that we have to sit on for many hour indeed . he make a really important point , and it be one of the reason why I want to establish the Modernisation Committee . I could have come into this position as Leader of the House and just lay down motion — which I do on many day — to change the rule of the House , but that be not how I want to work . I take very seriously my role as Leader of the House , and as such I represent the whole House and want to bring the House together . I want to hear from small party and to work cross - party . I believe that in this place we work well when we work together cross - party , on Select Committees and on issue that unite we . many of those issue be raise regularly with I in business question , and I join the right hon . Gentleman in say that we could definitely do more to tackle the big issue that this country face , whether that be our defence and security , the welfare reform that be need , job of the future or social care — that might be raise with I again today . long may that continue , and we should strive to do more of it . I add my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House . Polly Pocket be still go today — my granddaughter be a Polly Pocket fan , and my daughter still have all of hers . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate North Tyneside council , the Football Foundation , the Rugby Football League and other key partner that be support the new multimillion pound sport hub in Wallsend , which officially open early this week and will serve as the headquarters for Northumberland FA and , at long last , provide a clubhouse for Wallsend rugby football club ? do she agree with the ceo of the Football Foundation that such facility have a " transformative impact on physical and mental health , and play in important role in bring people together and strengthen local community " ? I also thank the Leader of the House for her congratulation on our wonderful Newcastle United . I join my hon . friend in again congratulate Newcastle United , as well as the work that be be do in her constituency to create sport facility for grassroots football , rugby and other sport . she be absolutely right ; those thing be vital for our community and young people . that be why we be review the school curriculum and put more money into local government . it be also why we be introduce a football regulator Bill to ensure that grassroots football be protect across the country . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I extend my condolence , and those of my party , to the shadow Leader of the House on the passing of his father — he sound like an amazing man who will be miss not just by the right hon . Gentleman , but by many across the country . yesterday , in response to a question about welfare reform from the Mother of the House , the Prime Minister highlight the importance of get young people into work . he say : " I think that one in eight young people not be in education or training … be a moral issue . " — [ Official Report , 19 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 348 . ] I could not agree more about the importance of education and training , but I gently suggest that some of the Government ' s own policy be fight against that . Anglia Ruskin University have a campus in the heart of my Chelmsford constituency . its relatively new medical school be do fabulous work teach the doctor and medical professional of the future — member of the workforce that we desperately need in our NHS . it be do that in new way . when I visit ARU just a few week ago , I meet three of the 25 apprentice take part in the only medical doctor apprenticeship of its kind in the country . that apprenticeship be aim at get more young people from disadvantaged background into medicine , and it be structure in such an innovative way that those apprentice will remain in their local area to complete their foundation training . that mean that they will have a familiar local support system around they as they progress . it be an excellent programme , and exactly what we need to recruit , train and retain young medical professional . but it be a level 7 apprenticeship , and the Government be scrap they . as this be clearly a moral issue for the Prime Minister , will the Leader of the House ask the Government to think again , and provide hope that brilliant programme such as that can continue ? I thank the hon . member for that question , and for pass on her condolence to the shadow Leader of the House . she be right that get young people into work be a priority for the Government , and it be important for the country that we do so . we need to reform the apprenticeship system so that more apprenticeship be available for young people , but that be not the system we inherit . in the system we inherit , the apprenticeship levy be underuse and underspent , and apprenticeship start be fall . that be why we be create Skills England and reform the apprenticeship levy , so that the young people she talk about can get the help they need . notwithstanding the case the hon . Lady raise , I be sure that she will recognise that the vast majority of level 7 apprenticeship be be use by people later in their career , who already have degree and who want management training , so we have have to look at whether that be sustainable and right . however , she raise an important point about a scheme in the university in her constituency . we need to get more young people into medicine , especially those from disadvantaged background , and I will ensure that that particular offering be look at and that she get a full reply . may I , too , offer my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House ? I concur with what he say : as a Parliament , we be well when we collaborate . I want to raise a constituency issue . trade union rep do a fantastic job represent their colleague , community and profession . however , a rep at a school in York have be suspend for carry out trade union activity and raise employment right . will the Leader of the House raise this grievous matter with Cabinet colleague ? our rep work in public service should not be suspend for raise concern about issue such as funding across our education system . can pressure be put on the multi - academy trust , which be completely unaccountable , to reinstate this representative ? I be sorry to hear about the case my hon . friend raise . she be right that our trade union representative do an important job in our workplace , provide a link between employer and employee , and ensure that people have the standard and right that they be entitle to at work , and that they be work in healthy and safe environment . I will ensure that the case she raise be look into . we be take step to ensure that academy chain be hold to account in the same way as local council . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I note that the Leader of the House do not announce whether time on Thursday 3 April would be allocate for debate determine by the Backbench Business Committee . if we be give that date , we will have a statement from the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee on child in temporary accommodation , follow by debate on the impact of digital platform on UK democracy and on access to sport and physical education in school . if we be offer time on Tuesday 8 April , the last day before the recess , we will have a debate on the reward of a posthumous Victoria Cross to Blair Mayne — and I advise the Leader of the House never to cross Jim Shannon . there will then follow a debate on matter to be raise before the Easter Adjournment . in Westminster Hall , next Tuesday there will be a debate on the retrospective accountability of the construction industry , which be vital . next Thursday there will be a debate on the prevention of drug death and a debate on the first anniversary of the Hughes report on valproate and pelvic mesh , which have be raise at business question many time . on Tuesday 1 April there will be a debate on eat disorder awareness . on Thursday 3 April there will be a debate on waste incinerator , follow by a debate on Government support for Thames Water . on Tuesday 8 April , the day before the Easter recess , there will be debate on the persecution of Christians . in addition , it would be much appreciated if we could be advise of the date for the estimate day debate in May . unfortunately , House business seem to completely disrupt the meeting that we be mean to have , but I send a letter to the Leader of the House about potential opportunity for 90 - minute general debate when government business be likely to finish early . last week I host a meeting in this place of Rotary International representative on the eradication of polio across the world . we hear from Dr Hamid Jafari from Amman , Gulcheen Aqil from Pakistan and Aziz Memon from Pakistan , as well as Dr Sir Emeka Offor from Nigeria . we have invest million of pound in try to eradicate polio across the world . unfortunately , the new International Development Minister be not able to attend because of short notice of the change of Ministers , and we understand that . we also know that there be a reduction in overseas aid , which I make no comment on . however , we want to see a statement from the International Development Minister on which programme will be preserve and which one will be cancel . at the moment , there be only two country in the world — Afghanistan and Pakistan — where polio be still rife . if we cut those programme , the risk be that polio would rear its head again across the world and all the money we have invest would be waste . can we have a statement next week on that particularly important subject ? Mr Blackman , you be the last person I should be chide for use a Member ' s name , not their constituency , in the Chamber . obviously I would never cross the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — of course not . his criticism or praise be very important to I . as ever , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) outline some really important debate that the Backbench Business Committee be facilitate . I will look very kindly on Thursday 3 April and on the Tuesday before the recess in the usual way , and I hope that our meeting can be rearrange very soon . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the issue of the eradication of polio and for all his great leadership and work on this issue over many year . it be an issue close to my heart : my mum have polio as a youngster , and she suffer from the consequence of that even today . the Government strongly support global effort to eradicate polio . as he will know , decision on the future of the overseas development aid budget be subject to the spending review , but I will absolutely ensure that his powerful and strong representation have be hear as part of those conversation . my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House and his family . as a physiotherapist prior to be elect to this place , I be delighted to welcome member of all 14 ally health profession to a roundtable in Parliament this week . they account for about a third of the NHS ' s entire workforce and work tirelessly to improve patient care . fundamentally , they all agree that ally health profession be sideline and that their role be often misunderstood . do my right hon . friend therefore agree that we should have a debate in Parliament on the importance of AHPs and the crucial work that they do in the NHS ? my hon . friend raise a really important matter . it be good to see that she be take her experience from her previous job as a physiotherapist and provide strong leadership here in the House on those issue . she be absolutely right that AHPs provide a huge contribution to our NHS . without physiotherapist and other , we would not be able to get people well , fit and healthy again and able to continue with their life and their work , so I absolutely support her request for a debate . my condolence to my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) . interestingly , his comment and his eulogy to his father at this particular time bring into stark relief the absence in too many family of positive male role model for many young boy grow up . we all ought to be concern about that . we have a real problem at the moment , because we have not really debate the use of slave labour in product in the UK . there be a really interesting point here , because in America right now company that have fail to interrogate their own supply chain be be sanction — not know be not good enough . many of they be actually in use in the UK , include three in particular . a parent company , Donghai Jaisolar Technology , be be use at the Ministry of Defence ; Hongyuan Green Energy , which have be sanction by the USA , be in use over here , and so be Jiangsu Micoe Solar Energy . other company , such as Jinko Solar and Canadian Solar , be ever present , and they be all essentially guilty of the use of slave labour . can we have a proper debate about how we can stop that , as the Americans have be do for some time ? surely we now need to sanction company that use slave labour to get cheap advantage . as ever , the right hon . Gentleman raise an issue that I know he have long campaign on and its implication for the UK . he be absolutely right to raise it . we should not tolerate slave labour be use in any of the product on sale or be use in this country , and we need to do more to expose and have transparency around that . I think that would make a very good topic for a debate , but I will certainly ensure that relevant minister update this House on how we can have the economic security and transparency to ensure that that do not happen . I too offer my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House — Torquil Norman sound absolutely great . Parc Bryn Bach woman have recently win the Welsh cross - country championship , beat the like of Cardiff and Swansea run club to lift the trophy . will the Leader of the House please join I in congratulate this small club from Tredegar on its achievement ? those runner have make their fellow club member , include I , very proud . I think my hon . friend be invite I on a cross - country run there — the answer would have be a clear no . I join he in congratulate the cross - country club from Tredegar of which he be a member on win the Welsh championship . I add my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House . I agree that at a time when boy and young man be lack role model , the memory of his father be a powerful example of why dad matter . King Edward ' s school in Bath come third in the national reading champion quiz . I be sure the Leader of the House will join I in congratulate that school on its wonderful achievement , but read for pleasure be now at an all - time low . can we have a debate in Government time on how to improve read proficiency among child of all age ? I join the hon . Lady in congratulate King Edward ' s school . we discuss many of these issue last week , as it be World Book Day when we meet in the Chamber — we share powerful testimony about the importance of reading , access to school library , book scheme , and all the literacy work that go on . I absolutely support the hon . Lady ' s call to make sure that read for pleasure be central to our education . across my constituency , in town such as Corbridge , Ponteland , Prudhoe , Haltwhistle and Hexham , people be very passionate about the environment and the natural world , so they will have be disappoint to hear the Leader of the Opposition junk her party ' s environmental commitment . do the Leader of the House agree that moderate conservative candidate should do some soul - search and tell the people of Northumberland whether they plan to put planet before party ? absolutely . I think we see the Leader of the Opposition go to a whole other planet this week — Planet Zog , maybe , or I be sure there be many other . my hon . friend be right that not only be tackle climate change important for the future of our climate , but it be vital to provide the job of the future that we need in this country and the energy security that will protect we from the like of Putin in the future . it also mean that all of our constituent will have low bill over the long term , which be why the Leader of the Opposition ' s announcement this week be a completely mad thing to do . I send my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House . his father sound like an incredible man , and I certainly love play with my Polly Pocket , so I thank he for that lovely memory this morning . aplastic anaemia be a life - threaten blood disorder . although it be rare , it can affect hundred across the country , but there be no information about it on NHS England ' s website . sadly , the constituent who bring this issue to my attention , Mr Jenkins , have pass away from the condition , but I promise his wife that in his memory , I would continue to raise aplastic anaemia and ensure that it get list on the NHS website , as it currently be on NHS Inform in Scotland . in light of NHS England be disband , can the Leader of the House raise with Cabinet colleague the question of how we can ensure that rare condition be recognise ? those condition cause great distress and isolation , and I want to make sure that do not happen in the future . I be sorry to hear about the hon . Lady ' s constituent ' s pass from that rare condition , and congratulate she on bring this issue to the floor of the House on behalf of his wife . she be absolutely right : rare condition , which be often raise with I at business question , often do not get the attention or the signposting that they desperately need . I will ensure that the hon . Lady get a full response . may I too extend my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House ? his father sound like a wonderful man . I recently visit Chase Recovery in my constituency . it be a community - base , peer - lead rehabilitation programme , design for those who experience substance misuse and be seek a new abstinent life fill with meaning and purpose . I meet Paul and Cara while there , and their passion for their work be inspiring and infectious . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate they on the work they do , and will the House hold a debate on the importance of innovative , community - base service when it come to sustainable , long - term recovery from substance misuse ? I certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate Paul and Cara on the work they do on rehabilitation in her constituency . she highlight once again the important role of prevention , early intervention and rehabilitation to ensure that people be healthy and successful in life in whatever way . often those service be deliver by fantastic volunteer . the shadow Leader of the House refer to his admirable father ' s national service in the course of his tribute , and that take place during a cold war that be prevent from turn into the third world war by the presence of american force in NATO , lead by the Supreme Allied Commander Europe . up to now , that have always be a senior US army or other officer . report be now say that in the Trump Administration ' s late move away from the security system that prevent a third world war until the collapse of the soviet empire , America be propose to give up the post of SACEUR and allow a european or canadian — prior to annexation — to take it over . may we have a statement about what the Government be do to prevent such a dangerous and foolish outcome from proceed ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to say that our strength and security in this country , in Europe and across the world come from our very strong alliance with Europe and with America through NATO . our commitment to that be unwavering , and that have be a critical component of peace and security around the world over recent year . I be sure he will appreciate that I will not provide a running commentary on the Trump Administration , but he will recognise that the Defence Secretary , the Foreign Secretary and indeed the Prime Minister have be incredibly forthcoming with update and provide detail to this House , and I will ensure that they continue to do so . my sincere condolence go to the shadow Leader of the House . hundred of thousand of household across this country live on unadopted estate . they can be in that status for a great many year — I be hear up to 10 year . in my constituency of Warwick and Leamington , I have estate where certain street have be build , for example by Taylor Wimpey , and resident be just charge council tax , but on other street , perhaps build by Persimmon , resident be be charge not just council tax but a monthly fee . fortunately , my local Labour councillor be campaign against company such as FirstPort , because they see that as an absolute outright scam . can I therefore urge the Government to allow a meeting with the Housing Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , or indeed a debate ? I fear that this issue be be feel right across the country , and it be an absolute scandal . my hon . friend be right that this issue be be feel right across the country . we have call it fleecehold , and that be for a reason . it be why we want to end these leasehold estate for good . we have already end leasehold for new housing , and we will be end new leasehold for flat , too . we be bring forward the commonhold White Paper and , later this year , the draft leasehold reform legislation . we look forward to work with he and his local councillor to end fleecehold for good . I offer my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House . plan to install electricity pylon across my constituency be cause huge concern to many of my constituent . we have a Pencader - base cable - plough company , ATP , which specialise in the innovative spider plough technique . it have a low impact on the environment and have lay underground power line all over Europe , include here in the UK . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate this local success story , which offer an efficient , ecologically friendly , environmentally friendly and , most importantly , efficient way of address our energy infrastructure need ? the hon . Lady raise an important matter , and I know that the building of new pylon be an issue of concern for local people in many constituency . we need to build the energy infrastructure of the future , which include new pylon , but we be bring forward measure to ensure that those who live near new pylon will receive £ 2 , 500 off their energy bill in the come year . put cable underground be an innovative approach , and the example that she give be one that I be sure the Secretary of State will be keen to look at . may I , too , offer my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House ? woman ' s right have come a long way ; indeed , we have have three female Prime Ministers , and we now have our first female Chancellor and a female leader of the House . however , many woman and girl in the UK be still be deny the right to feel safe in their community , on the street , in their home and even online . although charity and government continue to work tirelessly to combat sexual violence — indeed , our Government have a landmark mission to halve violence against woman and girl — some of my constituent say that many agency , include the police , still do not take sexual violence seriously , respect victim - survivor testimony or take serious action to stop the harm . will the Leader of the House provide time for a debate — order . we really do have to have short question . can the hon . Gentleman please get to his point ? will the Leader of the House provide time for a debate on how state agency can work to protect victim - survivor well ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . tackle violence against woman and girl be a national emergency , which be why this Government have a really ambitious mission to halve the level of violence against woman and girl within a decade . that will take a huge effort . we have already take a number of step , such as ban sexually explicit deepfake and take action on stalk and spike . we be introduce many other measure in forthcoming Bills , and I look forward to debate they with he . my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House . I have spend many happy hour look for lost Polly Pocket piece . the Leader of the House have have many invitation to the Scottish Borders , and I extend an invitation for she to come to the Langholm Common Riding , which be a fantastic event where the cornet lead a cavalcade of horse to check the town ' s boundary . but if she be to come to Langholm right now , she would find that people be very unhappy about a propose cull of feral goat on the moorland surround the town . a company call Oxygen Conservation take over a large part of that moor for the purpose of rewilding , but local people be dismay that its first action be to propose a cull of goat . whatever the merit or otherwise of such a scheme , do the Leader of the House agree that it be important that organisation such as Oxygen consult local people and do not just ride roughshod over their view ? absolutely , and I thank the right hon . gentleman for the invitation to his constituency . I have have many invitation to the region , and I hope to come good on they one day . this have become a very big issue in his constituency . I understand that a petition about this matter have garner much support , and he be absolutely right : rewilding or nature preservation organisation really ought to work with local people to ensure that their wish be consider . I hope the spring equinox have put a spring in your step this morning , Madam Deputy Speaker . every Saturday , people from all around Bedworth join the weekly parkrun in the Miners ' welfare park . after the run , the Mayor ' s Caf é and the garden centre , run by People in Action , be often full , but the town centre remain relatively empty . bedworth be receive £ 20 million from the plan for neighbourhood , so I have launch a survey to see what resident feel their town centre need . will the Leader of the House grant time for a debate on support for business on our high street and in our town centre ? well , Madam Deputy Speaker , I certainly do not feel like a spring chicken any more , that ' s for sure . I be really pleased to hear that Bedworth be receive £ 20 million from the Government ' s plan for neighbourhood . my hon . friend be absolutely right that this be a really important scheme to make sure that our town centre and village centre get the regeneration support they so desperately need . I , too , add my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House and his family . his father — from defend our country to improve our child ' s happiness and increase our cultural awareness — have an incredible life , and one of which I be sure he can be proud . the Government ' s new Crime and Policing Bill promise significant reform to police in this country . however , it be concern that no money motion be pass for the Bill , especially when the need to strengthen community police to ensure the successful implementation of these reform be urgent . will the Leader of the House commit to move a money motion that specifically allocate funding for community police — order . it may be helpful if I point out that police measure , as criminal justice matter , do not require a money resolution , as I have just be advise by the Clerk . I be not sure if that be of assistance either to the hon . member or to the Leader of the House . I call Luke Taylor if he want to complete his question . it seem you may have pre - empte the end of my question , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I would very much appreciate some clarification . I be happy to answer the question anyway , because the hon . member raise a really important matter . this be a big Bill , with lot of good and important measure in it . it be one of my favourite Bills , not least because it will give the police the power to seize quad bike and off - road vehicle , which be very popular in business question , as well as many other popular measure . however , he be absolutely right that , unless we have the police officer on the street to operationalise these power , our constituent will not feel the benefit . I can assure he that these measure be fully cost , and we be commit to 13 , 000 new neighbourhood police officer alongside they . I associate myself with all the word of condolence to the shadow Leader of the House , despite all the hour I have spend try to find bit of Polly Pocket to placate my child . my right hon . friend be aware that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority publish its timetable last week for pay out compensation to the infected and the affected . follow that , Sir Brian Langstaff , the chair of the infected blood inquiry , make it know that he intend to write a further report in response to the complaint he have receive from the victim about the timetable for the compensation process and the adequacy of the Government ' s response . can she update we on the promise debate on infected blood on the Floor of this House ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , which I know he have campaign on for a long time . I be sure he recognise that , certainly in recent year , the process have be too slow for many of those infect and affect by this terrible scandal . that be why we move at pace after the general election , when we first come into office , to establish the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . fund be now go to the infected , and the statutory instrument to take that forward be be consider upstairs on Monday . we have have two debate so far since the election and three statement to this House , but I will , as ever , ensure that the relevant Minister be totally open with this House and that we have plenty of opportunity to debate these important matter . a short while ago , I meet member of the Brewood and Codsall dementia support group in my constituency , and they raise the issue of the increase number of people be diagnose with early onset dementia and the difficulty of support they . could we have a statement or a debate in Government time on how we can support those with early onset dementia , include early access to pension because such people ' s life expectancy be so much short ? the right hon . member raise a good point . Dementia get raise a lot in business question and , I know , in Health question . we be committed to early diagnosis and to get up the diagnosis rate . he raise a particular issue about access to pension that I think require further consideration , and I will certainly raise that with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . be deaf should not be a barrier to sport . I be so pleased that Macie White , a Derby North constituent , have be select to be part of GB ' s deaf woman ' s football team compete in the Deaflympics in Tokyo later this year . Macie have to fundraise to cover the cost of her expense . will the Leader of the House join I in wish the GB team good luck ? may we have a Government statement on how we can encourage participation and sponsorship for deaf sport at both grassroot and elite level ? my hon . friend have take the opportunity to draw attention to a really important issue . I join she in congratulate Macie White on make the GB deaf woman ' s football team and wish she well . I hope that in raise it today , the team maybe get the extra sponsorship and support it so deserve . my constituent will be concern by report in the medium this morning about a Government report that show the cost of net zero will : impact negatively on gdp by 2030 by some 10 % , increase national debt , increase the risk of a financial crisis , and hit the poor the hard . give that the report be suppress from the Department for Business and Trade by the previous Government , and give this Government ' s enthusiasm for transparency , will the Leader of the House confirm that the report will now be release to the public to enhance debate on this issue ? first of all , I congratulate the hon . gentleman : I think he have a new role as chief adviser to the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , because they seem to be on the same page this week . like she , though , I be afraid he be wrong on this issue , because we can not ignore net zero . it be not just important for the climate , but absolutely critical to lower bill , create job and create the energy security we need . not take action on net zero will actually cost we a lot more in the long run than take the step we be take to invest in the job and low bill of the future . I extend my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House . it say a lot about he that he be here in this place do his duty today . last month , the mayor of the ancient and loyal borough of Newcastle - under - Lyme , Councillor Barry Panter , tragically die in a traffic accident . although we be from different political tradition , he and I get on well and he be always very kind indeed to I . last night , member of the borough council meet to pay tribute to Barry . sadly , the chair do not have enough time to read out my tribute . with that in mind , will the Leader of the House join I and my hon . friend the Members for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) and for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) in mourn his loss , extend our collective condolence to Barry ' s wife Beatrice on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government , and give thank for his noble service to our armed force , the South Wales police force and our community in Newcastle - under - Lyme ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in pass on the Government ' s condolence and pay tribute to Barry Panter for his contribution to public life , both as a former police officer and dedicated public servant . my hon . friend have serve his constituent very well today . I , too , offer my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House on the loss of his father , who sound like a very fine gentleman indeed . the Leader of the House will , I be sure , welcome the visit to the United Kingdom this week of the new canadian Prime Minister , Mark Carney . Canada be , of course , a great friend to the United Kingdom and the new Prime Minister be very welcome . however , the Leader of the House must surely see that the UK economy be suffer from growth flattening , inflation above target and unemployment on the up — all as a result of the economic model adopt by the Chancellor and endorse by the former Governor of the Bank of England , who be one of her adviser before the election , no less . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate to discuss how printing money , raise taxis and add more cost to business have drive up price and damaged job ? will she accept that former Bank of England economist and governor seem to have little clue about how the economy actually work , which be bad for Britain and bad for Canada ? I would gently remind the hon . Gentleman — I can see he know what be come , because he be grimace already — that under his government we see inflation go to 11 % , the economy crash , taxis raise to their high in 70 year and debt out of control . we have have to come along and put the economy back on a stable footing , and that have mean take difficult decision . we need to invest in our public service and put the economy back on a stable footing . I be afraid we will not be take lecture from the Conservatives on that . I pass on my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House , whose father sound like a modern - day Father Christmas . as a child , together with my mother and sister , I experience a period of homelessness . it be an incredibly difficult time for all of we . thank to the kindness of family and friend , we have a support network to get we through it , but sadly , that be not the case for everybody . this Friday , I will be join resident from across my constituency at Doncaster Rovers football club for the Snooze in the South Stand event — an initiative that give participant a powerful insight into the daily reality face by too many people who be fight homelessness in our community . will the Leader of the House join I in praise those organising and take part in this important event and recognise the step the Government be take to reduce and eventually get rid of homelessness altogether ? I thank my hon . friend for use his own experience to highlight the important issue of homelessness . I join he in wish well everyone take part — include my hon . friend himself — in the forthcoming Snooze in the South Stand event . he be right : we have to tackle the root cause of homelessness . we have put more money into tackle homelessness , we be end no - fault eviction and we be absolutely committed to one of the big house building programme , include in social and affordable housing , that this country have ever see . I add my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House . as of today , while ultrafast broadband be available in Chester , only 19 % of premise have access . village in my constituency that be within a few mile of Chester city centre , such as Waverton , Littleton , Christleton and Rowton , have an average download speed of just 10 megabit per second , as against the UK average of 69 . 4 megabit per second . these village do not qualify for Project Gigabit , as they be class as urban rather than rural , despite be in the countryside , and they be outside the boundary of the city of Chester , so be not include in urban - focus project . would the Leader of the House consider provide an opportunity for the issue to be properly address in the House in the form of a debate on broadband speed in rural area ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that the roll - out of fast , full - fibre and gigabit broadband have be too slow , especially in rural area such as those in her constituency , which sound like they be between urban and rural . this Government be commit to that roll - out by 2030 , but I will absolutely ensure that she get an update on what be happen in her constituency . may I pass on my own personal condolence to the shadow Leader of the House ? he and I have know each other ever since he enter this House . he make a fitting and move tribute to his late father . every family in Rochdale , include mine , have a relative or friend who have benefit from the superb end of life care provide by Springhill hospice . I want to pass on the hospice ' s thank to the Government for provide £ 111 , 000 in new funding just this month as part of a £ 100 million investment in hospice across the country . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Greater Manchester hospice provider collaborative , which visit Parliament this week to show the NHS just how much innovation and expertise hospice can provide to the palliative care movement ? absolutely . I be sorry I could not join my hon . friend and other Greater Manchester colleague at the event with the Greater Manchester hospice provider collaborative early this week — I see the photo — and I fully support his work on this . I will take this opportunity to thank Springhill hospice in Rochdale . I be really pleased it have have £ 111 , 000 of extra investment thank to this Government , and I hope it will continue to flourish . may I also express my sympathy to the shadow Leader of the House ? I know Torquil , his father , very well for many year . I work in the toy industry in competition with he and work with he on many charity . he create some fantastic toy , not just Polly Pocket , but the big yellow teapot , the a la carte kitchen and the big red fun bus . hear , hear ! Torquil Norman create all of those when he start the very successful public company , Bluebird Toys . he bring fun to million of child across the world and , in do so , he have the most wonderful life . the right hon . Member and his family will have much to celebrate in the come week and month remember he . all those associate with the toy industry will have be very sad to hear this news today . for month , one of my constituent in Wokingham have be try every morning at 6 be to book a driving test , but be leave wait in an online queue for half an hour with the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency system , which suspect that he be a bot . actual bot somehow get through , buy up test slot and sell they off at a premium . my constituent do everything right , but the system do not work for they . can we have a debate in Government time on how to address the frustrating shortage of drive test ? first , let I thank the hon . member for his tribute to Torquil Norman . I be sure that if the shadow Leader of the House be able to respond to his question , he would want to do so by thank he dearly for paint another lovely picture of his father . indicate assent . I do not realise that Torquil Norman create Bluebird Toys , and all of the toy that that involve , so I think all of we owe he a great debt for invent such fantastic toy . the hon . member raise an important issue about the DVSA on which we get many complaint . People be wait too long to get their drive test slot . I know that other colleague have raise that matter with I in the past , and will probably raise it with I today as well . perhaps they might club together to get a Backbench Business debate on this important matter . I be extremely relieved to see my constituent , Rebecca Burke , safely return to her family in Monmouthshire on Tuesday after her ordeal in America . I be sure that all of we across the House would like to wish she well after her detention at the border for 21 day due to a mix - up with her visa . although I be delighted that she be home , I be really disappointed and actually quite shocked to hear that she be transport to the airport in the USA in chain despite do absolutely nothing wrong and pose no risk . the family want I to convey my thank to all those at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and at the consulate who help to bring this awful ordeal to a close . I ask the Leader of the House to support I in secure a meeting between the Burke family and the Foreign Secretary so that they can feed back their difficult experience with US Immigration and Customs Enforcement to the fcdo and lesson can be learn . I be pleased to hear that my hon . friend ' s constituent , Rebecca Burke , have now safely return home and I be very sorry to hear of the experience that she suffer in the US . I be glad that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be able to help . the Foreign Secretary be in his place for the early part of her question , but he do not hear all of it . I will ensure that she get a meeting with the appropriate Minister . I join other in send my deep sympathy to the shadow Leader of the House for his loss . I recently attend the award for the Grimsby and Cleethorpes scout group , and the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) and I be glad to give up our Sunday afternoon to attend the event . when we go to such event , we can see not just how valuable it be for the young people concern , but how important it be that the adult and the scout leader give up their time to help develop the young people . I know that if I ask the Leader of the House for a debate on this matter in Government time , she will suggest that I go to the Backbench Business Committee . however , as a member of that Committee , I be aware of how heavy the demand be . therefore , I join the Chair of that Committee in ask the Leader of the House for more time , so that I will not have to wait too long for my scout debate . I join the hon . gentleman in thank the scout for their work and all the adult who support they . the scout be vital for our young people , and I thank he for make time on his weekend to support they . as ever , I hear the strong representation of the Backbench Business Committee . the Chair and I be due to meet again soon to discuss perhaps more creative way to find further slot . rise — order . we be expect an important statement at midday , so if member keep their question short and the Leader of the House provide snappy answer , we might get everyone in . like 1 % of the population , I suffer from coeliac disease , an autoimmune disease in which the gut attack itself if the sufferer eat gluten . there be no treatment other than a gluten - free diet . the cheap loaf of gluten - free bread can cost six time the price of one that contain gluten . despite that , prescription for gluten - free bread be be restrict across England by integrate care board , lead to coeliacs face economic hardship and put themselves at risk of cancer and osteoporosis . this must be reverse . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the availability of gluten - free prescription across England ? my hon . friend have make a strong case — I do not realise that gluten - free product be so expensive . he be right to point out that they be necessary for coeliac sufferer such as he . I be sure that that would make a good topic for debate . I recognise your request for brevity , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I offer my condolence and say how much I identify with the maxim " turn up at the finish line " , have stand eight time to get here and have be successful twice . give the countless family in my part of Somerset who have adopt or be special guardian to child and young people , many of whom be live with significant challenge and trauma stem from their treatment in early life , the adoption and special guardianship support fund be a lifeline for essential therapeutic support . I have write to the Minister , and I understand that application for therapy that start this financial year can carry on into the next one , but there be no news yet on the future of funding , leave many family in limbo . can we have a debate to enlighten we on when the Government will make an announcement on the fund , and how they propose to support adoptive family to ensure that they can access therapeutic support when it be need ? adoption support be important . the uncertainty about the fund have be raise with I as a constituency MP , so I be well aware of it . I will ensure that when I get a response about it , I will pass it on to the hon . Lady . let I start by extend my deep condolence to the shadow Leader of the House . clearly , his father be a remarkable man . stoke - on - Trent have a rich history reflect in the architecture find across our six proud town . as part of English Tourism Week , I be delighted to welcome colleague from the national lottery heritage fund to our mother town of Burslem , where we discuss to how unleash the potential of our beautiful building with the right support . we must safeguard our heritage building , so will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the regeneration of our town and how the Government can support they ? I be pleased to hear of the work in Stoke - on - trent to restore heritage building and my hon . friend ' s work with the national lottery heritage fund . it be vital that industrial heritage be also consider heritage . I will support he in raise these matter . the m5 motorway in Somerset be be close ever more frequently and for long duration . this cause great inconvenience to business and resident , occasionally gridlocke the town of Bridgwater . can we have a debate in Government time on the policy of National Highways for when and for how long it close our motorway ? I know how frustrating that kind of road closure can be on constituent and those travel . poorly plan roadwork and highway agency plan can be devastating . I will support he in raise these issue with Ministers and hopefully in the House . I recently visit the fantastic Tilehurst junior youth club in my constituency , and even enjoy a stint run the tuck shop . it be so important that people across our country have access to a safe place to play and socialise outside of school . will the Leader of the House arrange for a debate on the Government ' s plan for Young Futures hub and improvement to service for young people ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be commit to the Young Futures programme , which , as she will know , be progress well . I will ensure that the House be keep update on it ; that will give she a chance once again to praise the fantastic work of the youth club in her constituency . sincere condolence to the shadow Leader of the House on the loss of his father . mass deportation of illegal migrant and foreign criminal must be our ultimate policy objective . will it be logistically straightforward ? absolutely not . be it necessary ? absolutely , yes . it be mass deportation or a mass amnesty , and I choose deportation . will the Leader of the House commit to a debate in Government time on how we can deport the number require on a rapid timescale that be acceptable to the british people , who reasonably expect our border to be police and the law to be uphold ? I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that these matter be not as simple as he might suggest . the Government be absolutely committed to protect our border . in fact , we have return more illegal migrant than have be return in recent year , and the number be go up and up . we have introduce the Border Security Command , which be already take action at source , and we need to work internationally to ensure that people do not want to come here illegally in the first place . we must take a range of action ; present some false easy solution do not do the issue any good at all . access to justice be a real issue in Cornwall , which be in effect a legal aid desert . in my previous life , when I first come to Cornwall , I run an employment law clinic at Citizens Advice in Falmouth . Citizens Advice do great work , but it struggle with funding and recently have to stop its drop - in surgery . Cornwall need a law centre . many urban area have they , and I have willing volunteer . will the Leader of the House please ask the appropriate Justice Minister to meet I to discuss the route to get such a centre , and find the funding ? I will arrange a meeting for my hon . friend , who be right that the availability of law centre — I be lucky enough to have one in my constituency — be vital to ensure that people get the justice they deserve . follow Santander ' s disappointing decision to turn its back on Ilkley and close the bank branch there , Link have recommend that our town get a full banking hub , which I have long campaign for . that be welcome news , but it should not have take the last bank close for we to get one . meanwhile , in Keighley , bank branch after bank branch have close , but there be no sign of we get a banking hub . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on get banking hub open without our wait for an area ' s last bank branch to close ? will she ensure that banking hub service be accessible , with full cash access ? the hon . Member will know that in recent year — since long before we come to government — we have see a huge acceleration in the closure of bank on our high street because of bank ' change practice and decision . the Government be commit to bring in 350 banking hub . we have allocate 200 , and 100 be already open . I will ensure that he get an update on the banking hub for his constituency . pothole have plague motorist in Buckinghamshire for too long , damage car and make driver , pedestrian and cyclist less safe . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to deliver more than £ 20 million in funding to Buckinghamshire council to fix those pothole , and I be work hard to get labour councillor elect on 1 May to ensure that the investment deliver result . will my right hon . friend reaffirm the Government ' s commitment to our road infrastructure , and ensure that it keep get priority in Parliament ? fill our pothole be a really important action that the Government be take . we want to fill another 7 million pothole over the course of this Parliament . I be pleased that my hon . friend be work with her council , and with the councillor whom she be hope to get elect later this year , on get the pothole fix in her constituency . I value the comment of the shadow Leader of the House , and of my hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) . I offer my condolence , and my time , on a separate occasion , to discuss the idea for the future that the shadow Leader of the House set out . BT have threaten to close down the K6 telephone box in Sharrington , in my constituency , which be a vital lifeline for an area with a poor mobile signal . indeed , just a few week ago , an ambulance driver use the phone box to make an emergency call . last Friday , we rally 50 local to queue outside the phone box to make call and prove its importance to BT . will the Leader of the House arrange a debate in Government time about the importance of phone box to rural community , and the protection of vital rural service ? phone box remain important for many of our village and town across the country , as well as in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . he have take the opportunity this morning to mention the phone box in his constituency , and I will ensure that he get a good reply about it . many of my constituent , particularly in the parish of Willaston and the town of Nantwich , have be in touch about significant delay in receive mail from Royal Mail . they often go week without receive a single piece of mail , and then receive a whole stack of letter week later . as I be sure my right hon . friend appreciate , that result in my constituent miss important correspondence , include about hospital appointment . when might we have a debate on Royal Mail ' s performance ? I can absolutely identify with what my hon . friend describe because I have have many similar issue in my constituency . I know that there be systemic problem in Royal Mail to do with staff morale and system that it use , which mean that people do not get a service that they can rely on . I advise my hon . friend to raise that directly with Royal Mail — and perhaps with the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , as I do on behalf of my constituent , because the Committee hold regular accountability hearing with Royal Mail . may I , on behalf of my party , offer my condolence to the shadow Leader of the House on the loss of his dad ? my dad die 10 year ago , and there be not a day when I do not think about he . I be sure the hon . Member will be the same . the chinese Communist party ' s long - term strategy for Tibet through to 2049 involve tighten rule for religion , in order to deliberately suppress tibetan Buddhism and religious identity . the aim be to bring religion totally under the control of the state , to ensure that religious view and feeling be supplant by loyalty to chinese cultural nationalism . will the Leader of the House ask the Foreign Secretary to commit to raise with counterpart in China the urgent need for additional protection to safeguard the human right to freedom of religion or belief , and will she ask the Foreign Secretary to ensure that these concern remain central to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s diplomatic engagement with China ? those issue absolutely remain central to our diplomatic relation . the Foreign Secretary and the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , be here , and they will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s question . we stand firm on human right ; we make that very clear in our discussion with China , and with anybody else . we have a very important statement come in just one minute . final question : Chris Webb . the Blackpool pleasure beach in my constituency be name the good seaside park at the UK theme park award . world - class attraction such as the pleasure beach bring an estimate 23 million people to Blackpool last year . will the Leader of the House join I in praise the pleasure beach and all the attraction in Blackpool , and encourage everyone to have a staycation in the UK this year ? I can absolutely encourage everyone to go to Blackpool , have fish and chip on the promenade , and perhaps go on the Big One , which I be too scared to go on . I look forward to join my hon . friend there soon . I thank the Leader of the House for her response this morning . conflict in Gaza with the permission of the House , I shall make a statement about the conflict in Gaza . in January , I outline to the House the deal agree between Israel and Hamas . it be a moment of huge hope and relief . in the week that follow , hostage cruelly detain by Hamas be reunite with their family , and aid block by Israel finally flood into Gaza . a path out of this horrendous conflict appear open . it be therefore a matter of deep regret that I have to update the House today on a breakdown of the ceasefire and yet more bloodshed in Gaza . on the night of 18 March , Israel launch airstrike across Gaza . a number of Hamas figure be reportedly kill , but it have be report that over 400 Palestinians be kill in missile strike and artillery barrage . the majority of they be woman and child . this appear to have be the deadly single day for Palestinians since the war begin . this be an appalling loss of life , and we mourn the loss of every civilian . yesterday morning , a UN compound in Gaza be hit . I can confirm to the House that a british national be among the wounded . our priority be support they and their family at this time . Gaza have be the most dangerous place in the world to be an aid worker , and I share the outrage of the UN Secretary - General Guterres at this incident . the Government call for a transparent investigation , and for those responsible to be hold to account . the UK be work closely with partner , such as France and Germany , to send a clear message . we strongly oppose Israel ' s resumption of hostility . we urgently want to see a return to a ceasefire . More bloodshed be in no one ' s interest . Hamas must release all the hostage , and negotiation must resume . diplomacy be the one way to achieve security for both Israelis and Palestinians . the House will know that the ceasefire in Gaza have last for almost two month — the result of dogged effort by Egypt , Qatar and the United States . the deal reach in January see the nightmare of captivity for 30 hostage end , and the body of eight further victim of Hamas return to their love one . we all remember the joy of see Emily Damari reunite with her mother and family . desperately need aid begin to flow back into Gaza — food , medicine , fuel and tent . child in Gaza have respite from relentless fear . the severely injure could cross the border again for treatment . Palestinians have begin to return to their home , and to consider how to rebuild their life . in the first day of the ceasefire , the UK move swiftly to invest in the peace . we release £ 17 million in additional emergency humanitarian funding for the promise surge in aid . we bring our total support this year for Palestinians across the region to £ 129 million . we accelerate work on the pathway to reconstruction , support our arab partner ' very welcome recent initiative . we work at every level to support negotiation for a permanent ceasefire and the return of every single hostage in a back extension to phase one of the current deal . but negotiation have be gridlocke for several week . Hamas have be resist call for the release of further hostage in return for a long truce . israeli force do not begin to withdraw from the Philadelphi corridor as agree , and on 2 March , the israeli Government announce that they be block all further aid delivery until Hamas agree to their term . for week now , supply of basic good and electricity have be block , leave over half a million civilian once again cut off from clean drinking water and spark a 200 % surge in the price of some basic foodstuff — a boon to those criminal who use violence to control supply . as I tell the House on Monday , this be appalling and unacceptable . ultimately , of course , these be matter for the court , not government , to determine , but it be difficult to see how deny humanitarian assistance to a civilian population can be compatible with international humanitarian law . although it be important to say that I could have be a little clear in the House on Monday , our position remain that Israel ' s action in Gaza be a clear risk of breach international humanitarian law . the consequence of the ceasefire ' s breakdown be catastrophic . for the family and friend of the remain 59 hostage , include Avinatan or , the agony go on . Hamas ' s kidnapping of those people and treatment of they in captivity , the cruel theatre of their release , deprive they of food and basic right — those be act of despicable cruelty . Hamas must release they all now . palestinian civilian , who have already endure so much , now must fear a re - run and a return to day of death , deprivation and destruction . civilian have once again be issue with evacuation order by Israel . only 4 % of the United Nations flash appeal be fund — not even enough to get through to the end of this month . health centre have have to close , even as the devastated Gazan health service have to treat another surge of those wound in strike . Hamas can have no role in Gaza ' s future , but a collapse ceasefire will not bring the hostage home to their family , an endless conflict will not bring long - term security to Israel , and a deepening war will only set back the course of regional normalisation and risk further instability , shortly after the Houthis resume their unacceptable threat to shipping in the Red sea . since the renew outbreak of hostility , I have speak to Secretary Rubio , to EU High Representative Kallas and to UN emergency co - ordinator Tom Fletcher , and I will shortly speak to my israeli counterpart Gideon Sa ' ar and palestinian Prime Minister Mustafa . we and our partner need to persuade the party that this conflict can not be resolve by military mean . we want Israel and Hamas to re - engage with negotiation . we continue to condemn Hamas , of course , for their action on 7 October , their refusal to release the hostage , and their ongoing threat to Israel , but we be also resolute in call on Israel to abide by international law , lift the unacceptable restriction on aid and demand the protection of civilian . many month ago , only week into office , I conclude that there be a clear risk of Israel breach international humanitarian law in Gaza . it be that risk , which I first set out in the House back in September , that mean that the Government suspend relevant export licence for item for use by the Israel Defence Forces in military operation in Gaza . the action of last week only reinforce that conclusion . in the day and week ahead , we will redouble our effort to restore a ceasefire , but we will also continue to work with our partner on the security , governance and reconstruction arrangement . those issue be not go away . there remain no military solution to this conflict . a two - state solution remain the only path to a just and last peace . at this Dispatch Box in January I call the ceasefire deal " a glimmer of light in the darkness " . — [ Official Report , 16 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 511 . ] it feel like the darkness have return . former british hostage Emily Damari say that the resumption of fighting leave she heartbroken , crush and disappoint . I be sure that she speak for the whole House . but we must preserve hope for the sake of the remain hostage and their loved one , for the people of Gaza , and for the future of two people who have suffer so much for so long . we will keep strive for a return to the path to peace . I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . we all mourn the loss of innocent life in this appalling conflict . the death of the UN aid worker and the injury to a british national be tragic , and our sympathy and thought be with their family . will the Foreign Secretary provide an update on the direct engagement that he have have with key interlocutor in the region to ascertain the fact of what happen ? have he be update by the Government of Israel on their investigation ? the onward transition at the end of phase 1 of the ceasefire agreement be always go to be challenge . this be a difficult and fragile moment for the middle east , but several basic truth remain unchanged , include the urgent need to return to their love one the 59 hostage capture by Hamas terrorist during the atrocity of 7 October . that be vital for achieve a sustainable end to this horrendous conflict . the incredibly brave family of those hold hostage remain firmly in our thought , and we should be very clear that the onus be squarely on Hamas . Hamas could agree to release these hostage now and avert any escalation . this be the moment for the UK Government to show leadership with the international community and exert maximum pressure on Hamas to release these hostage . we should all fully understand who we be deal with here : a brutal Iranian - back terrorist organisation that seek the destruction of the world ' s only jewish state , use its own defenceless people as human shield and have ruthlessly eradicate fundamental freedom in Gaza . anyone who have read the shocking report from Lord Roberts on 7 October , commission by the all - party parliamentary group on UK - Israel , will have see the harrowing detail of the real - life consequence of Hamas ' s total disdain for human dignity , utter disregard for human life , visceral antisemitism and murderous intention : their organised brutality , murder , rape and torture , indiscriminately target baby , child , woman and the elderly . as the Prime Minister himself once say , Hamas bear responsibility . be that still the Prime Minister ' s and the Government ' s position ? it be abundantly clear that Iranian - back Hamas can have no role in the future of Gaza , and we have raise this many time in the House . what exactly be the british Government do at this moment in time to bear down on Hamas and work with partner to put an end to this brutal regime ? what assessment have the Foreign Secretary make of the capability of Hamas and the ongoing threat that the terrorist pose to peace and stability in the region ? do the Government support the US proposal for secure the release of hostage ? what be his vision of the next step ? do he believe that phase 2 of the ceasefire remain within reach , or be he consider alternative solution ? there be too much at stake for Britain to be a bystander . we must be a proactive player with involvement . the Foreign Secretary mention his talk with France and Germany , but what discussion be he have with Egypt and other regional partner ? we need Israel to continue see the UK as a trusted partner . the strength of Britain ' s relationship with Israel also matter for our wide influence in the middle east . if we undermine our relationship and influence with Israel , we also lose influence across the middle east . careless comment do not help , include the Foreign Secretary ' s remark in this House on Monday , for which he have be rebuke by the Prime Minister . will he apologise to the House and to Israel ? the Foreign Secretary ' s focus should be on secure the release of the 59 remain hostage , and this House should be unite in that . those hostage have be hold by Hamas since the atrocity of 7 October , and their release be important for a sustainable end to this conflict . let we be clear : Hamas have no respect for international law , human life or human right . do the Foreign Secretary agree that we must be unequivocal that there be no moral equivalence between Hamas and the democratically elect Government of Israel ? we must have no more poorly judge decision on arm export design to placate Government Back Benchers . on the question of aid to Gaza — [ interruption . ] on the question of aid to Gaza , which government back Benchers would perhaps like to take seriously , I have say from the Dispatch Box that we expect detail about the Government ' s practical response on the ground . how be the Government work to unblock the situation , and what be happen to british aid that be already in the region or en route ? what discussion have the Foreign Secretary have with israeli counterpart in recent day ? what be his assessment of the report of Hamas stockpile aid and the impact this have on distribution to civilian in need ? have he hold discussion recently with the Red Cross on its important work on hostage release and aid delivery ? could we be do more to support the work of the International Committee of the Red Cross ? on the region more broadly , as the parliamentary commission report make crystal clear , we can not ignore the role of the regime in Tehran , which have its fingerprint over so much of the inhumane suffering and bloodshed that we see today . we need action to deter Iran ' s malign agenda , so what option be on the table for tackle Iran and the flow of weapon and support to its terrorist proxy ? what hard power option be the Foreign Secretary consider in respect of the Houthis ? I do not receive an answer to that in the House on Monday . I also ask the Foreign Secretary on Monday whether Britain be in lockstep with the United States , but he do not answer that . now be the time for he to provide clarity and clear answer . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady , and let I make clear regard the charity worker who be injure , that of course our ambassador and the Foreign Office be in touch with his family . as she would expect , we have make representation to the israeli Government , and I will be speak to the israeli Foreign Minister in the come hour . the right hon . Lady talk about Hamas , and I have say at this Dispatch Box that the scene of those young man in balaclavas with Kalashnikovs parade hostage be obscene , and I condemn they . I say in January that we would continue to stand with the hostage family , and we will . there be still dozen of family wait , hope , pray that their love one can return , but the right hon . Lady will also have see overnight that many of those family be say that this be not the way to bring they home . they fear that as a consequence of this resume action , their love one will perish , and I think that the tone of some of her remark do not sit with what I see come out of Israel at this time . no one could not be absolutely touch and affect by the gaunt and malnourished hostage parade around in a sick propaganda exercise . we all condemn Hamas . the right hon . Lady ask what we be do . what we be do , and what the previous Government do , be support the Palestinian Authority with reform . there have to be an alternative to Hamas , and that alternative be the Palestinian Authority . we must work with it ; we have to give people hope and prospect that be not about terrorism , and that be about support Prime minister Mustafa in all his effort . that be what we have be do , and why we have be work particularly with the Arab Quint . she ask about how we be work with partner in the area , and there be to be a conference , a gathering , in Egypt this weekend . it have be postpone , but it will be important that we attend that gathering , and work with our arab partner . I put on record our support for Egypt and Qatar in their conversation with Hamas . she know that we do not talk to Hamas , but we do work with those partner who can . the right hon . Lady ask about future operation in the Red sea , and she know well that I would never comment from the Dispatch Box on operational issue in the Red sea . she ask I if there be any moral equivalence between Hamas and the israeli Government . of course there be no moral equivalence between Hamas and the israeli Government , and none of we have ever suggest that that be the case . she ask , rightly , about the role of Iran . she be right about the malign affect of Iran in the region , and we will act to ensure that it do not get the nuclear capability that it be seek to secure — I discuss that issue with Secretary of State Rubio and my counterpart in France and Germany . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his passionate and articulate plea for peace from the Dispatch Box . in do so he speak for we all , and I know that he have witness the suffering and feel it very deeply , as we all do . the renew bombing in Gaza can not be justify , the renew siege of Gaza can not be justify , and it be difficult to see how either of those thing be compatible with international law . it will be for a court to decide , and there will be a reckoning . the question , however , be what be go to happen now , because whatever it be that the british Government be do in the region , it be clearly not work . what be plan b ? now that the israeli Government have abandon the fragile course of peace , what be plan b for the west bank , which still face the threat of annexation ? follow report that the strike may have american endorsement , what be plan b when it come to unite our international ally , to make sense of this senseless violation of the peace process ? we must ensure that this be meet not just with word , no matter how passionate or articulate . we have to do something internationally and with our ally . it be time to stop talk about it , and to do something . I be grateful to my right hon . friend , and I know that she be in the region recently , discuss these very same issue at the Knesset . I understand that the US envoy , Steve Witkoff , be fly into the region as we speak , and I hold out hope that we can once more get a ceasefire that get we to the plan , which be to the end of the Passover period — I can not give up hope on that . she say that we must have more than word , and she know , as I do , that the business of diplomacy be word , conversation , and use our influence to bring this about . that be why we be work closely with the United States , with our arab partner and , of course , with our E3 partner , in particular , and the European Union at this time , and I will do everything I can to get we back to that ceasefire . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . Israel ' s resumption of its military campaign in Gaza be heartbreaking for all Palestinians , for the remain hostage and their family , and for the world . for two month , the fragile ceasefire provide space for the release of hostage and , until early March , the flooding of Gaza with vital aid to alleviate the suffering of Palestinians . the resumption of fighting now threaten the life of israeli hostage still hold in captivity by Hamas , and of Palestinians , who have already see their home and community devaste by 15 month of war . a new ceasefire must be secure as soon as possible . to that end , what discussion have the Foreign Secretary have with the israeli Government on rapidly recommit to a ceasefire ? even before the resumption of military operation , the israeli Government have cut aid route into Gaza , as well as the supply of electricity . that be illegal and wrong , contravene Israel ' s obligation under international law . in this House on Monday , and today , the Foreign Secretary state that Israel ' s aid blockade be a breach of international law . will he outline what action he be take to ensure that there be consequence to breach international law ? Hamas must now immediately and unconditionally release the remain hostage , the treatment of whom while in captivity have be despicable . we be also deeply concern by report that a british bomb disposal expert have be injure in an explosion at a UN facility in the strip , and our thought be with their family . will the Foreign Secretary update the House on his safety and condition ? arab state have a vital role to play in support the transition back to a state of ceasefire . their plan for the reconstruction of Gaza also provide a pragmatic proposal for rebuild the strip , particularly when compare with the reckless proposal put forward by Trump , who describe his intention to remove Palestinians from Gaza . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that he have engage closely with arab partner in the region around their plan for reconstruction ? as conflict return to Gaza , we must also give Palestinians hope , and show they that we support their right to statehood . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the UK must now move to officially recognise a state of Palestine , as a vital part of a two - state solution that offer dignity and security to Palestinians and Israelis ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady . I can assure she that , since the outbreak of renew hostility , I have speak to Secretary of State Rubio and to EU High Representative Kaja Kallas , and we be closely co - ordinating . just last Friday I meet the emergency relief co - ordinator , Tom Fletcher , in New York , where we discuss the issue in Gaza . of course , I expect to speak to my counterpart Gideon Sa ' ar , and to palestinian Prime Minister Mustafa shortly . we be work particularly closely with our E3 partner , and the hon . Lady will have see that there be a closed meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Tuesday , at which we make strong representation . she will also be aware that these issue be discuss , and she will have see the communiqu é that flow from the G7 Foreign Ministers meeting last week in Canada . as I have now say on 10 occasion since September , Israel ' s action in Gaza be at clear risk of breach international humanitarian law . the Government have be clear all along that we be not an international court , and we could not make a judgment as to whether Israel have breach international humanitarian law , but I make a decision back in September , base on whether there be a clear risk , and for that reason we have suspend those sale to Gaza , and they will continue to be suspend . on the british charity worker who have be wound , we be of course in contact with his family and I intend to keep the House update . I thank the Foreign Secretary for all the work that he and his team be do behind the scene on this horrific issue . it be quite shocking that the shadow Foreign Secretary appear unable to say the word " palestinian " . as someone who use to be an international aid worker and be in Gaza , let I say that the life of palestinian aid worker be every bit as valuable as the life of international aid worker . More than 170 palestinian child have be kill this week alone , and yesterday the israeli Defence Minister threaten the ethnic cleansing of Gaza — [ interruption . ] Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to set the record straight . order . I will assist the shadow Foreign Secretary once the hon . member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) have finish her question . please continue . yesterday , the israeli Defence Minister threaten the ethnic cleansing of Gaza . what action be the Foreign Secretary take to stop that and to hold the Government of Israel accountable for their action ? humanitarian aid should never be use as a political tool and Israel must restart the aid immediately . a lot of diplomatic activity be go on at this time . as I say , Steve Witkoff , the US special envoy to the middle east , have fly into the area and we be in touch with the US . I be work closely with the E3 and the EU . in fact , I will be speak very shortly to my french counterpart . we have not give up hope . I sense that there have be a loss of hope that we can get back to the ceasefire from hon . member in the Chamber , but I tell they now : this Foreign Secretary have not give up hope that we can get back to the ceasefire . it be my job to try and do the good to deliver that , and that be what I intend to do in the come hour . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be the point of order absolutely relevant right now ? I seek your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on the suggestion — a misrepresentation — that I have not speak about the Palestinian Authority in this House , because I have do so from the Dispatch Box on a number of occasion . order . this be a very sensitive and important debate . we need to ensure that language be temperate and respectful at all time . our constituent be watch , as indeed be the world , so we must ensure that we in no way inadvertently misrepresent our colleague . the right hon . Lady ' s point be note . we will now continue because we have a lot of people to get through . I call the Father of the House . I agree with everything the Foreign Secretary have say , in particular that we have to give hope to the palestinian people . to be fair to the israeli Government position , Hamas could solve the problem now by release the hostage . have say that , do the Foreign Secretary agree that be quite wrong for any member of the israeli Government to say that the Gazan people could rise up against Hamas ? if they do that , they would be torture , at good , and probably kill . the people of Gaza be victim of Hamas as much as anybody , and it be quite wrong for the israeli Government to inflict collective judgment on the people of Gaza : that will bring death , destruction , more radicalism and we will never get the hostage home . the Father of the House speak with tremendous authority . as I have say , none of we stand with Hamas ; we all want to see Hamas remove , but an alternative to Hamas have to be provide . it seem to I that the alternative be the Palestinian Authority and work alongside people to undermine Hamas . we also have to see the end of Hamas . there be way to bring that about — we do it in Northern Ireland , with de - arming — but they be well do through diplomatic and political solution , not military endeavour . the double standard and injustice we be witness on the international stage be truly appalling . it be obvious that Israel be break international law , as every serious legal expert on international law have point out . it be shameful , frankly , that the Government refuse to state that about Israel but will rightly do so about Russia ' s violation in Ukraine . I say to the Foreign Secretary that the concern and outrage that he express at the Dispatch Box be not end the bloodshed . when will we get the scale of sanction on Israel that its war crime demand ? the conflict have go on for 526 painful day . I recognise the strength of feeling after more than 49 , 000 people have be kill in Gaza — a staggering number of people . my hon . friend would not expect I to comment on any further sanction from the Dispatch Box , but of course we keen those issue under close review . it have be estimate that in the opening salvos of this appalling aggression , the Israelis kill 80 palestinian child in the space of 51 minute . there have be report of child go through amputation without anaesthetic because of the blockade , and that leaflet be drop across Gaza last night threaten extermination . surely even for the Government , the Israelis have now cross a monstrous red line . the Foreign Secretary talk about " equivalence " . I be assume that he believe that the palestinian civilian and their life be equivalent to the life of israeli citizen , and be also equivalent to the life of ukrainian citizen . this morning , Ministers be on the airwave offer british troop to keep the peace between Ukraine and Russia . what be it about the palestinian people that mean they be less deserving of that kind of protection ? a whole generation of Gazans be grow up in the most unbearable condition , and I know that the right hon . Gentleman have be a champion for those child — child who we see rummage around in the rubble ; child who be now orphan ; and the many thousand of child in Gaza who be out of school . it be absolutely right that he bring their plight to the attention of the House . but the way forward that we be show back at the beginning of January be through a ceasefire , negotiation to get into phase 2 and 3 of that ceasefire , and a horizon for a two - state solution . that be what I will continue to fight for . I think we all share the Foreign Secretary ' s shock , anger and frustration at the breakdown of the ceasefire and the death that we be see in Gaza . as today ' s debate show , word matter . I want to follow up on the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , give that we be now hear report of ground activity in Gaza , lead by israeli force . Israel Katz , the Defence Minister , claim that the " evacuation " of Gaza would resume and he be threaten " total devastation " . those be not the action of a Government who want peace ; they be the action of an increasingly authoritarian Government who be more interested in their own political survival than in the survival of any innocent civilian , be they palestinian or israeli . this be not what the hostage family want to see , and we should speak for they as much as for the innocent civilian in Gaza and the Palestinians whose life be be lose . for the avoidance of doubt , will the Foreign Secretary be clear that we do not agree with but condemn the word of Israel Katz , as they be not go to bring forward the ceasefire or uphold international law if they be leave unchallenged ? I do condemn those word and I would ask Minister Katz , who be very experienced , to withdraw they . the language that we use in this conflict matter . we know what have happen and the Foreign Secretary have remind we today : for week , supply of basic good and electricity have be block . to say that Israel " risk " breach international law for have do that be to say that this country do not see those act as a prima facie breach of international law — that be how it will be hear in Tel Aviv . be that really the Government ' s position ? the Government ' s position be base on the law that be set out in our export licensing regime , which the right hon . Gentleman support in the last Parliament . the language of that legislation , if he look at it closely , state that I , as a Minister and on behalf of the Government , have to make an assessment of clear risk . that be the language that I have use 10 time in this House since September . I stand by it , and so should he . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and for his absolute commitment to the end of the fighting in Gaza , the return of the hostage and , ultimately , a two - state solution . I be contact by constituent of all background , and of all faith and none ; they stop I in the street . they see the mutilate body of baby and the consequence of the blockade on humanitarian aid , and they say to I , " what be this Government do about it ? what be you do about it ? " will he say to my constituent now what action the British Government will take in response to Israel ' s action in Gaza and the west bank ? let I make it clear that when my hon . friend talk about the horror in Gaza , she should reassure her constituent that the United Kingdom announce £ 129 million of funding for the occupy territory just in the last year , which include £ 41 million for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ; that we be very clear that humanitarian aid should not be use as a tool ; and that UK support have mean that more than half a million people have receive essential healthcare , 647 , 000 people have receive food , and 284 , 000 people have improve access to water , sanitation and hygiene as a result of the british taxpayer . in term of what we be do , I have be in this House for 25 year . my hon . friend know that this be about diplomacy . I wish that I could switch this off from this Dispatch Box . she know full well that I can not do that , but what I can do be engage in the issue in detail . it be a hard grind . I know that this be hard for many in this House , but that be how we bring about a ceasefire . the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , mention the all - party parliamentary group ' s report on the atrocity commit on 7 October 2023 , which be brilliantly research by Lord Roberts and a whole series of different individual . the document be almost 500 page long and contain the evidence of what happen not only on that day , but subsequently . I commend it to the Foreign Secretary to read , because in future it will be the definitive history of what happen on 7 October . will he therefore look at the fact that 59 hostage be still in captivity ? it be understand that only 24 of they be alive — probably only barely alive — and 35 be dead . the reality be that there be an opportunity for the deal , as propose by the United States , for a ceasefire to continue , for the release of the hostage and for Hamas to lay down their arm . that be still open to the terrorist in Hamas to take up . if they do so , we can then all unite across the House and call for the end of death and destruction . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for mention those hostage . the question now be : how do we get those remain hostage home , and be the action that we have see in the last two to three day likely to bring they home or to see more of they perish ? I want to stand with the many hostage family who say , " can we give the talk a chance to succeed ? " , because I think military action be unlikely to bring they home . we have all be absolutely horrified to see the devastating impact of Israel ' s military airstrike . the Foreign Secretary rightly say that this be an appalling and unacceptable loss of life and that our Labour Government oppose the resumption of hostility . do he agree that there be no military solution to this conflict ? let I state again : there be no military solution to this conflict . it be a conflict that have go on for 17 month — have there be a military solution , it would have be find by now . the way forward be a political process and get back to those ceasefire negotiation . the inhumanity and depravity that we witness on Tuesday defy belief , but it show that after 17 month , Israel understand fully what impunity be , because Netanyahu shatter that fragile ceasefire , kill 400 civilian shelter in tent — mostly baby and toddler — know that there would be absolutely no consequence for his action . can the Foreign Secretary think of any other conflict at any other point in history when the UK would have accept one of its close ally and military partner designate baby and toddler as legitimate military target ? the whole House will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s language . I think the whole House also understand that this be one of the most complex of atrocity . there be atrocity on both side of this conflict ; I just remind he of the scene of those murder horrendously on 7 October . what we need now be more light and less heat . this ceasefire must be desperately salvage for the 59 hostage — they and their family have live through hell for 530 day now — and for the innocent people of Gaza , who need aid , safety and security and have themselves live through hell in that time . I worry that Hamas state that they want to repeat the action of 7 October . they be commit only to endless war . what can this Government do to ensure that they have no role in the future of Gaza ? report have come in that Hamas have now start fire rocket into Israel and siren be at this time sound in Tel Aviv . I condemn Hamas ' s rocket attack . I want to reiterate that the only way through this be to get back to a ceasefire . it be unacceptable that israeli civilian be run for cover and that palestinian civilian be find that the casualty be rise . there can be no place for Hamas in the future of Gaza , which be why we be do everything to help the reform of the Palestinian Authority ; we believe that they must play a role in Gaza ' s governance in the month and year ahead . despite a huge investment in our relationship with Israel over so many year , we appear to be reduce to the position of spectator on a touchline , shout at the player and be largely ignore . to what extent do the Secretary of State believe that our lack of leverage — if any — be a consequence of policy decision take in Washington ? I think it be clear that the effort of US envoy Steve Witkoff and President Trump bring we to a place where we have a ceasefire . sometimes it can feel futile ; diplomacy can feel very hard . the word of parliamentarian can feel like they have no effect , but everything that every single one of we as member of Parliament do in those 17 month also lead to that ceasefire in January . we wish that we could have bring it about soon , and now we must act to get back to that ceasefire as quickly as possible . it be obvious that say that we strongly oppose hostility and that we be appal by Israel ' s action be have absolutely no effect on Netanyahu , who say of the death of 400 Palestinians — most of whom be woman and child — that it be " only the beginning " . it be not right that the ordinary people of Palestine should suffer because of the action of Hamas . do the Foreign Secretary agree that we now need to send a strong message to Israel and go far , perhaps by suspend all arm licence to Israel and recognise the state of Palestine ? we be three day into a resumption of fighting . that be three day too long , and I have lament the loss of life numerous time already in the Chamber , include in my statement . however , three day mean that there be more diplomacy that we can deploy to get that ceasefire back , and that be what I intend to do over the come hour and day . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . it be never easy to come to the Chamber and make a statement on an issue as complex as this one . we all watch with horror as israeli prisoner be release — not release in a sombre , dignified way , but parade about as an example of the control that Hamas have . as far as Hamas be concern , those prisoner be not human being ; instead , they be trophy of abuse and hate . those scene be etch into the mind of people across the world . will the Secretary of State confirm that , now as much as ever , Israel must show her strength and her friend , and show Hamas to be the murderous scum that they be ? will he reaffirm his pledge to support those who stand against the evil personify by the Hamas terrorist ? I be very grateful for what the hon . Gentleman have say . once again from this Dispatch Box , I condemn Hamas , condemn their activity , and condemn they for not release those hostage . that be the way out of this : release the hostage , let we get back to a political process and a ceasefire , and stop fire rocket into Israel . I thank the Foreign Secretary and his team for what I know be personal diplomatic effort to play the UK Government ' s part in make sure that we can return to a ceasefire . however , in the past few day , hundred more woman and child have be kill in Gaza . we have now have confirmation from the Foreign Secretary that a british national UN aid worker have be wound , and aid continue to be block . for Palestinians , hope be move far away . will the Foreign Secretary far reiterate his commitment to the Government ' s diplomatic effort , and will he also give we a sense of what the UK Government be do at this moment — in which there be such darkness for the palestinian people when they think about what may be come in the come day — so that we can quickly return , not only to a ceasefire , but to long - term hope for that region ? my hon . Friend ask what we be do . I refer she to the communiqu é that my G7 partner and I release , which contain a lengthy section on the situation in Gaza , discuss it with seven of our close partner . I then fly to New York to meet Tom Fletcher to discuss the situation on the ground . I meet our colleague in the European Union , Kaja Kallas , just this week to discuss these very issue , and I know that she intend to be in the region to discuss those issue face to face with israeli counterpart . my hon . friend will have see the work of our UN ambassador , Barbara Woodward ; there be a closed session at the UN , during which these very same issue be of course discuss with intensity . I want to reassure my hon . friend that all effort be be make , and of course we be support the reform of the Palestinian Authority . that be why I will be speak to Prime Minister Mustafa a little later today . it be a tragic fact that wherever they occur , military conflict result in the death of innocent civilian , among they many child — we witness this day in , day out on our tv screen . Israel have an absolute right to take action to recover the hostage , but I agree with the Foreign Secretary that the continue bombardment of Gaza will not achieve that of itself . do he agree that one thing it do achieve be to risk radicalise the young generation to become the Hamas supporter of the future ? that be a huge concern , because we want to provide hope for those people , and we want to provide an alternative to Hamas . I repeat that there have be 17 month of bombardment , and if that be go to work , it would have work . it have not work , and go back to that mean — as night follow day — that at the end of any military exercise , Hamas will still be there and we will still come back to a political process . let we continue with the political process and the ceasefire talk now ; let we extend phase 1 to the end of the Ramadan - Passover season , and let we work hard to get to phase 2 . as the Foreign Secretary mention , the ceasefire provide a glimmer of hope for the innocent civilian flee the constant bombardment and bloodshed , and for the innocent hostage wait desperately to be reunite with their family . for Israel to breach that ceasefire be indefensible — the targeting of civilian and civilian infrastructure should not be justify under any circumstance . I thank the Foreign Secretary for the work he be do and the personal effort he be lead behind the scene , include on the recent statement by the UK , german and french Foreign Ministers . as he know , leadership require honesty with our friend and tell thing how they be . will he commit to the UK show leadership in provide international clarity to end this cycle of violence , and clarity on the really serious issue of international law breach ? I commend my hon . friend for bring her moral clarity to the Chamber this afternoon . of course I can confirm that we will continue to do all we can , and we stand by the judgment that we make back in September when we assess that there be a clear risk of a breach of humanitarian law . Israel be commit war crime in Gaza — block the entry of humanitarian aid , cut electricity that be essential for drink water , the forced displacement of civilian , and now indiscriminate bombing that be kill and maim many , many child . those be not just clear risk of a breach of humanitarian law ; they be clear breach , and it be just not enough to say that we do not like it . I want to ask the Secretary of State a very specific question : have he explicitly ask the israeli Government whether any UK - make arm or arm component be use in the mass air strike in recent day that break the ceasefire and have cause untold suffering to civilian ? in make our assessment of a clear risk of a breach of humanitarian law , we suspend arm sale to Israel , and I stand by that decision . of the 170 child kill in Israel ' s deadly day of bombing in Gaza on Tuesday , three of they be brother . they be son of Karam Tafeek Hameid : Hassan , who be nine , Mohammad , who be eight , and Aziz , who be just five . their father tell the BBC : " they use to play around , have fun … they want to be doctor , teacher . " I be also the father of three son , and it disgust I that Israel ' s action seem to treat palestinian child ' s live as somehow more expendable or less precious than those of israeli child . be it not time that we have a diplomatic coalition of the willing — maybe start with the E3 country of the UK , France and Germany — to call out Israel ' s appal crime in Gaza , not just through word but through action ? as the father of an adopt child , I feel personally the plight of the many , many child in Gaza who have be orphan , and who be subject to exploitation as a result of the fact that they now have no parent . it break my heart that more horror could have be deploy against those who be now injure or bereft — who have lose their parent — so I understand the strength of my hon . friend ' s feel . that be why I be do all I can , particularly with E3 partner , to try to halt this behaviour . have the Government receive any indication or form any view about what the current israeli Government would do if — admittedly against all expectation — Hamas be to release all the hostage forthwith ? that be a very good question , and it be certainly a matter I have discuss with the United States envoy , Steve Witkoff . indeed , I have discuss it with the israeli Government . the right hon . Gentleman will know that there be a lot of politic in Israel , and it be my sincere hope that these judgment be not be guide by political calculation when they cut to the core of human life . I say to those in Israel : listen to the hostage ' family and listen to the way out of this . let we get back to a ceasefire , because I be quite sure that at the end of any military exercise , the risk be that few hostage will be alive . either way , the israeli Government will have to get back to negotiation , because military endeavour will not see the end of Hamas . I think we have all be shock and horrify to see the escalation in Gaza over the past few day . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his word today . what work be he do with the international community and directly with the israeli Government to lift the blockade on aid and ensure that it can get to the palestinian people , particularly give the escalation we have see in recent day ? my hon . friend be right . we have to lift the blockade on aid in particular , and that be why we have increase our funding at this time . we will be work closely with partner in the region to get that aid in . let I also take this opportunity to say that I remember meet the family of three british worker kill in the World Central Kitchen attack : John Chapman , James Kirby and James Henderson . it be nearly a year since that attack , and their family want and deserve justice . there be many other family and many Palestinians who have lose love one , with more than 350 aid worker kill in this conflict . we can not see the continued killing of aid worker in any conflict , and we condemn it in this House . I begin with a quote : " annihilate , smash , eradicate , erase , crush , shatter , burn , be cruel , punish , ruin , crush . annihilate ! " that be the genocidal voice of the israeli Government as post on x only last night by Itamar Ben - Gvir as he be reappointe as a Cabinet Minister . the Foreign Secretary recognise this week that Israel be in breach of international law . what further evidence do the Prime Minister need to recognise that , and for the UK Government to end their complicity in these crime by stop support for the israeli Government commit atrocity against the palestinian people ? if those be the word that be use last night , and I have not see they all , then I condemn they categorically from this Dispatch Box . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his update . what we be see be clearly appalling . the signal come from Defence Minister Katz be absolutely clear : the israeli Government seek the total destruction of Gaza and they see the occupation of west bank as their objective . the leverage over Netanyahu ' s Government be from Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , so my question be simple . other than once again review all the arm licence , and perhaps withdraw they , and put in place sanction against Israel , what leverage do the UK Government have over Israel in this circumstance ? I can not comment on future sanction designation , but I refer my hon . friend to the sanction I announce back in October raise concern in particular about settlement and settler violence , particularly in the west bank . I condemn the expansion . we have see more expansion this year than in any other year . I want to reassure he that we keep sanction closely under review . million around the world see in real time last night the destruction of life , the loss of child ' s live , more destruction and the israeli attempt to annex northern Gaza , if not the whole of Gaza . that be clearly what the whole agenda be about . Israel continue to commit war crime through the denial of food , water and electricity to the people of Gaza . will the British Government confirm that they be in breach of international law ? secondly , will we cease all military co - operation with Israel , include arm supply and the use of RAF Akrotiri as a staging point for the delivery of weapon ? I condemn any attempt to annex Gaza or the west bank . I know that the right hon . Gentleman have raise this issue in the past . it would not be appropriate for I to comment on operational military matter , but I have be absolutely clear about our assessment . under the legislation that he and I support when it be put through this House under the last government , the assessment be about there be " a clear risk " of a breach of international humanitarian law . I remind the House gently , as a lawyer , that that assessment of a clear risk be a low standard , but on the assessment that I have see and continue to see , that be my assessment . I therefore think the right hon . Gentleman should be comfort that we be not assist in what we be see in Gaza . may I correct my right hon . friend when he use the word " both side " , since neither the israeli Government nor Hamas represent the interest of the palestinian people ? we need to recognise that they do not have the voice necessary to bring they the protection that they need . however , I want to raise the definition of genocide . many time , my right hon . friend have rightly say from the Dispatch Box that it be for the court to determine whether or not a genocide have be commit . can he say what effort he have make to ask the court to make such a ruling ? as my hon . friend probably know , I meet from time to time with those who lead our international humanitarian law architecture , include the International Criminal Court in particular and the International Court of Justice . these be constitutional matter for they , and we must stand by the separation of power , and therefore it be right that they get on and do their proper work . we as politician make our judgment , but we be not court . we can not pronounce that from this Dispatch Box — certainly not on behalf of a Government . in a free democracy , Back Benchers be of course free to say whatever they feel in this House , and that be proper , but speak on behalf of a government , it must be right that court make these determination . the late scene come out of Gaza be truly horrifying . unicef say that the report kill early this week of more than 130 child would be the large single - day child death toll in the past year . as a mam and a mamgu — and just as a human being , actually — I find that truly abhorrent . be the Minister comfortable with the possibility of UK arm be use by Israel against child and , if not , will he end , not postpone , all arm sale immediately ? I refer the hon . Lady to what I have already say , to my statement back in September and to my reassurance that we be absolutely not in the business at the moment of sell arm that could be use in Gaza under our licensing decision — save , of course , for the decision we make on F - 35s . that be because , in look at the supply chain and recognise risk and conflict in other part of the world , include in the Euro - Atlantic , we have to make some serious judgment . fail to act in the face of Israel break the ceasefire in such a violent manner have consequence : it undercut moderate voice in Israel , damage the UK ' s reputation internationally , and compromise our support for international law and the rule of law . will the Foreign Secretary look again at Government policy on recognition , sanction , trade and arm supply while the atrocity continue against palestinian civilian ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the issue of recognition , which I know be dear to he and other in this House . it be a serious issue . he know that recognition , in and of itself , do not deliver a two - state solution . he know that we want a two - state solution and the recognition of a palestinian state , but that be well do as part of a process that actually get we to two state . he will recognise that the decision by other partner to move to recognition have not alleviate the suffering before our eye , which be why there must be a careful balance . I recognise that different government and Members will come to different judgment , but I be hold out for two state — include an actual state for the palestinian people , which be a just cause — and not just for a symbolic act . along with a billion Muslims around the world , I begin my fast on Tuesday morning , have take some food and water , with the scream of 400 innocent man , woman and child ring in my ear , as they be burn alive in their makeshift tent . I object to the resumption of the conflict and the cessation of the peace deal . the Israelis have continue to kill hundred of people , include freeze baby , and to proceed with the Gazafication of the west bank through the removal of 40 , 000 people . the Minister will be aware of the peace deal that be available in May 2024 . accord to President Biden , the hostage be not a priority for the Israelis — a sentiment that be echo just the other day by the Hostages and Missing Families Forum , which accuse Mr Netanyahu of " complete deception " , and say that " the israeli Government have choose to abandon the hostage . " the fact be that the Foreign Secretary be aware of all this , as we continue to provide Israel with military support and the use of our air base in Cyprus , and to give it moral , economic and political support . I hope that he take my sincere question as it be mean . he have speak passionately about his heritage and his ancestor , who be shackle in the chain of slavery . to unshackle his own chain , will he immediately cease all arm licence ? despite the £ 6 . 1 billion - worth of economic tie between Israel and the UK , will he impose economic sanction , and put in place a viable process for recognise the state of Palestine ? the hon . Gentleman bring powerful rhetoric to the House this afternoon . notwithstanding the horror of the conflict that have begin , we be three day into it . in the end , it be the ceasefire that will alleviate the suffering . it be my job to use all endeavour to get back to that ceasefire . that be my job , and that be what I intend to do . in recent week , I have hear my constituent express their relief , but also their fear that this exact moment would come . I thank the Foreign Secretary for all the work that he have be do to secure a last peace , and I be glad to hear he speak of the need to send a clear message to Israel that the resumption of airstrike be unacceptable , but I worry that this message will be hear only if it be convey through both word and action . can he reassure my constituent that he be look at what further action may be need , include on sanction , to get back on the path to peace ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her remark . I can not comment from the Dispatch Box on further action or sanction ; I just pray in aid what I have already say about diplomatic effort . I hope we can see the resumption of a ceasefire as soon as possible . all power to US envoy Steve Witkoff in the come day , as he seek to use US influence to bring that to pass . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for have make time to meet I , so that I could share some of the concern outline by many people in Newcastle - under - Lyme . nobody have a monopoly on decency and compassion ; some member of this House ought to keep that in mind . the scene from Gaza on our tv screen have be beyond horrify . the breaking of the ceasefire have see more innocent people kill . without question , we need all hostage to be release , and we need this war to end now . what specific discussion have the Foreign Secretary have with his counterpart in Saudi Arabia , Egypt , Jordan and the rest about the noble aim of save the life of innocent people , and deliver the long overdue two - state solution that we desperately need ? I meet many partner at the G20 a few week ago , and as my hon . friend will know , I have also speak to many partner , particularly from the Arab Quint , on the phone . I suspect that I will be in the region in the come week as a consequence of what we be now see . this destruction and kill during the holy month of Ramadan be horrific and inhumane . yesterday , with colleague from this House , I meet palestinian student study in the UK . one do not know if her family member be alive . another could not attend because she have just hear that her father have be kill the night before . we must ensure that the international community work together to outline the consequence of the attack for the israeli Government . can the Secretary of State confirm that the UK Government will abide by any International Court of Justice ruling regard breach of international humanitarian law in the region ? I reassure my hon . friend that , yes , we will . over 400 people have be kill , the majority of whom be child . aid supply have be block and aid worker kill , and the rhetoric from Israeli Ministers be get bad . all this have happen under a ceasefire . I know these matter be complex , but at what point do we change our posture towards the israeli Government ? when we be talk about Israel , we should remember that we stand alongside the israeli people at this time , and we think of the many hostage who be underground and in desperate condition in Gaza . Israel be a democracy , which be why we see people take to the street and make their voice hear . we see a heated debate in Israel as the good way forward . yesterday , the International Development Committee return from Geneva follow our inquiry into international humanitarian law . the message be very clear : the IHL framework be robust , but we be fail on adherence and compliance . under IHL , aid worker should be protect . I welcome what the Foreign Secretary have say so far , but the death toll continue to rise in Gaza , and most of the aid worker be local . can the Foreign Secretary expand on what we will do to protect aid worker , include through the ministerial group for the protection of humanitarian personnel ? we meet representative of that group yesterday . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . we continue to work with UN colleague to ensure that aid worker be protect , just as we continue to work with our EU colleague on that . we condemn the tremendous loss of life in the bad conflict for aid worker , and we continue to call for justice , particularly for those kill in the World Central Kitchen , and for a proper investigatory process in Israel that see accountability for such act . I thank the Foreign Secretary for today ' s statement , and for all the work that he and his team have be do over so many month to try to find a resolution . the action of Hamas be both brutal and unacceptable , but for a democratically elect Government to bombard innocent civilian , and to deprive they of food , water and medical supply , be totally reprehensible . the Foreign Secretary be quite right to say that word be the language of diplomacy , but sometimes symbol matter too . give the fear that Israel ' s ground invasion be an attempt to separate the north from the south , lead to annexation , be it not time to recognise the state of Palestine and show that we stand with the people of Palestine ? I thank my hon . friend , and I recognise the strength of feeling in the House about want to see , alongside Israel , a home for the palestinian people that be safe and secure . however , as I have say to she before , we keep this issue under review , and we work with close ally such as France on these issue . my own judgment be that the moment will be right when there be a process that actually lead to two state . I have hope that , as a result of the ceasefire back in January and our get to phase 2 and 3 , we be get close to that process , and I will do everything I can to get we back to that place in the come day . like many , I be horrified to see the resumption of airstrike in Gaza and the loss of so many innocent life this week . civilian in Gaza and the remain israeli hostage , who be abduct in the appalling Hamas terror attack of 7 October , desperately need a ceasefire back in place , and the hostage must be release . will the Foreign Secretary join I in condemn comment from the israeli Defence Minister , who threaten the total destruction of Gaza ? will he also be clear that the terrorist of Hamas can have no role in the future of Gaza ? yes , I will . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , and for his relentless effort to bring all party back to the negotiating table . I think we have all be horrify by the scene we have see on tv , the resumption of the violence that have see the loss of hundred of innocent life , and the blockade of lifesave aid . we must never forget the hostage , who be wait to come home , and their family , who be wait for they , as well as the horror they have experience . give the email of concern that I have receive from my constituent , I must say that people be now ask : what next ? they be do so because , despite all these effort , we have reach a point of utter desperation and hopelessness . can he give assurance that arm licence will continue to be under regular review , and that sanction will be actively consider ? I hope that both those measure will bring people back to the peace table . arm licence be of course continually review , and as my hon . friend would expect , we always keep sanction under review . in recent day , nearly 1 , 000 Palestinians have be kill or injure , and once again , many more be be displace . the humanitarian situation be get bad in Gaza , as Israel refuse to let through the aid truck . the crossing have be close for 18 continuous day , which be surely a breach of international law . More than 1 million people have be leave without food parcel , and one in five pregnant woman and breastfeed mother be malnourished . we need a return to the ceasefire and the return of the hostage , but the action of the last week demand that the UK Government take further action . Israel continue to breach the term of the ceasefire . we should not do a trade deal with Israel while the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians be a real possibility . I urge the Foreign Secretary to consider sanction against some of the key israeli actor . what further action will he take in the light of these recent escalation ? I have deal at the Dispatch Box with much of what my hon . friend raise , but let I say that although the UK have difference with the israeli Government , we do not have difference with the israeli people . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade have take the decision to restart negotiation on a free trade arrangement with Israel . there have not be any ministerial meeting , but it be important that we do not act against the people of Israel , many of whom be take to the street at this very time . bombing civilian and prevent access to basic humanitarian supply as a tactic of war be a war crime . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement , and for his tireless diplomacy . a call for a full , transparent investigation be welcome , as be a call to return to a ceasefire . however , give our strong opposition to the return of hostility , and the bombing by the Israelis , we must now go beyond persuasion . their action be incompatible with international law . be it not time to make a direct response beyond persuasion ? what strong option do the Government have , which would assist diplomacy ? I know he can not speak about specific , but can he confirm that these option be be consider , so that we can send a clear message now , and help stop the bloodshed ? as one of the five permanent member of the UN Security Council , we of course have an arsenal of diplomatic tool , which we deploy as appropriate and keep under review . I want to reassure my hon . friend that we be do everything we can to get back to that ceasefire . many of my constituent have be in touch in recent day to express their horror and their devastation at the loss of life in Gaza after Israel resume the bombing . the Foreign Secretary be absolutely right to say that diplomacy be the only way to end the bloodshed , but can I push he on the resumption of humanitarian aid ? it be unacceptable that we have a continued blockade . what lever do we have to get Israel to end the blockade on aid , and what be the likelihood of aid go in in the come day ? I know my hon . friend ' s constituency well , and I can imagine that her constituent be react with real horror to what they be see at this time . there be a lot of comment about humanitarian aid — the inability to get aid in and the barrier to get aid in — that I hear from some colleague in Israel , but when we get that ceasefire , the number of truck crossing exceed expectation and the aid suddenly get in . it have now be , I think , 16 or 17 day since the aid stop , and there will be tremendous suffering as a result . aid should never be use as a tool in any conflict , and that be why we want to see the resumption of aid . we now know how many truck can get in , so let we get back to those number . I would like to commend my right hon . friend for all the hard work he have be do to secure a ceasefire in Gaza , and indeed for maintain accountability to this House , as he have do today , in so much detail . it be devastating that Israel have resume the indiscriminate bombing of palestinian civilian . while the ceasefire hold , there be comment from those on the Treasury Bench about the possibility of a trade deal between the UK and Israel . do the Foreign Secretary agree — surely he do — that a trade deal between the UK and Israel must be completely out of the question now that the ceasefire be over ? my hon . friend have make her view know . there have not be any ministerial meeting on any such trade deal . I always want to keep in mind the israeli people — such a deal be not , as it be , for the government ; it would be do on behalf of the people of Israel — but Ministers will have hear , and the whole House will have hear , her remark this afternoon . disabled People ' s access to Transport Transport Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Transport Committee . Ruth Cadbury will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of the statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not to the relevant Minister . front Benchers may take part in the questioning . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time for I to make a statement to the House to mark the publication of the Transport Committee ' s first report of this Parliament . our report be call " Access deny : right versus reality in disabled people ' s access to transport " . it bring to a conclusion work do by our predecessor Committee , on which I sit for a while in the previous Parliament , and for which we thank it . the report first set out the evidence we receive from disabled people about their experience of use transport network in this country . their experience will come as no surprise to most hon . member , whose constituent tell we about rail station that remain stubbornly inaccessible , taxi service that have refuse carriage because of assistance dog , and be leave high and dry at airport or on train when they have book passenger assistance that just do not arrive on time . no mode of transport be free from problem , despite most notionally have accessible facility and policy . those failure affect people with all kind of disability and access need . the need of wheelchair user and people with sight loss might seem obvious , but the Committee also hear from people with health condition who need easy access to toilet and from those with autism , who describe how overcrowded or unpredictable transport affect they . perhaps most shocking of all , 60 % of disabled people who respond to our survey say that almost every journey be beset with problem . More than a third say that more than once a week they decide not to make a journey because they know it would be too complicated , too unsafe or that thing be likely to go wrong . that be simply an unacceptable infringement of people ' s human right to go to work , to access education , health care and family , to participate in society and just to have fun . transport be not an end in itself . it be suppose to be an enabler . but far too often it be disable people . around one in seven in the UK population have a disability . one respondent to our survey tell we : " there ' s an assumption that disabled people ' s time be less valuable — that it ' s okay to make we wait for a rail worker to turn up with a ramp . I ' ve be late to important meeting because of this , and it make I feel like a second class citizen … I barely go to see my mum or friend at home because the transport be so bad for wheelchair user I don ' t know how I ' d do it . it ' s affect my friendship , relationship and work life , and it ' s embarrassing . I just want to be able to use public transport like everyone else . " in theory , we have law to promote accessibility and equality , but they be clearly not work . there be a raft of equality legislation and specific regulation about transport that , if implement consistently , ought to guarantee access and freedom from discrimination . from the Equality Act 2010 and the public sector equality duty to the minutia of vehicle regulation , we have the framework . on policy , in 2018 the Government adopt an inclusive transport strategy that aim to achieve : " equal access for disabled people use the transport system , with assistance if physical infrastructure remain a barrier , by 2030 " . minister in the previous Government tell the Committee they think progress towards that goal be on track . the reality seem to be completely at odd with the right and with policy aspiration . our report aim to set out why that be and what should be do about it . we set out example of accessibility be deprioritise , often because it be see as too impractical or costly to achieve it . plan for implement step - free access on the rail network , for example , have be beset by halt progress , and many of we be still await an update on the Access for all step - free project at our local station . we argue that a certain level of failure seem to be deem acceptable by transport provider , such as when provide Passenger Assist service . we describe how accessibility be not take into account early enough in the process of policy development , such as when proposal to close railway ticket office wholesale make it to consultation . the public say no , but they should not have have to . we discuss the vital role of sufficient staff who be well train in how to support travel need of people with different need . a change of mindset throughout the system , from the top down , be need urgently . failure should be vanishingly rare , not commonplace . access to transport must be recognise as a human right , not as a matter of customer service . concrete plan and real resource need to be put behind a new inclusive transport strategy , one that set out a realistic pathway to achieve that goal of equal access . the routine , everyday nature of access failure stand out in our inquiry , but it be punishingly hard to hold anyone to account for failure . seek redress , or even just report they to the responsible body , be a huge , exhausting and often thankless burden . in theory , individual can take legal action under the Equality Act , but it be costly , risky and time - consume , so few case be bring . even when case be successful , lasting systemic change do not happen . More of the heavy lifting need to be do by regulator and enforcement body . they currently often have neither the mandate nor the resource to involve themselves at a low enough threshold . only long - stand , organisation - wide failure tend to be pursue , and only then when informal measure have be exhaust . as a result , while individual disabled people often lose count of the number of occasion on which they have be fail , regulator can generally count on the finger of one or two hand the number of formal enforcement action that have be take . we must bring that into balance . there have to be consequence for failure . that be why our report ask Ministers to move towards a more robust active enforcement regime . we invite Government to consider whether a single body , with expertise in and responsibility for accessibility across transport mode , would be a more effective model . we recommend a unified service to receive and triage accessibility complaint , to ensure they reach the relevant operator or authority , to follow they up if not resolve and ensure that systemic issue be identify . we also ask for a review of the legal framework to replace the patchwork that have grow up ad hoc over time . user find it difficult to know what they be entitle to , operator find it difficult to know what they have to provide , and change in technology and travel trend leave gap in the law . in our report we invite the Government to consider whether a framework base on more explicit standard would be more effective , and that the framework ' s design and outcome must include disabled people at every stage . to conclude , I thank not only our predecessor Committee for take the evidence on which this report be base , and the Committee staff who work so hard on the inquiry and the report , but , more important , those who give evidence , especially about their own experience of travel as a disabled person and their expert analysis of what be go wrong . I particularly thank Claire Lindsey , and Alan Benson , a champion for disabled people ' s right on transport who sadly pass away last year . Alan and Claire take I through London at the start of the inquiry and open my eye to the issue that affect people with autism , and those with restricted mobility , when travel . the word of disabled people , quote throughout our report , be a call to action that we expect the Government to heed . our Committee will hold the Government to account for do so , and for bring reality in line with right . I commend our report to the House , and we look forward to receive a consider response from the Government in due course . I thank the Chair of the Transport Committee for the report , which be most welcome . I will read it with interest . she reference the Access for all programme , which hit the buffer during the previous Parliament with few than half the promise project come to fruition . she say much about what go wrong . how confident be she that we can avoid such problem happen in future ? the report have 29 recommendation , but the last one be the most important : an overarch body with responsibility for standard enforcement across transport mode , which would replace the hotchpotch of law , policy and process that disabled people must navigate with a more effective approach to assert the right of disabled traveller . I thank my hon . friend for such a brilliant report . I welcome the commitment to an accessible road map as part of labour ' s transformational Great British Railways reform . what positive role do my hon . friend see this road map play in improve accessible travel across the country ? I agree that the formation of great British Railways provide an opportunity to bring together all the player in passenger rail , many of which have different standard , different policy and different training regime . with a single command body , I think we have a real chance of bring those process together . however , that do not stop rail operator carry out their responsibility day to day . it be not just about policy , but about how it work every day . order . we have several minute only , so question and answer must be short . I compliment the Transport Committee and its Chair on this report , which , from what I have read so far , be absolutely excellent . I have two very short point for the hon . Lady . in London , ticket office be close by Transport for London some time ago . do the report include anything about the possibility of reopen those ticket office or have well information available for people , particularly those with sight or hear difficulty , go to station ? secondly , there be still a large number of underground station with no lift access whatsoever . what evidence have she have that Transport for London will bring forward a programme to make all underground station fully accessible for everyone ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . under our proposal , TfL would need to be part of that new process . take the example of Vienna ' s 100 - year - old U - Bahn system , where there be a programme to make every station accessible within 30 year . London be big , and it be a big challenge , but it be not impossible . I call Transport Committee member Laurence Turner . I pay tribute to my hon . friend , whose determination as Chair have mean that this important report from the previous Committee have see the light of day . do she agree that the reasonable adjustment framework under the Equality Act be the right one , and that the problem be the lack of implementation and awareness ? if we have clear statutory guidance , as exist in some area , disabled passenger and other transport user would face few barrier . I thank my hon . friend for the support he give I in draft the final part of the report . he be absolutely right . disabled people and operator currently use a system that be a hotchpotch of sometimes conflict and very complex bit of legislation , some of which be bring over from EU law and some from the Equality Act . when that be address , it will be much clear to bring forward more specific regulation . I thank the Committee Chair for bring forward this report . access to transport relate not just to disabled people , but to parent with pushchair , people with luggage and so on — it benefit we all . I be often contact by constituent about the condition of lift at Sutton station . a focus on accessibility — with investment not only in improve step - free access , but in maintain it — be an opportunity provide by the reform to transport under great British Railways . do she agree that the Government should focus not only on the roll - out of additional step - free access , but on well maintenance and well programme to ensure that the exist facility remain accessible for as long as possible ? I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman . in addition , thank to digital technology , we now have real - time knowledge of when a lift be work or not . I call Transport Committee member Alex Mayer . our report highlight that the understanding of disability have change since many of the relevant law and regulation be put in place . this issue be about not only ramp for wheelchair , for example , but condition such as neurodiversity . do my hon . friend agree that make transport more accessible for those with hide disability be important , not least because , for economic growth , we must use the talent of all ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as I say , Claire open my eye to her need , with thing like have to find an access information point outside the station where she can summon Passenger Assist so that she do not have to go through the confusion , noise and crowd of a station , as well as the design of the wall in tube station , which impact her ability to move through a station . my hon . friend be absolutely right : hide disability be as important as those we can see with a wheelchair or a white stick . londoner often complain about their train service , but actually it be pretty good , with the overground , the underground and Network Rail . however , it be bar to many disabled traveller — take an example at random , Kew Bridge and Gunnersbury station , which serve my constituent and those of my hon . friend the Select Committee Chair , need step - free access . what can we do to change feasibility study into actuality in such place ? I thank my hon . friend and neighbour for raise the issue of the two station where both of our constituent need step - free access . I have not yet have an answer from the Rail Minister on the Access for all programme for those two station , but I will keep chase . I thank my colleague on the Transport Committee for their work on this important report . I have be campaign to make atherstone station in my constituency more accessible , and I will be use this report to help achieve that goal . the previous Government recklessly overpromise on Access for all , misleading disabled passenger who have be leave strand for too long . do my hon . friend agree that disabled people have be let down over the past decade , and that this Government be right to tackle the situation now and improve service for the future ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . one of the criticism of the exist Access for all programme be the expense of the project that have be deliver . have a road map of the station upgrade to provide certainty and consistency for contractor would speed up the delivery and reduce the cost of deliver lift in the station where they be so badly need . I commend the Chair for this excellent report and for shine the light on such an important issue . I can think of numerous time when I have be on a bus and have have to be very curt with the driver to argue on behalf of a disabled person in a wheelchair who want to use the space , after the driver have blatantly tell they to wait for the next bus . that sort of thing be unacceptable . do she agree that we need to look at the enforcement of the equality legislation as it stand and at well training and awareness so that disable people in wheelchair can use public transport ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , who chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . as I say , the culture change go from the top to the frontline , and staff need both to be train and to have the confidence that they will be support if they do assert the right of disabled people . as the parent of a wheelchair user with a severe sight impairment , I see many of the issue the report highlight on a daily basis . the report highlight the issue with aviation and the difficulty the Civil Aviation Authority have face in enforce regulation on behalf of wheelchair user and people with a severe sight impairment . will my hon . friend join I in ask the Government to fully consider the recommendation of the aviation accessibility task and finish group when it report in the summer , along with the principle of my Aviation ( accessibility ) Bill , to finally make change for disabled people on airline ? I be happy to be a co - sponsor of my hon . friend ' s Bill on aviation accessibility . I fear that one of our finding be that the CAA put too much emphasis on what it call " reputational enforcement " , rather than proper enforcement . the relevant Minister in the previous Parliament say that the CAA need additional power , and I hope this Government will support those word . I thank my hon . friend and her Committee for a fantastic report . will she join I in congratulate disability right activist such as my former constituent , Sam Jennings , who I know be thrill by the report , which I hope my hon . friend would be happy to hear ? it be important that we congratulate these activist , who have be look for a report like this for a long time . Sam certainly open my eye to a number of different issue . if the government accept these recommendation , which they should , it will be due to their fantastic activism . People such as Sam be amazing activist . as I have say , they be major contributor to our inquiry , but they also need to be major contributor to the solution . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow Act : Finance Act 2025 . Backbench Business Knife crime : Children and Young People before we begin the debate , may I remind Members of the House ' s rule on matter sub judice ? member should make no reference to live criminal case in which a suspect have be charge . I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of knife crime amongst child and young people . first , let I place on the record my gratitude to the Backbench Business Committee for grant this time in the House of Commons Chamber . I also thank all those from both side of the House who support my application for a debate on this topic . there be some issue that I believe rise above the Punch and Judy vaudeville that characterise so much of our political debate . I call for this debate because I believe it be a topic that Parliament need to discuss bravely , honestly , frankly and robustly ; I believe it transcend party politic and party line ; and I have be call for it for several year — since long before I become a Member of Parliament . I wholeheartedly welcome this Government ' s pledge to halve instance of knife crime over the next decade . the previous Government seek to tackle knife crime but , sadly , be unable to do so effectively . although I do not doubt either government ' intent and desire to achieve that aim , I be sceptical that this Government will fare much well than the last . for all the hype and the fanfare , this be an issue that repeatedly fall by the wayside , until it be thrust back into the spotlight with the tragic death of yet another child . put simply , I do not believe that government of any hue have show the mettle require to tackle this with the resource , approach and focus that be require . there be no easy solution to this issue . the Government ' s most recent datum show that of 19 , 903 offence result in a caution or conviction for possession of a knife or offensive weapon , juvenile age 10 to 17 year old be the offender in 18 % of case . a community sentence be the most common sentence give to those 10 to 17 - year - old — 61 % of all knife and offensive weapon offence across that age demographic . over the past decade , 10 to 17 - year - old offender show the big decrease in average sentence length , with a 25 % decrease from 8 . 1 month in March 2014 to 6 . 1 month in March 2024 . around 70 % of youth offender be commit their first offence . in the 12 month to March 2024 , 57 young people age under 25 be murder with a knife or sharp object , 17 of whom be child age under 16 . in 2023 , the most recent year for which the data be available , just 6 . 5 % of knife and offensive weapon offence result in immediate custody . with a 93 % chance of not go to prison , why should anyone carry a knife fear the law ? before become the MP for Huntingdon , I spend a decade work in London and live in Haringey , north London . at that time , Haringey have the second high rate of knife crime in London . it be difficult to explain what it be like to live in an area of London where murder and stabbing become so commonplace as to elicit little more than a shrug from local resident ; where police tape close a road or a local park be normalise to the point of merely be an inconvenience ; where the murder of a child do not make the national news ; and where five child be charge with murder do not make the national news , as with the case of the murder of taxi driver Gabriel Bringye in 2021 . this desensitisation be but one part of the problem . over a three - year period , there be at least a dozen fatal stabbing within a mile of my front door . several of those victim be child . half of those arrest in connection with the crime be child , as be the perpetrator too . I remember the murder of 16 - year - old Stelios Averkiou . he be stab multiple time by his assailant after he resist his mobile phone be steal in Lordship recreation ground . I be in the park shortly afterwards and see the aftermath . I remember for week afterwards the handwritten poster on the tree around the park ask for anyone to come forward with information . I remember the murder of 17 - year - old Anas Mezenner , fatally stab near Turnpike Lane station in another fight over a mobile phone . the 17 - year - old boy guilty of the stabbing have dozen of video of himself on his own phone posing with large blade . while on remand , in a recorded phone call , he have state : " just want my little chinge to get it , my first little juice on my blade . it ' s just go in my man ' s arse . . . the whole 15 go in down his arse . " ana die from a fatal stab wound to the buttock from a knife with a 15 cm blade . all five charge with the murder be child . I remember the murder of 17 - year - old Ali Baygoren , stab in the neck twice outside his home just across the road from the Tottenham Hotspur stadium . his murderer , a 16 - year - old boy , be on bail have only nine month previously stab a 14 - year - old boy in a dispute over a light , leave a knife bury in his chest . that boy survive . there be dozen more . on Tuesday , a 17 - year - old boy be stab after a mass brawl involve young man arm with machete erupt in Forest Gate , east London . on Monday afternoon , a 15 - year - old boy be stab in broad daylight in Turnberry Park in Birmingham . on Saturday , a 15 - year - old be stab in McDonald ' s in Southall , and two 14 - year - old be arrest . last Friday , in Oxford , a 16 - year - old boy be stab , and two 13 - year - old and a 12 - year - old be arrest . last Thursday , a 15 - year - old boy be stab at the Bobby Moore Academy in Stratford . three boy be arrest . last week in Yorkshire , a 15 - year - old boy be find guilty of the attempt murder of a 14 - year - old girl with a samurai sword on a camping trip last November . she suffer 10 wound , include damage to a lung and her liver . the forensic pathologist ' s report say that she be lucky not to have be kill . the court hear claim that he have be offer £ 20 by a friend to attack she . these be not isolate incident , but a daily occurrence across the country . these be vicious , feral , derange attack that be traumatic for the victim and for those involve , yet they be often little more than a pass headline in a list of other , more newsworthy , tragedy . we be all aware of the role that social medium play in this context and how its algorithm can facilitate a dangerous influence on young user . for child and young people , their world be small , often limited to their school , their friend and people they know in their neighbourhood , but with access to social medium that change . their world remain small , but the issue within it be amplify — blow out of all proportion . in its 2021 paper , " Knife Crime in the Capital " , Policy Exchange write that " the frequency with which young people associate with gang be confront with violent video on social medium shift their perception of normality , desensitise they and increase the chance that they will react violently . it also reinforce the perceive need to carry weapon for protection . " in the intervene period since that paper be write that same influential factor have ripple outward to child who , although not associate with any gang , exist in a very online world where it be all too easy to become seduce by the belief that carry a knife be a normal and essential aspect of everyday life , that the threat of attack be ever - present , and that carry a knife be a key component of self - defence . Police force have even now alter their approach to share image of weapon seize during operation , after feedback that this in itself contribute to the process of desensitisation and simultaneously make young people feel that their local area be unsafe , thus encourage they to carry a knife themselves . but we need look no far than the social medium platform that we ourselves use : Instagram , Snapchat , TikTok . I use YouTube every day , but scratch the surface and we can find harmful content , such as scoreboard video outline who have stab or kill whom in localise turf war for gang supremacy . these scoreboard video brazenly chase clout , highlight those involve , outline who " wet " someone , who " burst " someone else , who " buss their case " — get away with it in court — and who therefore remain dangerous and at large . this illustrate that those involve can often enjoy a degree of impunity . I thank the hon . member for make such an impassioned speech . he have just outline some of the role of the social medium company . do he agree that the same rigour that we rightly use to catch some of the perpetrator of these crime should be apply to the social medium giant who refuse , in some case , to take down really explicit and graphic image on their website , say that they do not breach their content policy ? that be a very valid point . the social medium company themselves know full well that this content be there and could easily create an ability to moderate it . these be billion dollar company and if they want to take down this stuff , they could . it be about willpower . it be part of our responsibility in this House to make sure that that happen . fear of be stab or kill far outweigh any fear of the police . we only need to watch one of the video I mention to see how an endless immersion into this world can cloud people ' s judgment . when I ask a Justice Minister whether such video could be use as evidence to prosecute the Government ' s new law of possession of a knife with violent intent , I do not receive an answer , and I be not sure whether the Minister quite understand what I be make reference to . I ask the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire whether she could address that specific point in she sum up at the end of the debate . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate and on make an impassioned speech . he be talk about the danger of social medium influence boy and young man . one of the key aspect of that be their role in society and the lack of clear role model . will he join I in pay tribute to the former England football manager , Sir Gareth Southgate , who , in his Richard Dimbleby lecture this week , articulate the importance of role model and of boy and young man get involve in active sport , so that they then become normalise in that setting and be not draw into this dreadfully violent world ? I agree , and I will mention later the intervention to try to get people in a more collegiate and embrace atmosphere . role model be a valid issue . sadly , my speech be already long , but I would have love to cover that in more detail , because it be a huge part of the reason why young man be draw into this type of violent world . scoreboard video be inextricably link to drill music , which be a genre but also the medium by which various group - cum - gang be able to taunt their " opps " — the catalyst for multiple stabbing , often fatal . the line between gang and group be blur to the point of irrelevance . meanwhile , the medium either do not know or do not care . inner - city black youth be , consciously or unconsciously , expendable and interchangeable , overrepresente in statistic as both victim and perpetrator . the soft bigotry of low expectation make black culture ripe for exploitation as a cheap way to appear edgy , irrespective of the upstream impact . large medium corporation , even the BBC , play their part in the creation of this milieu , lean into it and give it validation . the cynical valorisation of the most detrimental aspect of urban black culture and the celebration of criminality via musician be one of the most toxic overarching influence in push this issue into the mainstream . Irving Adjei , aka Headie One , go to prison three time as a teenager , include for deal crack cocaine and heroin . in June 2019 , Adjei be arrest for possession of a knife follow a stop and search . while on bail , Adjei complete his UK tour , release his album , which reach no . 5 in the UK chart , appear on Stormzy ' s album " Heavy be the Head " , play Glastonbury and be feature on BBC Radio 1 . he be use in an advertising campaign for JD Sports alongside heavyweight champion Anthony Joshua , and front an advertising campaign for Adidas that December . that be the same Adidas that run its " no More red " knife crime awareness campaign alongside Arsenal FC just a couple of mile down the road shortly after that , but it be also happy to run an advertising campaign with a rapper on bail for possession of a knife . the hypocrisy of brand such as Adidas be off the scale . Less than a month after launch the Adidas promo , Adjei be sentence to six month for possession of that knife and go to prison for a fourth time . he be release that April . six month later , his single be no . 2 in the chart , he have praise lavish upon he by the Times , and he have never look back . how do that convince anyone that there be any penalty whatsoever for carry a knife ? if anything , it have be an asset for someone like he because of the edginess that I refer to . in September 2019 , the Guardian publish a piece about UK drill rapper OFB , who hail from the same Broadwater Farm estate in Tottenham as Irving Adjei . it state that the drill group OFB be " try to move the genre beyond the violence for which it have be demonise " . the interview be with two of the three in the group : Bandokay aka Kemani Duggan — the son of Mark Duggan — and double Lz . it casually mention that the third , 17 - year - old SJ , be " not around today " . several month later it transpire that SJ , aka Jayden o ' Neill - Crichlow , be " not around today " because he be on remand for his part in the murder of Kamali Gabbidon - Lynck seven month previously . o ' Neill - Crichlow be one of five young man , four of whom be teenager , who receive lengthy sentence of 20 year - plus after they arrive on Wood Green High Street on a Friday night arm with machete , a handgun and a shotgun . they shoot at Gabbidon - Lynck , miss and hit a pack Nando ' s restaurant , and chase he down the street , eventually corner he in a hair salon where he be shoot and brutally hack to death . for his part in the murder , o ' Neill - Crichlow be sentence to 21 year . I remember this because it happen 300 metre from my home . I challenge the author of the piece about why it be appropriate to write a puff piece about a group who have one member on remand for murder . he cite that it be an editorial decision by the Guardian . last year , Kemani Duggan be sentence to five year in prison for possession of a Tokarev pistol and . 22 calibre ammunition , with intent to cause fear of violence — the violence for which drill music have be " demonise " . that be precisely the type of irresponsible medium valorisation that illustrate my point . I congratulate my hon . friend on bring to the House this horrific catalogue of embarrassing incident — embarrass to member of this House and previous administration , because we have be asleep on the job . the legal authority be able to stamp down on last summer ' s riot in Southport so effectively by take tough measure ; do he agree that that be call for now ? talk about reduce the incidence of knife crime by half over 10 year be totally inadequate . immediate action be need to make an example of this type of crime and deter other from participate . I agree . the law simply do not act as a deterrent to many of these people . they be far more scared of their immediate surrounding and the danger pose to they in everyday life than they be of be arrest by a police officer , know full well that they be unlikely to go to prison unless they have do something as heinous as some of the act that I have describe . Ciaran Thapar , the author of the piece that I just describe , appear before the Youth Select Committee last December in his new role as director of public affair and communication at the Youth Endowment Fund . there , he explain how drill be an outlet for those involve to express the trauma that they have experience in their life . adverse childhood experience be a key part of fuel the likelihood of vulnerable individual become involve in knife crime . there be a broad question here about immigration , particularly from country where experience of trauma , brutality and war be contribute factor in youth behaviour within multicultural inner - city community . the Youth Endowment Fund do important work on knife crime , and its toolkit be often cite as a key resource in provide the tool require to reach child . last week I speak to Sharon Ward , the serious violence duty co - ordinator in Cambridgeshire and Peterborough , cover my constituency of Huntingdon . the serious violence duty be introduce by the previous Government in January 2023 , and require local agency to share datum and information to help identify the root cause of serious violence occur locally . when I speak to Sharon about this in depth , she explain that they use a multi - agency public health approach , address the underlie risk factor that increase the likelihood that an individual will become a victim or perpetrator of violence in the first place . the most vulnerable time for child and young people be from 3 pm to 6 pm , as well as later in the evening from 10 pm until 2 am . diversionary activity be key to reduce those vulnerability . Sharon outline how the path to become involve in violence be a slippery slope , where participation in antisocial behaviour be link progression to more violent crime . I be sure that the subject of funding for youth service and cut under the previous Government will be raise . I have focus on less discuss aspect of this wide issue in my speech ; however , the part play by youth worker in reach child and young people who be vulnerable and at risk of embark on the wrong path be well - document . Cambridgeshire and Peterborough currently have 41 intervention fund by the serious violence duty . they range from sport - base intervention to mentor and relationship building , but all be design to help those assess as vulnerable . we must also be mindful that it be not simply about child from certain background — child from all background be vulnerable to exploitation by gang . those child do not realise that they be be exploit because of the way that they be be groom — they be give new trainer , a PlayStation game or a bike by an old person they look up to or be fearful of , seemingly with no string attach . then they be on the hook and owe they at good a favour , or at bad a debt . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure such an important debate . he have make the point about child a number of time . do he agree that educate our girl and our boy about the importance of respect themselves and each other be an important part of tackle not just knife crime but all crime ? do he also agree that it be a matter for all government to do much more on prevention and early intervention ? I wholeheartedly agree . child seem to find themselves in a general atmosphere in which there be a constant need for validation and for they to twist themselves into something that they be not . my honest belief be that social medium have play a huge part in that . it come across as a facile answer to give , but when we delve into it , it be far more complex and damaging than we be prepared to credit . any child can fall into criminality in this way . Sharon explain how parent need to be part of those discussion and alert to the warning sign . it be vital that scheme such as the serious violent duty continue to be fund , though I ask the Government to ensure that such funding be approve well ahead of time , rather than within a few week of its end , give the uncertainty that that often generate . I welcome the Government ' s decision to ban zombie knife . any step take towards reduce the chance of a fatal stabbing be a move in the right direction , but we must not smugly pat ourselves on the back and assume that that be all that be require . I be as critical of the previous Government ' s attempt to ban zombie knife as I be of this one ' s — not of the intent but of the way that it be announce as the solution rather than a tiny piece of the overall problem . zombie knife account for just 3 . 6 % of fatal stabbing , the same as a lock knife . Screwdrivers be a more commonly use weapon . however , by far and away the most common be the kitchen knife : 52 . 6 % of fatal stabbing involve the type of knife that we all have and probably use this morning or last night in our own kitchen . yes , the zombie knife should be ban , but give its use in a small minority of fatal stabbing , that be not the panacea that it be present as . there have be proposal to change kitchen knife to have a rounded rather than a pointed tip , as outline in research by Professor Graham Farrell and Toby Davies , and as champion by Idris Elba in his drive to tackle knife crime . I would be interested to hear from the Minister what consideration have be give to that idea , but we can not pretend that kitchen knife be not and will not continue to be easily available to anyone with the intention of use one . the hon . Gentleman be make an important and passionate speech . historically , my area of Fife have not be synonymous with knife crime , and we want to keep it that way , but the possession of weapon in Fife have increase by 50 % in the last year . do he agree that figure like that , along with concern recent footage on social medium of a young man brandish a knife shortly before he be attack , be a warning sign that we need to act now to prevent bad development ? I wholeheartedly agree . area that traditionally have not be plague by such violence be increasingly find it ripple out into their community . it be no long just in large city and area that we would traditionally associate with it ; we be find it slowly move into the suburb . we need to nip this in the bud if we can to prevent any more tragedy . a key question be : why be child now prepare to murder other child ? it can not be ignore that we see countless example weekly — even daily — of a child be stab by another child . when do child develop a nihilistic worldview and a willingness to take the life of another child ? in my previous career as an Army officer , I instruct new soldier in phase one training , so I know how long it take to train a teenager to be prepared to kill . how and why be some child develop that mindset all on their own ? fear be a huge driver of knife - carrying . the Ben Kinsella Trust ' s " keep Young People Safe " report illustrate that it drive the normalisation of carry a knife . in the report , two third of respondent to a survey of some 10 , 000 young people say that they harbour anxiety about knife crime . shockingly , the survey show that child as young as 10 or 11 year old be consider carry a knife . though the number be very low , that show that the idea of carry a knife be within the scope of child who have only just stop believe in Father Christmas . be child murder other child solely out of fear ? these child be not actually under threat — these be fight over little more than perceive slight — but somehow we have reach a stage of such frenzied paranoia among child of school age that they believe not only that they need to carry a knife , but that take a life be somehow a reasonable , rational response to these situation . there be a sensible argument for access to therapy as a potential solution , but I appreciate that that be easy to suggest and unrealistic to facilitate and implement . I have go on long enough ; I want to give other an opportunity to speak . I hope to hear many important and interesting contribution from hon . member . I open the debate to other . I commend the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for bring this important debate to the House . this be a national emergency and a huge threat to our society and our young people . I wish to associate myself with many of the thing he say , and I totally agree that we have to stop this . I be not interested in who say what and when politically ; I be interested in all of we work together to resolve this issue . we have to deal with it . I will give a voice to victim and family , because it be important that we remember that behind every stabbing there be a victim , and behind every victim there be a family . I wish to mention two in particular . my constituent Beverley Davies have be to see I a few time . Beverley ' s son be stab over 120 time on Parbold Hill in Lancashire a few year ago . Alex be his name , and he be 18 . the individual who murder he be also 18 . they meet online on a platform that be use to lure Alex to his death . Beverley feel wholly let down by the justice system and the support and communication that she have receive since this appalling event . the justice system around the country be piecemeal . it must be improve for our victim and family . child A survive the Southport attack — she be stab over 30 time . she and her family live in my constituency . I will not give her name or that of her parent , but I ask they if they wish to have their voice hear today in the Chamber . I commend they , because they ask I to read out the follow statement . " we welcome tough law around the purchase of knife and the wide work to reduce knife crime . we be extremely focused from our direct experience on male youth violence against woman and girl but also recognise that knife crime cross many other area of our society and tackle this be complex . to reduce knife crime , and other act of violence perpetrate by young man and boy against woman and girl , we must look at the motivation , the narrative and the environment they be immerse in . for we , this be the hard work ; the work that require sustained commitment . " that commitment must come from we . the statement go on : " the work to reduce knife crime must begin before young people go out to obtain a knife . it be sensible to make it hard to purchase knife and to tighten the law on carry knife . these be tangible solution that provide quick reassurance and ' result . ' but , if a young person be look for a knife , then we be too late , and they be already on a path to cause harm . we must support parent , caregiver and school well , not only in how they identify and support young people who may be at risk to themselves or other — we can all agree that these pathway need overhaul , and the Southport inquiry will serve this purpose — but , before that , work with all child , establish the fundamental of healthy relationship , friendship , and girl and boy be equal . our young people must be expose to counter - message from what they may be consume online , or at home . the work require be vast and complex but the long - term reduction in knife crime will only be see if we go back to the start and raise our child well . in the context of violence towards woman and girl , current topic be important . Netflix ' s show ' adolescence ' have open a conversation about our child ' s exposure to harmful messaging and theme about woman and girl . we be grateful for the coverage happen this week , which be far highlight the terrifying impact of Andrew Tate and other on vulnerable young boy . " I commend that child ' s parent for have the courage to write that . they be clearly concerned that this will happen again . I urge all hon . member of the House to please work together for the victim and the family . let we please deal with this once and for all . I thank the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for secure this important debate , and for his thoughtful speech . I join he in pay tribute to Ciaran Thapar , whose work take place in my constituency . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , who make a move statement on behalf of his constituent . I grow up near Parbold Hill and Southport , and it grieve I deeply to hear about the appalling violence in both those community . I rise to speak in this debate on knife crime with great sadness , because today , just after 5 am , a young man lose his life on Coldharbour Lane in my constituency after be stab . I visit the scene this morning and stand at the police line as the forensic officer undertake their work . I speak with community member who be confront with the shocking aftermath of this violence as they go about their day . I think about the family , whose day would begin with a knock on the door from police officer , and the utterly devastating news that their love one would not be come home ever again . it be hard to feel anything but despair in these circumstance . I know that hon . member across the House will wish to join I in express our sincere condolence to the family and friend of the young man who lose his life . we do not yet know his identity , but we know that there will be people who love he , and who be suffer the most visceral pain and loss today . I also pay tribute to the emergency service who attend the scene this morning . when this young man ' s name be release , it will join the name of other who have lose their life to serious violence and knife and gun crime in my constituency since I be first elect to this place in 2015 . they be Jude Gayle , Kyall Parnell , John Ogunjobi , Donnell Rhule , Glendon Spence , Dennis Anderson , Beatrice Stoica , Filipe Oliveira , Chino Johnson , Ronaldo Scott and Keelen Wong . each one be love by their family and friend , and each one leave a community traumatise by their loss and the circumstance of it . when a knife or gun crime be report in the medium , we see the name in the headline for a few short hour , and maybe again if the case come to trial . we never hear about the ongoing trauma leave behind in the local community , and the sense of loss feel not only by the immediate family but everyone who watch that person grow up and see they out and about daily , those whose child go to school with they , and those who recognise and know they . there be a sense of fear among parent that next time , their child might be the victim , and there be the mental health consequence of live with loss , fear and anxiety . the cause of knife crime be complex . we need to take a public health approach to it , as though it be a disease . we should understand its pathology and take step to prevent it take hold , stop its spread , and treat the cause and the symptom . I introduce a private member ' s Bill in the last Parliament to stop the availability of the most horrific weapon on our street . I have meet the lead consultant in the emergency department at King ' s College hospital , who describe the horrific injury that be inflict by machete and zombie knife — weapon that can cut through bone , and serrate blade that inflict the most complex injury on internal organ . they speak about the survivability of many such injury , compare with wound inflict with domestic knife , and describe machete and zombie knife as " weapon of war on our street " . no one in our community need a machete or a zombie knife for any legitimate purpose , but they have be readily available for purchase online for as little as £ 10 . I therefore welcome the Government ' s action since July to far restrict their sale . I want further action on domestic knife . in particular , we should look at whether further restriction can be introduce regard age verification of those purchase knife with pointed blade . I also want action far up the chain , to tackle those who exploit and groom our young people into serious violence — the county line exploiter , the drug dealer and the serious organise criminal who be not speak about enough in these debate . in my constituency , in part because of the tragedy that we have experience , we have see inspire response from community organisation work with public service . the embed of youth worker in hospital emergency department be pioneer by Redthread at King ' s College hospital . they provide option for young people who have be injure , or have see their friend injure , allow they to access support to keep themselves safe . I welcome the Government roll out that intervention in other part of the country . I be also grateful to the Mayor of London ' s violence reduction unit for fund Ecosystem Coldharbour through the My Ends programme . Ecosystem Coldharbour be a coalition of grassroots organisation work with young people and family in the Brixton part of my constituency . it have be work for the last three year and have deliver some really impressive result . it have build up the trust and confidence of young people and family , so that they can access help and support . it provide mentoring and training opportunity , and lead the community response when tragedy occur . it deliver trauma support to family and community . our community feel empower by that work . it be particularly inspirational to see a group of mother who have all lose a child to serious violence work together , under the banner " Circle of Life Ignite " , to support each other and prevent further death . I be inspire by the way that young leader have be equip through that work . I pay tribute to the work of Abdoul Lelo , an extraordinarily impressive young man who have be work with McDonald ' s in Brixton to embed a youth service in the restaurant . it take support and positive opportunity to young people where they be . there be also benefit for the staff , who have often feel unsafe and overwhelmed in their workplace . I also pay tribute to the work of Sergeant Nigel Pearce from central south basic command unit , who have pioneer a different approach to community policing , base on trust and listen to the community , and respond respectfully and supportively to their need and experience . if we have more officer work in this way across the Metropolitan Police , trust and confidence in policing would be much high . the partnership in my constituency be call Ecosystem because of the belief of the organisation in it that all the solution to serious violence be in the community — but the community need help and resource to find they . that be what we have have through the violence reduction unit . my plea to the Minister be that fund for such vital work be put on a long - term footing , so that we can keep on deliver and work to tackle the scourge of serious violence . in fact , as the Minister think about the design of the Government ' s Young Futures project , I invite she to visit Ecosystem , because we have much good practice to offer for the development of that national programme . the debate today be about young people and knife crime , but to tackle the scourge of knife crime , we must properly understand the nature of the problem and who be affect . of the victim who have be murder in my constituency since 2015 , only two be under the age of 18 . the majority be young man in their 20 , a cohort who grow up at a time when fund for youth service be be strip away , who may find themselves unable to access employment often due to minor criminal conviction , who often have very poor mental health , who be access deeply damage online content and for whom society can seem like it have very little to offer . there be currently no protocol or good practice for tackle serious violence in that cohort . the only part of the system oblige to try to help be the criminal justice system , if the person in question have commit a crime . social service have no formal role or responsibility and mental health service be not design with this cohort in mind , despite the fact that they be so often traumatise by the experience , what they have witness in their community and what they have see their friend go through . if we want to end the cycle of violence in our community , we must turn our attention to that group . they be sibling , cousin and parent to the next generation . the key to prevention must therefore lie in help they to turn their life around , make support service more visible in our community , make it easy to ask for help through service that be design with their need in mind and properly resource effective rehabilitation . I welcome the Government ' s focus on halve knife crime . my community have suffer far too much from its devastating effect and we continue to suffer today . I urge the Minister to work with we to devise service and intervention base on the experience in our community , because we utterly reject this violence and we just want to see it stop . before I call the next speaker , I want to try and get everybody in , so please can people stick to around four minute ? I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate on knife crime among child and young people , an issue that continue to devastate community across the country . I thank the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for secure the debate . very few people can say that they be not deeply concerned about the rise level of knife crime , particularly among child and young people . as have be hear from my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , in the early hour of this morning a young man be stab and kill in Brixton , a town centre that we share along with my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . our thought go to the young man and his family at this time . it be a tragedy , but even more sadly , it be a tragedy that we hear far too often . the late figure show that there be more than 50 , 000 knife - relate offence in England and Wales last year . alarmingly , around one in five knife possession involve young people under the age of 18 . in 2023 - 24 , there be 53 record of homicide use a sharp instrument where the victim be age between 13 and 19 year . though those statistic be alarming , we have to remember that they be not just number but young life that be be lose , and with each one come a family that will be leave grieve and a community that be scarred . I know that many hon . member will point to the need for more policing , increase stop and search and harsh sentencing , and restriction on who can buy a knife as solution . indeed , successive government , include this one , have introduce measure along those line to tackle the surge in knife crime . I certainly will not stand here and argue that we do not need to review how we police the issue , although I believe that increase police measure such as stop and search need to be thoroughly think - through and must be intelligence - lead . increase policing and sentencing be not the only solution and can not work on their own . youth and knife crime be a wide societal issue that require a holistic approach . if tough sentencing and more stop and search power be all it take , we would have solve this crisis a long time ago . we can not take reactive step alone ; we have to take preventive one . I know conservative Members do not particularly enjoy our point out their record in government , but we can not let this debate go by without mention the impact of the past 14 year . this be not a political point but a factual one , because over that time we see the systematic dismantling of the support system that help keep young people away from crime . research from the YMCA show that youth service have be cut by 73 % since 2010 , with over 750 youth centre close and the number of youth worker fall by a third to 1 , 662 full - time equivalent role . the result have be few space , mentor and positive role model for young people . a recent Unison report reveal that in England 1 , 036 council - run youth centre be close between 2010 and 2023 , and only 480 remain open in April 2023 . funding for sure Start child ' s centre , which provide early intervention and family support , have be decimate . funding for police community support officer , who play a vital role in build trust between police and young people , have be drastically reduce . school budget cut have squeeze pastoral support , mental health provision and behavioural intervention , increase exclusion overall . the link between school exclusion and serious violence be well know . exclude child often fall through the crack . many enter pupil referral unit where gang recruit vulnerable young people . other disengage entirely , make they more susceptible to criminal activity . those cut have consequence , and when young people lack support , opportunity or hope , they become vulnerable to criminal exploitation . gang step in where the state have step back . it be no coincidence that as these service have disappear , knife crime have rise . conservative Members can not ignore the direct correlation between austerity and serious youth violence , but equally Labour member can not either . if we maintain the cut or extend they even far , that be the definition of insanity : do the same thing over and over again and expect a different result . as a starting point for tackle youth violence and knife crime , I strongly urge the Government to look at reverse the cut and invest in youth service . I also urge the Government to look at how local council tackle the issue . I point to my council in the borough of Lambeth . Lambeth make Safer be launch in 2021 by Councillor Jacqui Dyer . it take a public health approach to violence reduction , focus on prevention , early intervention and community - lead solution . it prioritise target outreach , family support and investment in community initiative . it be obviously woefully under - resource , but it be the sort of initiative and community - drive approach that should be roll out nationwide . there be no single solution to this crisis , but we can begin to address it by ensure that young people have the wraparound service that we know prevent they from be involve in , or the victim of , crime . we will now start with a formal four - minute time limit . I thank the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for secure this important debate . Knife crime continue to cast a dark shadow over our community , claim young life , shatter family and leave a trail of devastation in its wake . last year , 10 people be stab every week in Birmingham — a statistic that be both alarming and unacceptable . within my constituency cover Erdington , Kingstanding , Castle Vale and south Oscott , the B23 postcode have be particularly affect . in 2023 , it record the high number of knife - relate incident in the entire city , but behind those statistic be real life , real family and real pain . when knife crime tear through family , it destroy life and devastate entire community . just week ago , this crisis strike my family , turn our world upside down . my nephew — a kind - hearted , wonderful young man — be brutally attack in an act of senseless knife violence . his crime be be in the wrong place at the wrong time . while his wound be heal , it will take month for he to fully recover . the emotional trauma inflict on he and our family , however , be immeasurable . this be a pain no family should ever have to endure , yet it be a pain that far too many be force to bear . Knife crime thrive in the shadow of neglect . fourteen year of austerity under the last Government gutte our community , strip away 70 % of the support system that once guide and protect young people . in Erdington , the closure of the Malcolm Locker youth centre in 2014 mark the end of the last council - run youth service in my constituency . the cut have leave a void that be too often fill by despair and violence . I be glad that this Government have recognise the problem of knife crime and include provision to address it in the Crime and Policing Bill , but we can and must do more . I have always say that prevention be well than cure , and while the police play a vital role in tackle crime , a sustainable solution require a preventive , community - lead and partnership - drive approach . in Birmingham , we have inspire example in organisation like Bringing Hope , which I have work with for many year , which work relentlessly to tackle knife crime among child and young people . similarly , the YMCA in Erdington be unwavere in its dedication to our young people . on my recent visit , I celebrate with they the purchase of 83 flat , ensure that young people have safe place to live and access to the support they need . initiative like those show we the way forward . we must create great aspiration and opportunity for young people , offer they a future beyond a life of crime . that require long - term investment in our community , our youth service and the organisation already make a difference , say that we can always go even far upstream to support family and end deprivation in community like mine . my nephew do not deserve what happen to he — nobody do . yet too many family be still leave to feel this pain , and too many young people be still become victim . we can no long afford to be complacent . every moment of inaction put another young life at risk . we must come together across the House and within our community to break this cycle of violence . I thank the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for bring forward this important debate and for his move speech . I also want to mention my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) — I be sorry for what happen to her family . Knife crime devastate community across the country as organise criminal gang lure child and young people into county line network and organised criminality . too many community have see child criminally exploit , and sadly we have see the devastating consequence of knife crime in my constituency . in Huddersfield , Khayri Mclean , 15 , and Harley Brown , 17 , sadly lose their life to knife crime in recent year . these be young life cruelly take too soon . too many parent be deal with consequence that no parent should have to face . community be leave break , and too many child and young people be leave with mental scar . the Home Secretary ' s announcement of Ronan ' s law , along with the launch of the coalition to tackle knife crime , the Young Futures prevention partnership and the Young Futures hub , be all welcome and important step forward . by introduce strict regulation on online knife sale and develop an extensive understanding of the root cause of knife crime , we be make it hard for young people to access those weapon in the first place and encourage different , safe pathway . the measure be welcome , but alone they will not be enough . hon . member have raise social medium company and the use of spotify by gang member and so - call influencer , whereby algorithm be unfortunately drive this divisive behaviour , but that can not be see in isolation from what be happen on the ground . Kirklees council , cover my constituency of Huddersfield , have see a 70 % decrease in funding for its youth service since 2010 . we know the loss of youth service have be link to a 14 % rise in youth crime within six year of the closure . we must invest in youth service , community outreach and early intervention . despite the difficult financial outlook , many incredible organisation support young people in my constituency , include Positive Stepz , Conscious Youth , central Stars youth club , Team KickStart , Yorkshire Community Development , Empower , Boxpower and Temple well - be . the deputy mayor of West Yorkshire have also introduce an A & E navigator and community link programme , as other member have mention . those help to identify and signpost young people to the right support network at the early opportunity . those organisation deliver outstanding community service to our young people , offer they experience , opportunity and environment that allow they to thrive . however , despite their good effort , the financial constraint that they face have result in many have to reduce their service . they continue to have to fight for small pot of funding , which be not sustainable in the long term . the evidence be clear : when youth service be cut , young people suffer . will the Minister provide detail of when the Young Futures hub will be introduce ? I be keen for Huddersfield and town like our to be early adopter , alongside city . we must also give community the tool to tackle this problem from the ground up . it be usually local people and local community who well understand the issue , but they often find themselves fight against the system rather than be support by it . no parent should ever have to bury their child , and no community should have to live in fear . I look forward to continue to work with member from across the House , alongside the Government , to stamp out this epidemic of senseless violence . I thank the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for bring this debate to the House , and I commend colleague for their powerful speech . it be clear that there be an undeniable consensus across the House on the need to get this right . however , consensus alone be not enough . a national crisis have devastate family and shattered future , and it continue to cause damage . the Office for National Statistics report 50 , 000 knife - relate offence in 2022 - 23 . in just one year , 50 , 000 life be affect , and there be 50 , 000 incident of fear , injury and , sadly for some , tragedy . in my Gillingham and Rainham constituency , we have several incident in recent year , include the stabbing of a 17 - year - old boy in the town centre by two other young people . member across the House will be familiar with visit local school in their constituency , and many will agree that student be often the tough crowd — never shy of ask direct and uncompromising question , with a grilling that would put any Select Committee to the test . time and again , however , one issue persist : safety . student ask I why they should feel afraid to walk through their high street in the evening , why their community do not feel safe , and why more be not be do to protect they . it trouble I that most of that stand in stark contrast to my own experience grow up in the very same community and in the same area . I wish to tell those student that the fear and the sense of abandonment that they feel today be not inevitable . some of it be the direct result of year of neglect . in reality , the Conservatives leave behind a legacy of cut and , at time , indifference to the future of young people across this country . they dismantle the very support system design to keep young people safe : £ 1 billion be strip from youth service , 760 youth centre be shut down , and 4 , 500 youth worker be lose . the evidence be clear : every £ 1 invest in youth work prevent great cost down the line . in view knife crime as the public health crisis that it truly be , we must recognise that the principle of upstream prevention have never be more pertinent . the truth be that by the time a young person pick up a knife , we have already fail they . that be why the Government ' s coalition on knife crime be a significant step in the right direction , allow we to get to the root cause of knife crime , not just the symptom . I also welcome the Home Secretary ' s commitment to bring back neighbourhood policing , which will work towards restore the trust and presence that have be dismantle . community such as mine be desperate for officer who will build relationship , prevent crime before it happen and reassure those who have lose faith . however , we can not arrest our way out of this crisis . we must invest in young people , not only to steer they away from crime but to offer they a future beyond it . like many other , I have binge - watch the compelling drama " Adolescence " , which highlight so well the toxic online culture that our young people be expose to . do my hon . friend agree that when we think about violence against woman and girl , and role model for young man , we need a great focus on protect the future of our young man , include by think about how we can help they to deal with the challenge they face , in order to make they safe and give they space within our community ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . we must support our young man . the start of that journey be to tackle the toxic and concern material find online . we must ensure that the social medium company , with their billion , be do the right thing in manage that content , which I do not believe they be do at the moment . we must tackle head - on that culture that seek to legitimise and glorify misogyny , gang violence and exploit vulnerability . we must prevent our young people from be drag into a cycle of harm before they even realise what be happen . this be our opportunity and our responsibility to work across party to break the cycle , rebuild what have be lose , and assure our community that never again will a generation grow up believe that carry a knife be their only protection , option and future . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for secure this important debate and for his powerful speech . the devastating impact of knife crime be feel at the heart of my Vauxhall and Camberwell Green constituency . the most heartbreaking thing I do as an MP be speak to a parent who have just hear that their precious son or daughter have be take away far too young by knife crime . no parent should have to bury their child . when I sit there try to comfort a family through something so horrific , I glance over their shoulder and see the picture of that smile face — of the innocent young life that have be rob . I should never have to get use to that , but we all have to do it as member of Parliament . my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) highlight some of the statistic , and as awful as they be in their own right , we must remember in talk about they that someone love every single one of they — a friend , an aunt , an uncle , a brother , a grandparent , a mother , a sister , a family . they be now devastate about lose someone who have barely start their life . let I touch on the wide impact of knife crime on community , which we do not focus on enough . when I be on the London Assembly , I author the " Gang Associated Girls " report , in which we consider the impact that knife crime can have on girl and young woman , who , if we be honest , may not often be view as the immediate victim of knife crime but who go through long - term trauma as a result of their experience . in a number of incident , it be young woman and girl who be the first at the scene . it be the same young woman and girl who help the community grieve . it be the same young woman and girl who organise the funeral . and when the glare of the medium have go and the incident be out of the news cycle , it be the same young woman and girl who go back to lay flower at the cemetery , remember the key anniversary . even if those young woman and girl be not present at hospital after knife crime , we must remember that this be also about their long - term trauma . it be important that we do not forget their voice in this debate . that be why we need a holistic approach to address this issue . the whole community need to come together if we be to break the vicious cycle of knife crime and the chain of trauma that impact so many of our young people , rob they of their future . it sadden I that just a few week ago there be a tragic shooting in my constituency , and in line of sight from a playground at a primary school be the blue line that say , " police line do not cross " . imagine the impact on those child . it be vital that we continue to work across party to address knife crime . it be not about politic ; it be about young people die on our street up and down the country . I be pleased to see the Government commit to the Young Futures programme , which will champion the vital youth worker who be the lifeline that many of these young people need . if we be honest , those youth worker have not be pay properly , and many have lose their job and see their youth centre close . we need to continue speak about this , and I know that the Government will continue to work with we to make sure we address the vicious cycle that be rob so many of our young people of their life . I congratulate the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) and all those who have work to secure this important debate on knife crime , which have be a deeply vexing issue in our society for decade . today , we be once again at a point where further action be need to save life , as we have hear in so many powerful contribution from member across the Chamber . I be pleased to see in the excellent briefing for the debate by the Safer Knives Group that Professor John Crichton of the Royal College of Psychiatrists in Scotland have bring his expertise to the work of that group . his study on knife crime reduction in Scotland show that the scottish violence reduction unit ' s strategy of target young man carry knife in public lead to a 69 % reduction in offensive weapon charge and a 50 % drop in sharp instrument homicide between 2005 and 2016 . these approach show that restrict immediate access to knife reduce offence and save life , but crucially , as other member have point out , they must be complement by preventive approach to knife crime focus on possession of knife among young people and on awareness . at the time of that important work be initiate , there be huge concern in Scotland about the level of knife crime . in 2010 - 11 , the police in Scotland catch someone with a knife every 90 minute . in 2009 , the Scottish Parliament hold a knife crime summit follow a petition bring to the Parliament by John Muir of Greenock , whose son Damian be murder with a knife in 2007 . it be a privilege for I to work alongside John in his campaign , in my role as shadow Justice Secretary in Holyrood at the time . although John ' s campaign do call for tough penalty for knife crime in sentencing , it also focus on the need to raise awareness of the trauma that so often follow someone ' s decision to carry a knife , for which there be often many complex reason , as we have hear today . John go into school to take his powerful personal message to young people , which really have an impact at the time . today in Scotland , sadly , there be a worrying trend on knife crime in the wrong direction . the crime statistic for Scotland show that in 2023 - 24 , there be nearly 11 , 000 offence of handling of an offensive weapon — an 11 % increase from the previous year — and there have be an increase in homicide . in Methil in my constituency , the community have be particularly disturb by social medium post of violent attack in the community . in one post , a young person brandish a knife , and they be later attack with a knife and slash in the face . the fear be that if further action be not take to address these incident , more young people will be seriously injure and could lose their life . Scottish Ministers must ensure that local police have the resource they need to deal with these incident , alongside the other intervention in the community that be require to support these young people . we must have the right legislation in place to restrict the sale of knife , so I welcome the measure bring forward by Ministers , particularly in the aftermath of the horrific attack in Southport , which my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) speak powerfully about . we be once more at a point where further measure be urgently need to protect our young people from knife crime in community across the UK . the impassioned call for action from those whose life have be devastate by these crime have be give voice by member across the Chamber , and my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) speak powerfully about her personal experience . this must move we all . I be confident that these voice have be hear and that this Parliament will act and do more to protect our young people from knife crime . Norfolk , as a rule , be a safe county with a generally low than average rate of crime . it be a wonderful place to live , and many people who grow up there , as I do , have a fantastic childhood , but that be sadly not the case for every young person . we face an increase challenge with the intertwining of knife crime and county line activity in our area , which be have a devastating effect , and I will focus my remark on that element . since become a Member of Parliament , I have meet Emma and Phil Dix , whose 18 - year - old son Joe be tragically stab to death in my constituency in 2022 . three young man be find guilty of his murder . Joe ' s parent have speak about how they feel Joe be exploit by county line drug dealer and become trap in a vicious cycle . I want to quote what Emma , his mum , have say : " I don ' t think we ' ve really tackle the root cause of why people be carry and use knife , particularly in Norfolk . unfortunately , we ' ve bury it under the sand for quite a while . some of it ' s go to be relate to mental health , exploitation and groom as well . we know that with a lot of incident cause through county - line , people win ' t go to the Police due to their fear of repercussion . " as the Minister know , the term " county line " refer to the mobile phone line use to take order of drug , and it have be strongly link to violent offence , include knife crime . I recently meet she to discuss this issue , and I welcome her engagement on it . it be also a focus for police in Norfolk . since its creation five year ago , Norfolk ' s county line team have reportedly investigate more than 200 phone line , with 213 charge and more than 570 year in prison sentence . I welcome that , because it be vital that those run these line , who so often cruelly exploit young people , be bring to justice . Emma and Phil have since set up the Joe Dix Foundation , and they have welcome the Government ' s plan to recognise child criminal exploitation as a stand - alone offence in the Crime and Policing Bill . they have also call for a national register for all perpetrator who be convict of child criminal exploitation , and I wonder whether the Minister could reply directly to that in her response . their story , like that of so many family across our country , underline why this Government ' s commitment to tackle knife crime be so important , and it be why I welcome this debate and thank the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for secure it . to tackle county line and knife crime among young people , we must focus on prevention , intervention , education and tackle the root cause . I welcome the recently launch coalition to tackle knife crime , which Emma and Phil be member of . it be a welcome collaboration , because it be only through listen to the voice of those on the ground that we will find solution to these issue . I recently hold a youth engagement forum with community group and young people across Norwich North , and the overall message be the importance of multiple organisation collaborate on early intervention measure to prevent young people from go down dangerous path and to give they opportunity . I agree strongly with the call for a public health approach . as a councillor in London , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , I see that at first hand , as well as the work of many community group there . in my constituency , organisation such as the Joe Dix Foundation , MAP , Norfolk YMCA , Sprowston Youth Engagement Project , Future Projects and the district council all do fantastic work , and I pay tribute to they . most importantly , we must listen to young people . young people at that roundtable raise a range of issue we have cover today , include the need for more youth - friendly space , the lack of opportunity for work experience and employment , and the need to tackle online harm . I particularly welcome the Young Futures programme and the hub that will be set up . only by take a holistic approach to combat knife crime will we begin to pull it out at its root . I be clear that collaboration with young people and those on the frontline be key . the Youth Endowment Fund have highlight many of the most effective solution when it come to reduce violent crime . we have the evidence . with this Government , we have the political will . we have consensus on both side of the House that we must work together to tackle knife crime , because none of we can sit back while precious life be be lose and young people ' s life be be destroy . I thank the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for secure this vital debate . knife crime among child and young people be some of the most devastating incident to occur in our constituency . last summer in Southend East and Rochford there be multiple machete attack on our beach and high street . that be incredibly troubling , and I set about meet the family and business affect . I be also currently in the process of commission a youth summit to see what we can do , and to find the gap in the community and the thing we do not know , through the eye and voice of our young people . as hon . member may or may not know , Essex be in the top 10 county for report knife crime . as parent , friend , and family member of young people , I be sure we all feel sheer horror when we hear about incident involve knife , and every single offence be one too many . as a young man , as a boy , I be attack a number of time with a knife , and I be very lucky to survive . it break my mum ' s heart , know that she could not protect I every time I leave the house , and that be one reason why — I have not share this story publicly too widely — I have spend the last 20 year mentor and support young people . I can see how hard it be traverse neighbourhood , and as my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) say , sometimes someone be just in the wrong place at the wrong time . knife crime ruin live , and this debate be particularly tough have known people , include childhood friend , who lose their life from knife crime or drug crime . I have sit in the living room talk to family who have lose a young person , and that be a scenario and set that no one ever want to go through . the pain that you see and feel emanating from the parent and family because of the loss of that young person be something you just can not describe . I wholeheartedly welcome our Labour Government ' s commitment to halve violent knife crime in a decade , and we have not waste any time to deliver on that commitment . Ronan ' s law introduce strict online sale regulation to prevent weapon from fall into the hand of young people . that include new offence such as possess a knife or an offensive weapon with intent , and it increase the maximum penalty for manufacturing , sell , hire or lend prohibit weapon . it create new offence of child criminal exploitation and cuckooing , which be often associate with county line . it be essential not only that we ban the selling of machete and sharp weapon , but that we make kitchen knife safe and have a strategy of prevention . young people in Southend East and Rochford , much like in other coastal community , face a unique set of challenge . the conversation today be not just about urban community , or even immigration ; it be about validation , self - esteem , boredom and role model , or the absence of they . such thing be huge contributing factor to what we see play out , with the violence that our young people be enact on each other . we have high unemployment and high level of health inequality , and we often feel the brunt of the lack of transport and connectivity . the change that the Government be propose can not come quickly enough . I rise to speak on behalf of my constituent across Luton South and South Bedfordshire who have sadly have to come together to stand against knife crime on too many occasion in recent year . there be consistent failure by the previous Conservative Government to toughen up legislation on dangerous weapon , as well as a failure to ensure proper funding for our police force . as we have hear from many member across the House , and I agree , sustain cut to youth service combine to allow a knife crime epidemic to take hold in our town and city . knife crime destroy life , devastate family and leave last trauma on community , and behind every one of the statistic be a person whose life remain ever change or , sadly , be needlessly lose . sadly , in Luton we be all too familiar with the devastation that knife crime cause , but perhaps I may reflect on one case : the shocking murder of Azaan Kaleem , AJ , in 2018 when he be just 18 . from darkness must come light , and AJ ' s mum , Roseann Taylor , be that light . I be honour to present she with a Knife Angel community award , to recognise her dedication and selflessness in use her own story as a mother who lose her son to raise awareness of the impact of knife crime , and for her ongoing work with young people in knife crime prevention . that award be name after the Knife Angel sculpture — an amazing statue over eight metre tall that be create from 100 , 000 surrender knife and base in Luton town centre last summer as part of its ongoing tour . it be a powerful symbol and catalyst for discussion about knife crime and violence , with the aim of educate and raise awareness , particularly among young people . as the Knife Angel leave our town , we mark the event with a vigil at St Mary ' s church , a candlelit walk of remembrance , and a closing ceremony in St George ' s Square . we remember all those lose to knife crime , and commit to eliminate that violence by inspire positive choice . lot of brilliant organisation be work to make that happen , while also deal with the sad reality of what continue to take place . bedfordshire violence and exploitation reduction unit ' s " just drop it " campaign be work with local partner to encourage our young people to take a bright path by go knife free . Wingman Mentors , who have work with Bedfordshire VERU , be instal lifesave bleed kit across our community as a step to try to avoid loss of life after a stabbing . similarly , the Luton , Dunstable & Surrounding Kenyan Community Forum youth group create a safe card , with help from the group ' s youth co - ordinator , Mwangi Muturi , which share vital information about what to do when help the victim of a stabbing . sadly , that be create follow the death of a young friend . unlike the Conservatives , our Labour Government have be ambitious in our mission to get knife off our street and ensure that people across our town and community be safe from violent crime , with our commitment to halve knife crime in a decade . our Labour Government have already ban the ownership of zombie - style knife and machete , and measure in our flagship Crime and Policing Bill will go far to crack down on knife crime . like other , I welcome the emphasis on prevention through our Young Futures programme and other initiative . tackle knife crime be also an important part of the police and crime plan of Bedfordshire ' s Labour police and crime commissioner , John Tizard , work jointly with Bedfordshire VERU . will the Minister inform the House whether any additional funding will be announce for Bedfordshire VERU to ensure that it can continue its excellent work to keep our local community safe ? take together , these measure will directly improve support for child and young people who be sadly often most at risk of be perpetrator , but also victim , of knife crime . I thank the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for secure this important debate . knife crime among child and young people be a national emergency that should shame we all . with 3 , 000 knife crime offence involve child report in the year end March 2024 , this crisis can not be ignore . each one of those offence represent a young person catch in violence — someone ' s son , someone ' s daughter , someone who deserve well . in Croydon , where we have some of the high rate of knife violence in London and where too many young people have lose their life , we know the impact of knife crime only too well . in Croydon , Elianne Andam , a 15 - year - old describe by those who love she as " vibrant , bright and loving " be take from her family on her way to school , in an act of violence that be beyond comprehension . too many young life have be take too soon , too many community be live in fear of the next tragedy and too many family be be leave in unimaginable grief . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to halve knife crime over the next 10 year and the urgency with which they be take action , include go after the criminal gang that be groom our child into crime and traffic they across the country , introduce Ronan ' s law to crack down on the online sale of knife , and ban zombie knife , however , it be not enough to be tough on knife crime — we must be just as tough on its complex cause . I welcome this Government ' s plan to roll out the Young Futures programme . as be often say , it take a village to raise a child , but with universal youth service see a 73 % cut in funding since 2010 and young people often stick for year on waiting list for child and adolescent mental health service , where be that village today ? what can young people point to that demonstrate that this country be willing to invest in they , to back they and to support they ? I urge the Government to move fast in prioritise the wellbeing of our child because , as be also say , if a child be not embrace by the village , it will burn it down to feel its warmth . in Croydon , in partnership with the Mayor of London , organisation be work tirelessly to provide support to young people and to rebuild that village around they . they include Redthread , which be work in Croydon University hospital ; the groundbreake my Ends programme ; reach Higher , which support young people in school , community and at home ; Croydon drop - In , which offer free mental health support ; and Croydon Youth Consortium , which be drive collaboration between local youth charity . Croydon be lead the way in give young people a stake in their community . however , due to impend budget cut Croydon , which be London ' s young borough , be on the verge of lose its youth engagement team . that team provide a critical link between the council , the voluntary sector and vulnerable young people across the borough . it provide outreach and run youth hub in hard - to - reach area . put simply , Croydon ' s youth engagement team save life . as the Government build their Young Futures programme and look to create a national youth strategy , I urge the Government to ensure that they work with and not against the grassroots organisation that know their community well , provide long - term funding for youth - centre provision in local area and look at increase statutory protection for local youth service , so that they be give the priority they deserve . Knife crime among child and young people be devastating , but not inevitable . now be the time to invest in prevention as well as enforcement , to listen to those work on the frontline of this crisis and to give our young people the support they need , because our community , family and young people deserve well . this be a timely debate , as Members consider the knife crime provision of the Crime and Policing Bill only last week . I congratulate the Backbench Business Committee on grant time for it , and thank the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for his compelling speech . we have hear some emotional speech , which show the empathy that member on both side of the House have for victim of knife crime and their family . over the year , I have meet constituent who have have their life irrevocably change by knife crime , whether it result in the murder or a love one or a serious injury . I have speak with mother who have lose their child , and adult child who have lose their elderly parent after they be stab to death . Knife crime can affect anyone , and the pain that the survive family member live with after such horrific event be palpable . the Minister will know that I want to talk about harm reduction ; I have speak about this in this House , and with she , on several occasion . two third of knife that have be identify as have be use to kill people be kitchen knife . that be in death where we know what the weapon be . that statistic should not be surprising ; many murder be unplanned and commit on the spur of the moment with little thought , and kitchen knife be the weapon most readily to hand . there have be much in the medium this week about the new Netflix drama series " Adolescence " , which be a commentary on the many problem face by young people grow up , not just knife crime , but it highlight how an easily accessible weapon can be use to cause devastation and change the course of many people ' s live forever . for year , bereaved family , support group , youth group and school have call for the Government of the day to do something tangible to stop this , and to allow child to have a childhood . their call be now join by prominent voice such as those of Idris Elba and Stephen Graham , the latter describe a " pandemic of knife crime " in our country . I know that this Government be listen and want to make a change , but we need to do it quickly and thoroughly . the previous Government ' s measure do not go far enough . the new measure in the Crime and Policing Bill go far , but more can still be do . there be a grow campaign to phase out kitchen knife with pointed tip as an everyday household item , and replace they with kitchen knife with rounded tip , as the hon . member for Huntingdon mention . it be well document that point knife be more likely to pierce vital organ and sever artery — injury that be far more likely to be fatal . rounded knife be much less likely to cause lethal injury , and most of we rarely use the pointed end of a kitchen knife when cook . the Crime and Policing Bill limit the purchase of new knife , but there be already million of pointed kitchen knife in drawer around the country . the safe knife group , of which I be a member , have suggest a pilot scheme to convert pointed kitchen knife into safe , rounded - tip knife . we need to encourage manufacturer to replace pointed knife with rounded knife , and to discourage the sale of pointed knife by create a price differential . as I have say , make knife safe be only one step in reduce the number of death and serious injury . education , intervention and support , follow the method of the Scottish Violence Reduction Unit , would produce long - term solution . it be also vital that we collect more datum on the type of knife use in any knife - relate crime . information , policy change , legislation and expert advice be all important , but it all have to lead to a change of behaviour , so that community stop kill each other with knife , and that must be a national priority . I know the Minister agree with I on that , but we must see action , and we all have to work on that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the epidemic of knife crime be an issue that I have address many time in this place , although never in a debate specifically target its impact on child and young people . I commend the hon . and gallant Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) on secure this debate on such a significant matter . in Britain , we face a hard truth : young people be increasingly involve in violent crime , and the cycle be become ever more entrenched . figure from the Ben Kinsella Trust show that across the country , some 614 young people under the age of 24 have be kill by knife crime in the last 10 year , 17 of they be 16 year old or young . child be be expose to the tragic normalisation of stabbing . we have sleepwalk into a scenario in which many young people feel it be safe and easy to carry a knife to defend themselves . in this context , threat of punishment be unsurprisingly fail to deter violent behaviour . Knife crime should be treat as the societal disease it be , and we can not afford to just treat the symptom any more . if this government be to truly tackle knife crime , they must address its root — the deep - seat factor that drive young people to such violence in the first place . to tackle knife crime , we must stop it before it start . we must use a public health approach that address the root cause : fear , trauma , lack of opportunity , and social exclusion . this approach have many tenet — some of which I will outline today — and begin with education . when young people carry knife , it be often out of fear , not necessarily a desire to harm other . a study by the Ben Kinsella Trust reveal that over one in three young people do not feel safe in their own community . some 36 % do not feel safe walk the street , and two third report anxiety over knife crime in their area . the teenage brain be wire differently from that of adult ; we know that a tendency towards impulsive and risky behaviour be much more common during adolescence . study show that in many case , knife crime occur in the heat of the moment , when an altercation could have be resolve without serious injury if a weapon have not be present . that be exactly why we must address knife crime before it happen — before a knife be pull from a pocket and the situation escalate beyond control . education can play a principal part in challenge the misconception that carry a knife somehow make a person safe . we can teach young people the real consequence of carry such a weapon — how it destroy life , impact family , and perpetuate fear among their peer and in community . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent speech that I think all of we across the House would agree with . I have speak a number of time with Harlow police about knife and knife crime , not just in Harlow but across Essex . they do a lot of work with school . do he agree that it be important that school fully engage with the police on these issue , and do not feel that there be stigma in do so ? all school need to engage with that process . I completely agree . I will come on to that later in my speech . I have speak to the organiser and leader of the Chris Donovan Trust in my constituency . they speak about the challenge of get into some school to talk about knife crime , because of the perception that talk about it be a problem in itself . that be so frustrating to hear . we need to have honest , open conversation with young people in school . teacher must be equip with material to educate the next generation , so that we break the cycle of violence . even if a child be not at risk of commit a knife - relate offence , educational programme serve a critical role . they can teach child about the consequence of knife crime long before they consider carry a weapon . that be vital . we need to reach young people and win the war for their heart and mind before the prevail climate of fear and the harbinger of toxic mindset start their offensive . I urge the Government to consider introduce mandatory personal , social , health and economic lesson on the consequence of weapon possession , and to put the principle of restorative practice on the curriculum , in recognition of the great work of group such as the Chris Donovan Trust in my constituency . we teach child from an early age about the danger of disease cause by smoking or alcohol ; why , then , be we not have open discussion with they about the health risk associate with carry a knife ? create safe space for discussion , and build relationship with young people , can ensure intervention before thought of crime arise , and death can be prevent . to fully realise the nourishing , community - focus element of a public health approach , though , we must invest in youth service and community programme that engage young people . win the war for heart and mind mean provide young people with opportunity to build skill , pursue education , and find alternative to gang culture and criminal activity . however , as be mention in many speech , we have see a dramatic decline in youth service fund over recent year , with cut total £ 1 . 1 billion since 2010 . this have leave too many young people without the support they need . invest in youth service be not just about provide safe space ; it be about provide young people with alternative to violence , so that we break the cycle of crime , shift the culture of violence , and empower community to work together to prevent crime before it escalate . the target early help and integrate support team at Sutton borough council in my constituency do exactly this kind of work , offer opportunity to young people who be not often afford the luxury of such attention elsewhere in their life . however , these programme rely heavily on grant from the Mayor ' s Office for Policing and Crime , the Ministry of Justice , and violence reduction service . those grant be subject to constant uncertainty , often approve at the last minute and often only allocate for 18 - month to two - year period , prevent proper forward planning . we must do well than that . we need to consistently get serious funding to these initiative in a timely manner . I echo the call from the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) about fund for these community scheme . Lib Dem Members will continue to push the Government to make youth diversion a statutory duty , so that every part of the country have a pre - charge diversion scheme for young people up to the age of 25 . that will ensure well outcome for young people and less strain on police resource , but let we be honest with ourselves : police resource be already strain beyond break point in too many place , and education and early intervention alone be not enough to properly implement a public health approach . visible community police start with actual police number in our London borough . to tackle knife crime , it be important for young people to see bobby on the beat in London . their active and engaged presence create a sense of safety and security . we have to get back to meaningful community police , return the police to their proper duty as a positive , engaging arm of the state in people ' s life . build trust between young people and the police be also crucial . this trust communicate that there be no need to carry knife for protection , as young people know that the police be there to keep they safe . as I have say before , when 17 - year - old Ilyas Habibi be stab to death outside Sutton station in my constituency in December 2023 , he be just minute away from a police station . if we can not expect visible policing in town centre and the area close to police station , how little have we come to expect of community police ? to be clear , that be not a criticism of the police , but a criticism of successive government and mayor , who have consistently fail to get the police the resource they need to do their job . in London , far too many police be abstract away from the community they be suppose to serve to help plug gap . I be deeply concerned to learn of Sadiq Khan ' s budgeting decision , which have lead to dedicated police officer in school in London be remove . under the " a New Met for London " plan , officer will no long be station in school as part of the safe school officer programme . while the plan claim that officer will still work closely with school , the change reduce the consistent direct contact between officer and young people . that contact be crucial in build relationship with young people to foster trust . there should be plenty of positive interaction and experience with the police throughout young people ' s formative year . that can be achieve through school assembly or classroom workshop . young people need to understand that the police be there to keep they safe on the street and be not the enemy , but when sparse police resource be focus on only the most extreme form of deterrence , such as live facial recognition and stop and search , and when there be no community focus , it be unsurprise that they do not . the hallmark of a meaningful public health approach that invest not just money , but serious political capital , be that it bring together all group in our community . it create a coalition of care , break down the silo between project , and build a team across society commit to do what it take to rescue young people . on behalf of countless expert , professional and parent , and on behalf of young people , I implore the Government to build that team , to create that coalition of care and to finally implement a meaningful public health approach to knife crime . I call the shadow Minister . first and foremost , I pay my respect to all those mention today who have lose their life due to knife crime , and to their family . too many family and community have be and be be tear apart by knife crime . I welcome the constructive , compassionate and collaborative approach that member from all part of the House have take to the debate . this matter be far too important , and the impact be far too devastating , for anything but a share focus on address and reduce this most violent of crime . we can not allow ourselves to be back here in a few year with more name and more story , but no meaningful progress . no family , friend or school should lose a love one to knife crime , yet far too often , that be the reality . as other have do , I put on record my gratitude and admiration to our courageous police officer across the country who work tirelessly and fearlessly to help keep we and our community safe . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for secure this vital debate , and for its emphasis on knife crime among young people . we all recognise the prevalence and impact of knife crime as a whole , but the nuance that affect young people be integral , and develop an understanding of this problem — both as it stand today and as it will develop in the future — be important . as my hon . friend and other hon . member have say , the world that young people occupy be multilayere . it be a hybrid of online and offline , where boundary merge , coercion persist and the reality of the consequence of action be too often overlook until it be too late . young people be be expose to thing at a much young age than ever before , and the impact of normalising , and desensitise they to , crime and violence be still not fully understand . although the number of hospital admission for knife crime have decline from its peak , the figure remain far too high . we know the impact that knife crime have on young people , so we must work to get knife out of perpetrator ' hand . thank to research by the Youth Endowment Fund , we have a relatively clear picture of knife crime rate among young people . a small but by no mean insignificant number of young people carry offensive weapon . in the last two year , 5 % of the 13 to 17 - year - old survey admit to carry offensive weapon , 47 % of which be knife . this illustrate that while only a minority of those involve in serious offence be knife carrier , their impact on community be significant . of course , that be a nationwide figure , and rate will be significantly high in part of the country where knife crime be especially prevalent . over the past decade , a number of step have be take to reduce knife crime . although violence against the person have decrease significantly since 2010 , knife crime remain stubbornly high . this suggest that specific , targeted action be require to reduce knife crime offence , particularly among young people . much - need measure to close loophole and introduce restriction on zombie knife be put forward and pass under the last government , and implement by the current one . additionally , I welcome the measure in the Crime and Policing Bill that replicate those in the last Government ' s criminal justice Bill by place more stringent rule on knife possession and expand police power . three key measure outline in the Bill — the creation of an offence of possess a bladed item with intent to harm , the increase in the maximum penalty for sell weapon to under - 18 , and the power to seize , retain and destroy bladed article — have all rightly be include . increase the penalty for those sell knife to under - 18 be clearly a step forward in enforce strict law and protect young people . ensure that there be penalty for a range of weapon be use by young people be vital , as the police have highlight that individual use social network specifically to advertise a range of weapon to under - 18 . Stephen Clayman ' s review provide a detailed assessment of the online sale of knife . I understand that the measure draw from the assessment will be introduce as amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill , so it would be useful to hear from the Minister what impact she believe they will have on knife sale . do she expect a significant reduction in accessibility for those who currently acquire weapon online ? when consider online sale , we must not be naive . datum show that a significant number of weapon hold by young people be kitchen knife , which , as note by my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon , be widely accessible . as member of different party have highlight today , engagement , prevention and police intervention be crucial tool in not only prevent individual from commit crime but protect young people , who be far too often the victim of offence commit by their peer . stop and search save life and must play a role in address and prevent incident of knife crime , by disrupt and remove weapon from the street . the police must have the necessary power to prevent crime , because far too many life be be violently cut short . research publish in the Oxford Journal of Policing find that attempt murder could be reduce by 50 % through stop and search . know that the police can stop and search be a powerful deterrent . I thank the shadow Minister for her comment . yes , the police have a vital role to play in deal with knife crime . do she agree that our youth worker , who work with some of the most vulnerable young people up and down the country , be also a key defence in stop knife crime ? in some instance , young people who be catch up in a vicious cycle of crime trust youth worker more than they trust the police . I thank the hon . member , who be so engaged and invest in this issue , for her comment . youth worker , teacher and guardian — anyone whom a child trust — be important in address this issue , and we must ensure that everybody have the power and that society have the power need to address knife crime . any action that help reduce knife crime be an action that we should be look at . as well as stop and search , emerge technology — for example , device that allow the detection of knife at a distance and in crowded street — could allow officer to more precisely identify and remove knife from would - be perpetrator . alongside enforcement , prevention and early intervention require attention , and the Conservatives do make advance on that while in government . between 2019 and 2024 , violence reduction unit be fund in area of England and Wales where there be a prevalence of violent crime . accord to Home Office evidence , these have lead to a statistically significant reduction in hospital admission for violent injury . since the funding begin , an estimate 3 , 220 hospital admission for violent injury have be prevent in these fund area . we must also ensure that the police have the ability to be in the right place at the right time . as we have hear from member across the House , too often it be be in the wrong place at the wrong time that lead to injury through knife crime . this be particularly crucial for young people , who congregate in hotspot area , so ensure that our police force have the resource to increase patrol and increase their presence in such area play a key role in both prevention and response . I acknowledge that the Government have place significant emphasis on the delivery of Young Futures hub to identify the young people most at risk of be draw into crime . while we all recognise the benefit of provide support to young people , the effectiveness of the hub will depend on implementation . resource must be distribute effectively to ensure that young people receive the support they need , particularly give the range of activity that the Government intend the hub to carry out alongside the reduction in knife crime . may I therefore ask the Minister how the hub will be structure , and what work will take place outside their physical space to ensure effective engagement and early intervention ? we have see police and crime commissioner use their independence to explore programme that can provide early intervention . for instance , Thames Valley PCC Matthew Barber ' s Operation Deter Youth ensure that youth offend service make contact with under - 18 arrest for weapon or violent offence within 90 minute of notification of arrest , follow by a house visit within 48 hour . I be not ask the Minister to be prescriptive , but will she ensure that police force have the Government ' s back to trial innovative technique such as knife scanning and new preventive technique to help save young life ? fundamentally , what be her plan to change the mindset that have develop that enable child to stab and murder other child ? reduce knife crime among young people be a critical task for this and any Government . when we hear the name that we have hear today of some of the many — too many — young life that have be lose to knife crime , we be remind that these be not just statistic , but devastating event that bring untold anguish to family . we must do everything possible to bring down the number . let I start by thank the hon . and gallant Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for secure this debate on an issue that matter enormously to we all . as ever , his opening speech be , as be his way , eloquent , thought - provoke and challenging . it range widely , include on the role of social medium — he refer specifically to drill rapper ' music influence child and young people . I refer he to the important work of Project Alpha base in the Met , and the role that the Online Safety Act 2023 will have as its provision come into force , along with Ofcom . there have be many insightful and heartfelt speech , and I be grateful to every member who have speak . in particular , I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , who speak on behalf of the victim ’ family . I be sure the whole House would like to thank the parent of child a in the horrific Southport attack for what they have to say . my hon . friend the Members for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) and for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) all speak with such knowledge , and they have do a huge amount in their local area to tackle knife crime . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) speak in a very personal way about the attack on her nephew , and how it have affect he and her family . again , I hope the whole House will wish her nephew well in recover from that attack . my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) give we the scottish perspective . it be always useful to hear what be happen in other part of the United Kingdom . my hon . friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) speak very personally about be the victim of knife crime . my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) have speak to I at length about harm reduction and rounded kitchen knife , and I reassure he that nothing be off the table when it come to tack the scourge of knife crime and save young life . the Home Office be consider a proposal on rounded kitchen knife . before I deal with many of the issue raise this afternoon , I want to comment on the prevail message of the debate . no matter what side of the House we sit on , whatever party we belong to and whatever constituency we represent , we can all agree that knife crime cause enormous harm in our community . it be destructive and all too often deadly . too often , those affect be teenager and young people with the rest of their life ahead of they . we all know that when someone carry a knife or a dangerous weapon , the potential for bloodshed be always only ever second away and each fatal stabbing trigger a trail of devastation . first and foremost , there be the victim deprive of his or her future . then there be the victim ' s family , leave to come to term with the most unimaginable loss . there be also an impact on the wide community when these incident occur . while we discuss policy , legislation and initiative , we must always keep the individual and the family affect at the forefront of our mind . on that note , I take the opportunity to say that my thought and prayer be with all those who have suffer as a result of knife crime . I also thank all our police and emergency service worker who have to deal with knife crime in our community . will my right hon . friend join I in recognise the great work do by PCSOs Nikki , Demi , Gavin and other in my constituency to prevent knife crime , and the Reel Rod Squad in Bedworth , which encourage young people to put down knife , take up fishing rod and enjoy the peace of the water instead ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for tell the House about the excellent work in her constituency , in particular the role of the pcso . time be short and a lot of question be raise with I . if I do not have the chance to answer all of they , I will write to hon . member specifically . the House will know that , under the safe street mission lead by the Home Secretary , we be drive a whole - of - Government approach to halve violence against woman and girl , halve knife crime , and restore confidence in the policing and justice system . as a part of that , the plan for change set out our key reform to strengthen neighbourhood policing , tackle antisocial behaviour and improve public confidence in law enforcement . on offensive weapon , any effective response must include action to get dangerous knife and weapon out of circulation and off our street . we have already demonstrate our commitment to put in place strong control in the month since the general election . we implement the ban on zombie - style knife and zombie - style machete on 24 September . it be now illegal to sell or own those weapon . furthermore , we commit in our manifesto to ban ninja sword . we have consult on the legal description and be progress our plan to bring forward an effective ban later this year . a number of hon . member refer to online sale . we be clear that we need strong check in place to prevent under - 18 from be able to purchase knife online , which be why , last October , the Home Secretary commission Commander Stephen Clayman , as the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead for knife crime , to carry out a comprehensive review into the online sale and delivery of knife , which be publish on 19 February . we be take immediate action on a number of key recommendation from the report . we have also announce Ronan ' s law , name after Ronan Kanda , who be fatally stab in June 2023 , follow dedicate campaigning by his mum , Pooja Kanda . Ronan ' s law will comprise a range of measure include require online retailer to report any bulk or suspicious - look purchase of knife to the police , and the introduction of a new offence of possess an offensive weapon with intent for violence . the Home Secretary have also announce that the Government intend to strengthen age verification control and check for all online seller of knife at the point of purchase and on delivery . as raise by the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green , we will be bring forward amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill to enact our manifesto commitment to introduce personal liability measure for executive of online company that fail to take action against illegal knife and offensive weapon content . the coalition to tackle knife crime , announce by the Prime Minister in September 2024 , bring together campaign group , family of those who have tragically lose their life to knife crime , young people who have be impact and community leader , unite in their mission to save life . it be important that we have the live experience of young people in that coalition , and we be work with our member organisation to ensure they have a platform to hear those young voice share their view , idea and solution for make Britain a safe place for the next generation . many of my hon . friend have refer to Young Futures hub and prevention partnership , include my hon . friend the Members for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) and for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) . we know that too many child and young people today be face poor life outcome , include become involve in knife crime , because they be not effectively identify and support early on . this can be cause by limited life opportunity or because they be particularly vulnerable . to address these issue , we have commit to the creation of the Young Futures programme , which will establish a network of Young Futures hub and prevention partnership to intervene early on , to ensure that this cohort be identify and offer support in a more systematic way . the Young Futures hub will bring together the support service that tackle the underlying need of vulnerable child and young people , make they more accessible to those who need they . the hub will promote child and young people ' s development , improve their mental health and wellbeing , and prevent they from be draw into crime . the Young Futures prevention partnership will identify child and young people who be vulnerable to be draw into crime and violence , include knife crime , antisocial behaviour and violence against woman and girl , and divert they by offer they effective and evidence - base support in a more systematic way . I will refer briefly to county line and child criminal exploitation , which be refer to by a number of hon . member . county line be the most violent model of drug supply and be a harmful form of child criminal exploitation . through the county line programme , we be and will continue to target exploitative drug dealing gang and break the organise criminal group behind the trade . we know that knife play a huge part in that . [ interruption . ] I can see , Madam Deputy Speaker , that you want I to conclude . there be so much more to say on this , but , in conclusion , I again want to congratulate the hon . member for Huntingdon on secure this debate . we have to get a grip of what be , as we say in our manifesto , a national crisis . the public want change and we be determined to deliver it . I call Ben Obese - Jecty to wind up quickly . knife crime among child and young people have , for too long , be a stain on this country and our community , and a blight on our collective social conscience . the increase involvement of child , both as perpetrator and victim , can not and should not be ignore . it be this , at its heart , that collectively we must change , and I look to the Government to grasp the nettle on that . although the public health approach that they be likely to adopt have merit , there be need for a sustained , impassione intervention to prevent our child from become murderer , and to remove this fictional threat that they be buy into to make they feel safe even when they actually already be . I thank all member who have speak for take the time to contribute to this important debate , and for pay tribute to those who have lose their life . I be pleased that we have be able to put heat and light on some of the often overlook aspect of the cause of this issue and on the potential solution too . there be much to do in address the root cause of this issue , and we have try to cover myriad factor as broadly as we can , but I be conscious that this topic be too broad to solve in just one debate . I hope that , collectively , we have raise issue that give the Government pause to consider when develop their own strategy to achieve their aim . I would dearly love it if none of we ever have to raise the issue of knife crime in this House again . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of knife crime amongst child and young people . Coastal Communities I beg to move , that this House have consider coastal community . I be delighted to be lead my first ever debate in this Chamber , on the vital topic of coastal community . I be very grateful to member from across the House who support my application for the debate , and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . this be the first debate on coastal community of this new Parliament , and it could not come soon enough . there be a number of traditional divide into which people break our country : rural versus urban ; affluent versus deprive ; industrial versus agrarian . however , the divide between coastal and inland community be often overlook , yet this divide have wide - range impact and lead to a unique situation for these area . in fact , many of my constituent in North Norfolk may share far more similar experience with our coastal sibling in Cornwall , almost eight hour away , than with those just half - an - hour down the road in Norwich . what coastal community across the country often feel be that , despite the incredible contribution they make to our country economically , culturally and environmentally , the system be not work for they . our health and economic outcome be poor than those of our inland neighbour . our environment be battle the challenge of climate change , coastal erosion and the sewage dump scandal . but , despite that , the Government do not seem to think that we be worthy of proper representation in the form of a dedicated coastal community Minister . I turn now to the health challenge face by our coastal community . in 2021 , Professor Sir Chris Whitty publish a landmark report into the health outcome in seaside town and coastal community . what he uncover be shocking . we have high rate of poor health and disease . the rate of cardiovascular disease and cancer be high , and those diagnose with these disease have poor outcome . they also suffer with they for long . datum show that , on average , resident in Hull live more than 25 % of their life in poor health — around a quarter more than the national average . that result in a low quality of life and wellbeing , a great reliance on the health service , and short live overall . the work of Hull ' s public health department , under the leadership of Mike Ross and the Liberal Democrat - lead council there , to tackle these challenging statistic be commendable , but coastal health inequality need to receive more direct government attention . the disparity in life expectancy that be find be particularly shocking . I want to take member on a brief tour of my Norfolk neighbour to outline this point for they . to the east of my constituency be Great Yarmouth , and to the south be Broadland . these area be very nearby , they share similar amenity in many situation , and they have share frustration with the A47 . however , a baby bear in Great Yarmouth have a life expectancy four year short than that of one bear just over the border in Broadland . both these baby would be proud Norfolk resident , both live within touching distance of our Broads national park , both may even grow up sit in adjacent seat at Carrow Road football ground , but the challenge that we face in coastal town and community mean that there would be a disparity in their health , in their wellbeing and even in how long they live . for community so nearby , so similar , this can not be see as an acceptable status quo . our coastal community deserve to live long , well , healthy life than they do now . North Norfolk face its own coastal health challenge . we have lose the Blakeney surgery , which serve many coastal village with otherwise poor transport link . Benjamin Court reablement centre have be close down — for now — remove a vital asset that allow local people to recover outside of hospital and nearer their family . cromer hospital also need the support and funding to provide more service close to our coastal community , prevent they from have to travel to Norwich for vital healthcare . Professor Whitty point out that coastal community share many more of these challenge with each other than with their inland neighbour . it be clear to he that action need to be take . we all listen to he when he be on our tv screen during the pandemic , and I hope that the Government will take his advice just as seriously now . our coastal community be major economic driver . we have a thriving tourism industry , which contribute £ 17 billion a year to our economy before the pandemic strike . it support hundred of thousand of job across the country . our hospitality industry play host to talented hotelier , chef , publican , chip shop owner and many more . a visit to the Blakeney hotel , enjoy lobster and crab at Rocky Bottoms in West Runton , a pint at the Hill House in Happisburgh , or some dessert at Crumble Crib in Sheringham , be all excellent idea for anyone take a trip to our part of the world . tourist have be do this for century . Jane Austen sing the praise of Cromer in my constituency in " Emma " , describe it as " the good of all the sea - bathe place " , although I must say that the whole of North Norfolk qualify for that level of praise . my constituency could not be further from the sea . however , I have spend many happy holiday in Cromer and Sheringham , and I be delighted that he have be return to the House as the representative of those wonderful community . will he tell I how wonderful Cromer , Sheringham and the North Norfolk coast be ? I prefer to swim in the sea in Sheringham rather than Cromer — do he agree ? I make absolutely no comment on the latter question , but I welcome the hon . member ' s contribution — no advance sight be give of my speech . her presence here serve to remind we all that it be not just mp represent coastal community who have a stake in their prosperity . I thank she for she almost perfectly time word . in more recent time we have the 2024 pier of the year in Cromer . the excellent North Cottage in Cromer , run by Andrea and Jerry , be recently award self - cater accommodation of the year at the Suffolk and Norfolk tourism award . cromer also play host to a Banksy artwork from his 2021 tour of the east coast . the artwork , of a queue of hermit crab look on at empty shell , highlight one of our great challenge in coastal community : second home and the wide housing crisis . in North Norfolk we have be plague by huge number of second home and empty home . outside the City of London , we have the high number of empty or infrequently use home in all of England . these property be carve the core out of many small and historical community , and in too many case contribute very little back . our poor be sit on ever grow waiting list , while the rich treat our coastal village as a setting for a Jane Austen - era summer jaunt , leave they to suffer for the rest of the year . in Wells - next - the - Sea , 40 % of the town be second home and holiday let . in some part , only one in 10 home be someone ' s main residence . I be delighted that , after year of lobbying , we be able to levy a 100 % council tax increase on those second home . that will bring in £ 1 . 7 million for the district council , allow it to support more affordable housing and provide homelessness service . Jane Austen mention not only Cromer but Ramsgate — in " Pride and Prejudice " — although certainly in a less salubrious way than she may have refer to Cromer . Ramsgate and Wells - next - the - Sea share the concern that the hon . Member mention about short - term holiday let . do he support the call that many colleague and I have make for not just a registration scheme but a licensing scheme for short - term holiday let , in order for local authority to be able to control and shape their own local economy ? it be not ideological ; we must be pragmatic in these thing . the right sort of holiday let can bring in welcome tourism to North Norfolk , but there be a safety issue regard regulation , which I be very sympathetic to . I would be very interested in talk in more detail about our share interest in this matter at another time . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this important debate that affect so many constituency around the country . in Sea View Street in Cleethorpes there have be a noticeable uptick in the number of Airbnbs . that street have a unique identity , and the Airbnbs be take away from the impact of local business and the local tourist trade , because they be use those shop fa ç ade . do he think that more should be do to reduce the Airbnbs and protect the unique identity of some of these shopping street ? I do think that more should be do . it be a classic example both of unintended consequence from the explosion of a successful tech platform that be originally design for people to let out spare room and be now a mainstream booking platform , and of the inevitable fact that legislation move more slowly than life . again , I would be interested in a further discussion on that topic , which affect we both . in Cornwall — we be not alone in the struggle — about 14 , 000 second home be sit empty , while it be also in the midst of a critical housing crisis . be the hon . Member surprise to hear that Reform be campaign locally in Cornwall against second home , yet nationally it vote against taxis on second home ? I thank the hon . member for his contribution . I be a little surprised . I be not too familiar with reform ' s tax policy , but I be not sure whether that be just I or most of we . nevertheless , I hope that I have do my neighbour , the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , a favour by raise some of the challenge in his constituency . I be sure that he will be most supportive of whatever be in its good interest . cornish Liberal Democrats , include my hon . friend the Members for St Ives ( Andrew George ) and for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) , be fight hard on this issue , to their great credit , as be many in the House . our coastal economy do , however , face struggle . from 2009 to 2018 , half of coastal town see a decline in employment compare with only 37 % of inland community . we have much high rate of self - employment and part - time employment and , by the nature of our tourist - drive economy , we have significant seasonal variation as well . many small local business be deeply concerned that , after year of feeling leave behind , increase to national insurance could squeeze they even far ; for some , it might be the final straw . our economy be also change to meet the opportunity of the future . coastal community have be at the forefront of the renewable energy revolution and be key part of the manufacturing process for wind turbine or host the site where the cable for their energy make landfall . in Bacton in my constituency , there be amazing opportunity for carbon capture and storage and for hydrogen generation as we undergo a green transition . our coastal community have so much economic potential and opportunity just wait to be unlocked . I hope that the Government can support and enable they to flourish in the year to come . one of the most special thing about our coastal community be the environment that they possess . visitor to salthouse marsh in my constituency might be lucky enough to catch a glimpse of the migratory snow bunting . move north , in Holkham and over the border in Holme dune live some of the ever - decrease number of natterjack toad . those be precious , unique and environmentally important landscape and area , but they face significant challenge , too . anyone who live in a coastal community will have be furious at the shameful sewage scandal , which have be unfold for year . the tainting of precious beach through the dumping of raw sewage by water company be a national disgrace and show no regard for the importance of the coast to its wildlife and resident . I be delighted by the work that we have do locally to secure blue flag beach for much of North Norfolk , but there be still so much to do . the hon . member talk about the environmental challenge of our coastal community , one of which be that many of they face thousand of pylon along hundred of mile move electricity from one place to another . do he agree that we need to find a way to put those cable underground to protect our beautiful coastal community ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention , and I be pleased to associate myself with the sentiment behind his remark . I think it be my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , when he be Energy Minister in the coalition , who scope out the possibility of an offshore ring main for East Anglia , which be an even well solution than try to bury cable under the ground . our coastal community be also on the frontline in face down the effect of climate change . I have speak many time in Parliament about the coastal erosion that we face in North Norfolk — I make no apology to hon . member for sound like a broken record — but , as a result of man - make climate change , North Norfolk ' s coastline village such as Happisburgh , Trimingham and Overstrand be rapidly be claim by the North sea . we be not alone in this fight , as community along the North sea coast be face similar worry , and new modelling show that the concern be more widespread than previously think , with area of the south - west now under threat of erosion too . my constituent look at project such as the Thames barrier , where we have rightly take bold step and build infrastructure to protect community from the effect of rise sea level and extreme weather event , and wonder whether the Government would deliver the same level of attention to they . I will not allow our community to be leave behind or write off . we must fight climate change and mitigate its impact , which we be already face . a fantastic book by Madeleine Bunting , " the Seaside : England ' s Love Affair " , chart the story of our seaside town over the past several decade . it be a story of decline that must be reverse , but it be also a story of hope and resilience . I can absolutely see the balance she describe : the fragility of life cling to the cliff , but also the social strength , the raw beauty and the economic opportunity . support our local coastal economy do not have to mean billion in investment ; it need advocacy and action at the top table and the right support from Government to help people help themselves . Madeleine Bunting give the Reynolds lecture in 2023 and make this salient point : " seaside town don ' t fit into the public debate about the North South divide . nor have their decline ever dominate the national narrative in the way that inner city do in the 80 as a focus of public policy or like the former mining and industrial town . seaside town have be leave to struggle with their own decline . " I have cover just some of the key pillar of the challenge that our coastal community face , as well as their resilience and our opportunity as a whole country to support they . what frustrate I greatly be that despite the wide - range and various challenge , responsibility for support they be fragment and siloe across Government . I be delighted to see the Minister in his place ; however , his remit contain only the community aspect of our coastal community . we have unique health challenge , economic challenge and opportunity of major environmental importance . our coastal community be too important to be bit part of different portfolio , and we urgently need to take a holistic approach to support they , understand how the different factor interact with one another . we need to be able to see and understand the impact of economic outcome on health and wellbeing and how environmental challenge and renewable energy opportunity can go hand in hand . that be why I have be call for the creation of a Minister for coastal community to give we a specific representative , speak up for our area in Government . that call have cross - party support , with mps from across the House support it in the previous Parliament . I hope that the wide range of Members present today show the Government that a similar consensus still exist for get we a seat at the table and make the need and opportunity of coastal community hear and act upon . I will draw my remark to a conclusion , as I be keen and excited to hear the contribution from all those present about what make their community so special . I hope that everyone will think about how coastal community have impact their life : whether as a summer holiday destination , a weekend getaway , a university town or the place they have call home for generation . let we think about why they matter to we and what they have give to we all , not just in economic contribution but in memory and in experience . there be the memory from holiday with family and love one ; the laughter and smile at build sandcastle on our beach as a child or with child of our own ; the timeless enjoyment of windswept fish and chip warm we as we watch the wave crash against the shoreline ; the way that Turner or Constable capture coastal beauty in their art work ; and coastal walk , arcade , swimming , surfing and even seal spot . let we remember what coastal community have give to we . today , we can come together and make sure that we give back to they , protect they and let they create many more memory for generation to come . member will have notice that there be a lot of people on their foot want to speak , so I will try and get as many people in as I can . I be impose an immediate three - minute time limit . for nearly four decade , our seaside town have shape the outcome of election . yet , despite that significance , we have be overlook , struggle with deprivation , economic decline and crumble infrastructure . the crisis be particularly evident in my constituency of Blackpool North and Fleetwood , which bear the scar of deindustrialisation and the decline of the fishing industry . income deprivation be rampant , job opportunity be limited , health inequality be stark and our infra - structure be in disrepair . coastal resident , on average , earn £ 2 , 800 less than those inland , and crime and antisocial behaviour be 12 % high . our health crisis be also dire , with resident 15 % more likely to suffer an early , preventable death . cancer mortality rate be 9 % high on the coast , and our rate of respiratory disease be three time the national average . our coastal property be also a third cheap , lead to more house in multiple occupation and poor living condition . these challenge be not abstract number ; they be the lived reality of family struggle to make end meet , young people seek opportunity that do not exist , and community suffer from the daily impact of " dirty business " and historical contamination . Labour be work to reverse that with its ambitious plan to grow the economy and its commitment to fix the NHS . Blackpool North and Fleetwood be found on ambition . our forefather envision thriving model seaside town , combine prosperity , tourism and industry . yet , sadly , today they be a shadow of that vision . it be time to restore that ambition with real investment and leadership . the Government ' s move towards regulatory reform be essential , but our community be impatient . they have be let down for too long and need to see tangible delivery now . to truly deliver , we need a Minister for coastal community . coastal community face unique challenge that require a dedicated voice in government — a Minister who understand our specific need and ensure they be address through a co - ordinated , strategic approach to investment and regeneration . while top - down reform provide essential structural change , they must be match by bottom - up solution shape by local knowledge and intelligence . a Minister for coastal community could help we seize private sector investment in the clean energy transition to enable growth now , revitalise our dock , improve transport link and create long - term sustainable employment . coastal community have be part of this country ' s success for generation . it be time we give they the investment and leadership they deserve , or we risk lose they forever . as a native of a coastal community in Devon , I be well verse in the challenge that live there present . however , we must also highlight the opportunity its present . it be all too easy to depict coastal town , city and community as run down and tired — place where people retire or only have work six month of the year when the tourist roll in . while there be undoubtedly a lot of truth in that , there be also a huge amount to value and celebrate about our coastal community , because if there be not , why would people flock from right across the country and , indeed , the world to visit ? my constituency of South West Devon have the significant suburb of Plymouth , Plympton and Plymstock , and swathe of the coastal South Hams and Dartmoor . the challenge the coastal community in my constituency face be much like those elsewhere , include housing for local people and transport connectivity . my hon . friend have begin what I be sure will be an exquisite speech , and she hit the nail on the head when she talk about transport connectivity . one of the great problem that unite all our coastal community be that it be difficult to get anywhere . for a community like mine in Dumfries and Galloway , it be 80 mile to the near hospital . perhaps rather than a new Minister look at coastal community , we need exist Transport Ministers to put their foot down . my hon . friend make a valuable point , and although my constituency be a long way from his , we too have significant problem with transport . we be on a peninsula , and if the train stop , we can not get in or out , so I completely understand the need for a focus on transport . we also have the health and education inequality that have be mention , and the new Government ' s attack on business with increase employer national insurance contribution . that affect not just business but our local St Luke ' s hospice and vital community pharmacy such as Tubbs in Newton Ferrers . the change to business and agricultural property relief be also threaten the future of long - stand family business . arguably , one of the big opportunity for South West Devon be the continue growth of the marine autonomy hub at Turnchapel Wharf in Plymstock . with over 300 year of history as a shipyard and naval base , it be sell 20 year ago by the Ministry of Defence and buy by Yacht Havens group . over the last 12 year , it have invest in the hub and attract more and more marine - base business , with a specific focus on marine autonomy , develop autonomous vessel for the future of scientific surveying , defence and humanitarian work at sea . the development highlight some of the unique opportunity we can have in the coastal community of South West Devon and Plymouth . with the easy and quick access from land to deep water in the country , my constituency be perfectly place for business look to do sea trial underwater — a niche but essential opportunity for our local coastal community . last Friday , Thales deliver the first end - to - end autonomous maritime mine - hunt system to the Royal Navy from my constituency . the project be part of the Organisation for Joint Armament Co - operation , and it have serve the french navy as well as the Royal Navy . it be vital , however , that we do not fall into the trap of look at coastal community solely through the lens of build - up area , town and city . the coastal community in my constituency have a wide range of identify factor . as the Government ' s local government reorganisation work progress and council across the country consider how they can well serve their own interest , it be important that they look at the interest of the place that they seek to absorb . Edging Plymouth , a unitary authority with its own proud identity , with part of Devon county council and two district council will mean a very different future for much of my constituency , but take in the rural character of community such as mine be essential . although the population of town and city such as Plymouth may significantly outnumber the population in the rural part , it be essential to place value on both population size and land mass . identity matter , and people often choose to live where they do to be close to the sea , but that do not always mean that they be in build - up town and city . local government reorganisation must be in the good interest of everyone , not just people in urban area , be they on the coast or not . to conclude , the previous Government recognise the challenge face and invest significant sum of money in community such as mine to help they close the gap with non - coastal community . go forward , we must be proud of coastal community , which be such a key part of our national identity as an island nation . I be committed to find the balance between pursue opportunity and tackle the challenge that we all face . it be a privilege to represent East Worthing and Shoreham , a fabulous stretch of the stunning Sussex coast where the sea meet the shore at our beautiful collection of town and village , which then give way to the breathtaking south down . too often , coastal town have be treat as after - thought . once vibrant hub of industry , culture and trade , too many now struggle to cope with rise inequality , economic stagnation , climate change and a housing crisis that be force family out of their neighbourhood . however , there be hope on the horizon and the tide be come back in . the new Labour Government be commit to steady the ship , pull our coastal community out of the sewage - blight murky water , and set sail towards a bright future . the housing crisis in our coastal area can not wait . the skyrocket cost of housing have make it nearly impossible for many of our young people and work family to find affordable home . house price in my constituency have rise by 20 % in the past five year , but wage have not keep pace . the median house price be £ 380 , 000 — almost £ 100 , 000 high than the national average — but our median weekly wage be low than other across the country . the new home that the Government will build can not come soon enough to ensure that local family be not price out of their community , and people ' s child and grandchild do not have to move away to get on in life . indeed , that be a huge factor in last year ' s election campaign . I meet a couple in their 80 who be vote Labour for the first time ever because their work adult child be still unable to afford a home of their own . they be not just first - time Labour voter ; this lovely couple meet 60 year ago at the local conservative dance party . the Labour Government be not only make it easy for people to own a home of their own ; we be also , through our Renters ( Reform ) Bill , support the 17 % of household in my constituency in the private rent sector by end no - fault eviction , ban rent bidding war and drive up standard . I be glad to be part of the work of Labour Members to bring an end to the exploitation of resident in coastal community like mine by poor manage agent , who take they for a ride with excessive charge and poor service . we be address the issue of climate change . we be commit to build a climate - resilient future by invest £ 2 . 65 billion in flood defence . I will make the case for East Worthing and Shoreham get its fair share of that funding , give our experience of flooding , include in Shoreham , last April . we be also act on the cause of climate change through our aim to achieve 95 % clean power by 2030 . I be proud to support an extension of the Rampion wind farm in the sea just beyond our shoreline , which will produce enough electricity to power the whole of Sussex if complete . we need investment in our coastal community , not just for the resident live in they but to revive our tourist economy and give we the opportunity to show off the delight of our splendid seaside town . time be short and I can not talk about too many of they , but they include worthe pier , which suffer a closure last year , and worthe lido , which I hope we can restore . the time for change be now . our coastal community have give so much to the country over the year , and it be time that we give back . I hope that will come in the form of a coastal community strategy , so that the Government can deliver real change for our neighbour . I thank the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) for secure the debate , and for his excellent speech . my constituency of Aberdeenshire North and Moray East be a coastal community . it boast beautiful view of nature , bustle port and delicious local produce . peterhead be the large fishing port in Europe , with a huge daily fish market . Fraserburgh be a fantastic port town and my home . Fraserburgh harbour have develop a £ 300 million master plan , which , if bring to reality , could deliver more than 1 , 000 new job . Portsoy have a remarkable harbour with unique local product . each July , Portsoy host the scottish traditional boat festival , which celebrate the craft behind boat with tremendous event and music . there be many more coastal community , such as Buckie , which have a large marine industry . Golfing be a popular leisure pursuit in the constituency , with many world - class golf course find right across it ; Cruden Bay and Fraserburgh be only two among many . across Scotland , there be more than 2 , 000 active scottish fishing vessel , and three quarter of they fish primarily in inshore water . the inshore fleet be diverse and include trawler , creeler , netter , dredger and diver . in 2019 , there be an estimate 14 , 092 people directly employ in the seafood sector , many in remote coastal and island community . fishing be far more than an industry ; it be part of our identity in coastal community . do the hon . Member agree that a sustainable inshore fishing industry be vital to our economic growth ? I completely agree . for the industry to be sustainable , it must have access to labour . the inshore fleet in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , like the one in mine , will doubtless be cry out for labour to come in from foreign country . it be not able to because of the way the visa rule be structure . I believe the Prime Minister himself agree with I on the issue of labour shortage very recently . some 95 % of commercial fishing job be locate in area of Scotland that , together , be home to less than a third of the total population . do the hon . member agree that we desperately need a proper , fully think out fishing strategy to support this vital industry in our local community ? that be a reasonable point , but some of these matter be devolve , so it might be difficult to have a UK - wide strategy . in 2021 , scottish export of fish and seafood be value at £ 1 billion , account for 60 % of total scottish food export and 63 % of total UK fish and seafood export . Scotland ' s sea around our shore make up over 60 % of the UK ' s total water . however , fishery need confidence to operate . Aberdeenshire council ' s recent decision to cut the night - watch service at Macduff harbour be ill think out and economically illiterate . this be despite an economic development plan for the harbour that be accept by the council ' s harbour sub - committee only last December , in which it highlight that the harbour support around 280 job and inject £ 11 . 2 million into the local economy . there be many thing I could complain about — depopulation , unemployment , poor access to healthcare or transport infrastructure , which the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) mention — but let we look hopefully to the future . the continued growth of Scotland ' s renewable energy sector will be an essential feature of our future clean energy system and a potential key driver of economic growth for many of these community , not least in my constituency . I want to reassure the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) about pylon . none of the cable that be come ashore in my constituency will see any pylon development within at least 10 to 15 mile of the shoreline , which be very reassuring . an abundance of renewable energy resource create opportunity to meet domestic need , to exploit new technology in carbon capture , wave power and hydrogen production and to export low - carbon energy to other in these island and to Europe . these development bring great hope to many struggle coastal community in Scotland , not least my own . I thank the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) for secure this debate , which be timely and overdue . I be glad to hear from member who live in coastal community all round this great country about the place they represent , many of which — this be where I be grateful to my parent — I visit on caravan trip around the country when I be young . the tourism industry in this country will be pleased about this debate , but I be also grateful to hear about the challenge and inequality that many of our community face . the report by Professor Chris Whitty be important for I when I be work at the NHS ; it flesh out some of the unique challenge that many coastal community share , include inequality in access to healthcare , and in health and employment outcome , as well as transport difficulty — the list go on . the coast of this country be not only the interface between land and sea , but the interface between many of the great challenge that we face as a country . I be pretty certain that every member in this debate will be able to give example from their constituency of high level of inequality , of social deprivation , or of challenge , often against a backdrop of beautiful , stunning landscape , access to nature , and place where people want to live , and where many — not just those on holiday in a caravan — want to visit on a daytrip , or retire to . it seem a terrible shame that somehow we have get ourselves lock into a system in which place that should be among the most desirable in the country face some of the big and most entrenched challenge . some of those challenge be intrinsic to be by the water . for example , damage to building and the maintenance cost of housing and infrastructure be high at the coast , yet that be not accommodate for in a lot of our public spending decision , when we think about our infrastructure and how we support people in maintain their house . if anyone go to Sheerness in my constituency and look around , they will see that much of the social housing in that coastal town be damage and degrade , largely because of the impact of the sea . it also face the financial challenge that the rest of the country face . sittingbourne and Sheppey have some unique feature . it be a rural community , but there be two industrial town in my constituency . there be a coastal community with nature reserve and wildlife , but there be also big industry , big power station , and massive paper mill . there be real opportunity that I think we can capture and build on . the reason I have twin town in my constituency be because of the sea and access to water , yet we be not take advantage of that in transport term . I very much endorse the call for a Minister for coastal community , but the one thing I would really like the Government to commit to be develop a cross - cut coastal strategy that address all those need . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) . I do not need to repeat everything he say , because it all apply in spade to my constituency , which be very much a coastal constituency , which include not just Harwich , but Manningtree , Mistley , Brightlingsea , and West Mersea . those be all place of vary economic prosperity , but I wish particularly to talk about Harwich because it be so typical of what have happen to very prosperous victorian port town , where glorious terrace of grand house would be worth million if they be near London , but instead they be bedsit territory for some of the most unfortunate in our society who find themselves get off the train and look for somewhere to stay . have say that , as the hon . Gentleman and the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) say in his opening remark — I thank he for secure this important debate , although obviously we have much too short a time — these place be full of potential . harwich be a unique historic town . it be where the Mayflower sail from in 1620 . the captain of the Mayflower live in Harwich , and his house be now a museum . when we say to the Americans , " do you realise that you originally come from Harwich ? " their eye be open . they think it be all about Plymouth , but they be not right . when we tell they what they could come and see , and that instead of some fake victorian step , they could come and see the real house of the captain of the Mayflower , they be amazed . it be an important napoleonic port , it grow from a wonderful medieval naval base to be a very important naval base during the first and second world war , and the entire german submarine fleet be gather in the estuary . harwich be full of potential . we have the freeport , the offshore wind industry and wonderful manufacturing business , provide stable employment to their workforce . the place be full of potential , but I worry that without be champion by our own Tendring district council , which have do a marvellous job but be be line up for abolition , we will not get the same support . when he wind up , will the Minister assure we that coastal community will get the same support , under the new local government set - up , that they have always enjoy from their district council ? I have my doubt , I be afraid , so I would be most grateful if he can address that . in many way , my constituency of Southport be a typical coastal community and , like many coastal town , it have see well day . it be cope with challenge that do not necessarily impact inland area to the same extent . part of that negative change be due to the nature of the town ' s economy , but a big part of it be due to its geography : it be a seaside town . what make many of our seaside town successful originally — the sense that they be a trip away from the big city and that people could travel for mile through the countryside to get to they — now militate against we . while it once might have be appeal for family from Manchester to take a pack lunch to the seaside and enjoy the scenic train route through Lancashire , it be no good for our commuter to still be stick on that scenic route , trundle across the north - west to get to work and back every day . what be once our strength have now become our weakness . austerity have hit we hard too . the former Government remove in excess of £ 200 million a year from the local area . the multipli effect of that have have an impact on private business in the town because when so many customer see that their wage be not keep up with price , then small business fail . we have see a lot of that in Southport in the past decade . austerity manifest itself in different way in different area , and in my town austerity have manifest itself most prominently in the closure of the town ' s seaside pier . a botched repair job 25 year ago mean that there be now structural problem estimate to cost over £ 10 million to fix . the pier be in local authority ownership , and thank to the previous Government , the local authority have not get the money to bring about the necessary repair . I have be campaign on innovative way to ensure that pier across the country be safeguard for the next generation . this Labour Government have more coastal mp than at any point in our country ' s history , as be evidence by the overwhelmingly empty conservative Benches . the common issue face by coastal town be feel keenly by my colleague on the Labour Benches . with that in mind , I be pleased that the Government be willing to commit to support our coastal community and I too put on record my wish to see the creation of a specific Minister for coastal community . the issue our area share be so specific to the coast , common to each other and important to our resident that Government will gain greatly from a dedicated Minister ensure that the view of our town and area be hear in this place . I be sure that if government step up and meet some of the challenge that our town face , the decade of national renewal that we know the country need could be implement . order . with an immediate two - minute time limit , I call Si â n Berry . I be pleased to speak in the debate and I thank the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) for secure it . in 2019 , a House of Lords report on the future of coastal community call Brighton " probably the UK ' s most successful seaside community , " and we be . I be very pleased that the city council have recently set up a new seafront development board , and I have already have a positive meeting with its chair to discuss how we continue to make our seafront well , to support and grow our city ' s wonderful reputation for heritage , music , the art , shopping , amusement , community action , diversity , nature and wellbeing . as other have say , there be currently no Government funding scheme specifically for coastal area , and there be no ministerial focus ; I echo the comment of everybody in this House on that . we need focus on the specific challenge that our coastal community face , because austerity and Brexit have bite Brighton ' s community too . our people have big problem with housing cost , holiday let , employment , health , transport and health inequality , which all need deal with . do the hon . Member agree that Brexit have do immense harm to place such as Brighton and other coastal community ? I could not agree more . the amount of different sector of the economy in Brighton and Hove that have remark to I on the impact of Brexit be huge , not least the cultural industry . I will echo other and talk a little about the regularly appalling state of our sea water , which be a genuine threat to our success . Southern Water have be take to court and find guilty of criminal behaviour and lying , yet we still have sewage overflow off the south coast on a regular basis . I have meet sea - swim group and individual constituent who have be very sick after swim in the water around Brighton , and the only way to get that properly under control be public ownership . my Green colleague and I will continue to push for that in this Parliament . I will very quickly shout out Lucy Davies , the brilliant and enthusiastic new director of Brighton Dome . when I meet she recently , she tell I about the excellent collaboration happen between cultural institution along the Sussex coast . the coastal catalyst programme will support creativity and culture for young people from Bognor Regis to Bexhill , and it be exactly the kind of co - operative work that need to happen . there be no single solution to the challenge that impact on our coastal community , but we need ambition , vision , a dedicated Minister and a proper package of strategic initiative and funding . as mps we can help by work together and with local leader to build on the idea , build up new initiative that we all agree our community need because of their very special nature , and put on the pressure for that to happen . for too long , coastal community such as Blackpool have be leave behind . despite our stunning coastline , proud heritage and incredibly resilient people , Westminster have neglect we for far too long . now , with a new Labour Government in place , we have the opportunity to turn the tide to ensure that Blackpool and other coastal community finally get the support they deserve . nearly one in two child in Blackpool live in poverty . I recently submit a report to the child poverty taskforce base on the experience of parent and those work with child in Blackpool . almost 90 % of those survey say that financial strain be damage child ' s enjoyment of childhood . that be unacceptable , and we must change it . Blackpool ' s economy have long rely on tourism and associated job role that historically have be seasonal , insecure and low - pay . local effort have do much to create a year - round economy , and the Government must support they . that mean target investment in the sector that can provide long - term career , help business to grow and expand skill training to prepare our workforce for the future . with the right support , we can unlock Blackpool ' s full potential . do my hon . friend agree that with the new Government , north - west town have the good opportunity for a generation to turn the tide on year of Tory decline and ensure that their good day lie ahead ? I completely agree . I have many happy memory of my hon . friend ' s constituency of Southport . my family would go from Blackpool to the Pontins in Southport , but my dad would always go the long way round on the motorway so it feel like we be go far away than we be . as I be say , this do not mean turn our back on tourism and hospitality : it mean invest in they . however , the rise in employer national insurance contribution present a significant challenge to they , and job be at risk . if we be serious about grow our economy and support work people , we must give this sector the support it desperately need . a 12 . 5 % vat reduction for hospitality and tourism would boost turnover , create nearly 300 , 000 job over the next decade and deliver billion in tax revenue . that be the kind of bold , ambitious action that place such as Blackpool need to thrive . for too long , place such as Blackpool have be leave behind , but with the right plan and with the determination to see it through , we can change that . my constituent demand a voice , so I be also call for the appointment of a dedicated Minister for coastal community . the last Labour Government rebuild our city ; this new Labour Government have the opportunity to rebuild our forget coastal town . we must deliver a cross - government strategy dedicate to improve the health , wellbeing and prosperity of coastal community . the chief medical officer have rightly say that " strong , target , long - term action " can lift our coastal town and create a fairer , healthy and more prosperous future for all . my constituent deserve nothing less . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) on secure this important debate . we desperately need a Minister for coastal community , as have be highlight in some outstanding speech this afternoon . the fact that my constituency of Torbay be the premier resort for the United Kingdom be of great pleasure to I — we have six blue flag beach across the bay . however , once upon a time at the turn of the 20th century , Torquay be the wealthy town in the country . sadly , Torbay be now one of its most deprived community , and be the most deprived community in the west of England . one wicked issue that face we be pollution in our sea . while we have those lovely blue flag beach , from time to time — particularly with climate change and the propensity towards heavy water use in the summer — our sewage system get overwhelmed . it be a great sadness that local have to look on the Surfers Against Sewage app to determine when it be safe to swim in our sea . we also face wicked issue and challenge in our NHS , include our crumble hospital . do my hon . friend agree that hospital face challenge not just with their state or accessibility but with the affordability of housing for NHS worker ? my hon . friend be spot on . whether we be in North Norfolk , North Devon or Torbay , we face challenge with our NHS , and we also face a lack of affordable housing . we have see that challenge put on steroid by the pandemic , during which we see house price and rent rise , with people flee from metropolitan area to live in coastal community . let we ensure , with the appointment of a dedicated coastal community Minister , that coastal community be not leave on the edge , geographically or economically . I declare an interest as chair of the coastal parliamentary Labour party and co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for coastal community , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) . we be in danger of violently agree with each other , so I will not repeat much of what have be say — needless to say , much of it also apply to East Thanet . what I will cover , however , be the potential that coastal community have to drive economic growth across the country through our people , our heritage and our environment . take the Government ' s mission to build 1 . 5 million home ; East Kent Colleges Group be work with house builder and construction company such as WW Martin , offer apprenticeship to develop the next generation of worker . there be a demand for non - graduate job in our community , and if we tap into that potential , there be no reason why it could not be worker from coastal community who build those 1 . 5 million home across the country and refurbish our shoddy , draughty and damp housing stock . it be important that we build on people ' s identity and heritage to develop resilient coastal community . in East Thanet , we have tap into our artistic heritage of Charles Dickens and J . m . W . Turner — the Turner Contemporary gallery in Margate be a monument to what can happen when energy and resource be focus on regenerate coastal town . of course , our natural environment be not just a nice - to - have ; it be an integral economic asset . however , we can not talk about increase opportunity without first provide people with security . how can people look to the horizon when they be have to watch where they step ? this be a mission - drive Government with five mission to transform the country . do my hon . friend agree that a strong enable state , bring forward those five mission and invest in a progressive industrial strategy , can help our coastal town thrive in the next decade ? indeed , we need a place - base approach with that active state . if we want economic growth that reach all part of the country , invest in coastal community . if we want public service that really improve the experience of people who be most alienated because of state failure , invest in coastal community . if we want to create an environment that work for nature and people , invest in coastal community . I be speak not just about financial investment , but about investment of Government time , energy and focus . when colleague and I be try to work out which Department would be answer this debate , we literally do not know . while I be obviously delighted to see the Minister in his place , the issue raise in this House today span all Departments , whether that be Health , Transport , Environment , Education , the Home Office , the Treasury or many other . I simply note that if there be not one Minister who fit the portfolio , there should be one — a Minister for coastal community who can focus on regenerate our town and grow our coastal economy . I will end with a point about the previous Labour Government . in the 1990 , city be not the place they be today . that Labour Government have a relentless focus on improve they , and the regeneration we have see be testament to what can be deliver . coastal town be in the same position now , and the Labour Government have not only — order . member will be aware that I will call the first Front Bencher at 4 . 38 pm . that mean that not all member will now get in . they might consider that when make intervention . I thank the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) for secure this debate . it be an honour to be here today among mp represent coastal community . I represent Southend East and Rochford . I be bear on Green Street in east London , and grow up I spend a lot of time go to southend for day out , as a lot of east - ender do at the time — they still do , in fact . however , tourism have change , consumer habit have alter and industry and coastal community be typically centre around agriculture , social care , retail and hospitality , which be all usually low - pay sector . accord to the independent commission on neighbourhood , Southend East and Rochford contain 17 neighbourhood identify with the high need . high deprivation and a lack of social infrastructure have have a knock - on effect on life expectancy , education outcome and job opportunity . where someone live should not negatively impact their future . my constituency be a centre for creative art and heritage building , such as the Freight House , the Kursaal , the Cliffs Pavilion , Southchurch Hall and more . resident have a passion and a determination to create a sustainable future for Southend East and Rochford , as do I , but we need a coastal community strategy that differentiate coastal community from our inland and rural partner and seek to address the unique challenge we face . for long - term change , we must diversify industry in coastal community , so that hospitality , heritage and tourism can thrive alongside finance , tech and industry . our coastal community be likely to have high deprivation live alongside great wealth . they be often creative hub . Cornwall attract many artist and musician , and Falmouth have the world - class Falmouth University , which grow out of a 100 - year - old art school . People come from all across the country and the world to visit our beach and coastline . however , I be worried about the shore management plan , and manage alignment pose a risk to our beach caf é s , car park and economy in Cornwall . the port of Falmouth be still very significant : we maintain and repair ship , include military ship , we host cruise ship with new green energy onshore plug - in , and we have plan to regenerate the port to service float offshore wind and to reinstate the freight railway . however , wage be low than the national average , many job be seasonal and insecure , and hospitality business struggle with low margin . the permanently low business rate that will be introduce in April next year after the business rate discount expire will help a great deal , as long as the rate be permanently low than the current rate , rather than the full rate from pre - covid . skill shortage be significant , particularly in hospitality , but also in other skilled profession , and house price be 13 time wage . there be 24 , 500 property for short - term let in Cornwall , up 30 % on 2019 , while 27 , 000 household be on the social housing waiting list . second home account for nearly 5 % of our housing stock . I welcome the Renters ' Rights Bill , but we also need a toolbox of measure to tackle second home and short - term let , include a registration or licensing scheme . good holiday company be actually call for safety inspection measure , and for the closure of the business rate council tax loophole . in addition , Cornwall have face underfunding in health , social care and education for year . I , too , support the call for a broad Government strategy on coastal community , because every policy affect we in potentially different way from in urban area . today I want to talk about the wonderful , world - renowne cockling industry in Southend West and Leigh . forgive I if this sound a bit niche , but I be sure the House will agree that industry such as cockling be important to all of we in coastal community — to preserve our heritage and cultural identity , boost tourism , and increase prosperity and employment . Leigh - on - Sea have be synonymous with cockling for — wait for it — 1 , 000 year . the industry be a vital part of Leigh - on - Sea ' s heritage , with the old town ' s cockle shed serve as a reminder of its maritime past and a huge boost to our tourism sector . the North Thames cockle fishery , which be one of the old in Europe , have implement measure such as seasonal operation and total allowable catch level to ensure the sustainability of cockle stock , and it be give a Maritime Stewardship Council ' s sustainability award in 2019 . it be a perfect example of sustainable fishing . however , there be issue that need to be address , as I hear from our fifth - generation firm of cockler , Osborne ' s fishmonger . I be tell that people in this country do not eat much shellfish , especially the young generation . this be not a trade that we want to die out , and I support initiative such as Seafood in Schools and Fish Heroes . the cockling industry in Leigh - on - Sea bring significant economic benefit to the local community , but it face several challenge . its representative have tell I that increase pressure to operate more efficiently and sustainably require long - term investment . after the new cockling licence be finally pass by Parliament follow delay in the previous Parliament , Osborne ' s and other would like to see their individual licence grant . preserve local industry , such as cockling in Leigh - on - Sea , be vital for coastal community . we must continue to support they . my constituency of Scarborough and Whitby include some of the most beautiful town and village in the country , but it also have some of the bad health outcome . we have talk a lot about old people in this debate , and I will use my time to talk about young people . I be excite by the opportunity that the advent of renewable energy offer young people in my constituency . Scarborough university technical college be already train the engineer of the future , who will work on the wind farm off our coast . the Construction Skills Village in Eastfield be train apprentice in bricklaying , plastering and other trade to help build labour ' s 1 . 5 million new home . however , we must deliver year - round , non - graduate career for our coastal kid and ensure that funding be funnel not into city and university , but into coastal community . only by do this will we deliver on our mission to break down the barrier to opportunity . I thank the hon . Lady for be so brief . that bring we to the Front Benchers . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) on secure the debate — although , on a beautiful day like this , I be sure I be not the only one pine for the beach . Great Britain be an island nation with a proud maritime history . coastal community be central to our cultural identity , our national heritage and , of course , our economy , yet time and again they have be overlook by government in London . from under - investment in infrastructure and transport to the devastating impact of water pollution and the broken business rate system , coastal community face unique challenge that require target solution . it be time for proper investment , fair funding and a real plan for the future . my constituency of West Dorset be home to the famous Jurassic coast — a UNESCO world heritage site — and as in many coastal community , tourism be an essential industry for the area , but it also place increase strain on local infrastructure , public service and emergency response team . although Dorset experience a 42 % increase in population during peak season , such rural and coastal area remain chronically underfunded . the current funding formula fail to account for rurality , and for the seasonal population fluctuation that we experience . rural local authority face high service delivery cost , yet the Government ' s decision to repurpose the £ 100 million rural service delivery grant on a new need and demand basis have remove a crucial lifeline for council try to provide transport , emergency service and social care in remote area . that be simply unacceptable . one of the great threat to coastal economy and to public health be the ongoing sewage crisis , and the figure be staggering . in 2022 alone , over 320 , 000 sewage spill be record across England . as a result , England be rank among the low for water quality in Europe . meanwhile , water company pay out £ 1 . 4 billion in dividend in 2022 alone , and £ 51 million in executive remuneration between 2020 and 2021 , all while fail to invest in critical infrastructure to prevent these spill . it be nothing short of a national scandal . that be why the Liberal Democrats be call for the creation of a clean water authority to replace Ofwat , as well as strong regulation , increase funding for water regulator to hold polluter accountable , and a dedicated Minister for coastal community to oversee regulation on sewage spill and coastal protection . I must raise the issue of business rate . small business be vital to coastal economy , yet the broken business rate system be hold they back . the Government ' s plan to slash relief for retail , hospitality and leisure business from 75 % to just 40 % will be a devastating blow for many small coastal business that be still struggle to recover from the pandemic and the cost of living crisis . that be important , because tourism number be still down a third on pre - 2019 level . the UK tourism sector directly employ over 3 million people , but it have experience heighten job insecurity and reduce hire rate since that time . our tourism sector need targeted support , not short - sighted tax hike . as member have outline , coastal community be also face a housing crisis . that be why the Liberal Democrats be call for a 500 % council tax surcharge on second home in housing - shortage area , new planning restriction on second home and short - term holiday let to prioritise local housing need , and a requirement for all holiday let owner to pay council tax , end the loophole that let they avoid pay anything at all . these measure will help protect the character of our coastal town and ensure they remain thriving community , not just seasonal destination . Post - Brexit fishing and farming policy have leave many coastal community struggle . the last government ' s botch Brexit deal throw the UK fishing industry into turmoil , and as we approach the end of the transition period in 2026 , uncertainty be grow . too many fish be export abroad for processing before be reimporte , lead to high cost , increase emission and lose job opportunity . the Liberal Democrats be call for a renegotiation of trade agreement to protect british farmer and fisherman , great investment in local fish processing facility to create job opportunity and boost local economy , and a £ 1 billion boost for the environmental land management scheme to support sustainable and nature - friendly farming . Healthcare remain a postcode lottery in rural and coastal community . in West Dorset , only 14 NHS dental practice serve a population of 101 , 000 , leave many without access to care . People live in coastal community across the country face stark health inequality compare with those in other area . report , such as the one by Sir Chris Whitty , consistently show that rural community experience poor health outcome drive by deprivation , limited access to healthcare and persistent workforce shortage . these challenge be not inevitable ; they be the result of neglect . the Liberal Democrats be call for a strategic small surgery fund to sustain struggle rural gp service , and a dental rescue package to fix the broken NHS dental contract and guarantee urgent dental care for all . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be afraid I will not , because I be very keen for my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk to have time to wind up . Digital exclusion remain a press issue . many coastal business and resident lack reliable broadband and mobile connectivity , impact everything from emergency response time to economic opportunity . the Government must commit to full - fibre broadband and reliable mobile coverage for all coastal and rural community . coastal community have long be overlook . as the hon . member for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) and other have eloquently outline , it be time for a dedicated Minister for coastal community to ensure that our voice be hear in every Government decision . we deserve clean water , thrive business , secure job and infrastructure that meet our need . it be time for bold action , not just warm word , if we be to secure the future of our coastal community for generation to come . it be a pleasure to wind up , on behalf of the official Opposition , this debate on the importance of our coastal community , of which my own constituency be a proud one . those community be rich in history , industry and natural beauty , but they face significant challenge . they be home to thrive tourism , fishery and local business , but they continue to struggle with economic inequality , housing pressure and environmental concern . it be our duty to ensure that coastal community receive the attention they deserve . in that spirit , I congratulate the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) on secure the debate . his opening speech show clearly that he be committed to his constituency and care deeply for the people he represent . many hon . member touch on the unique and impressive heritage of their respective coastal community , from their evolution as trade hub , shipbuilding harbour , basis for fishing fleet and tourist destination , to the modern and diverse settlement of today . I hope hon . member and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , will permit I a minor indulgence as I add my homage to my coastal constituency . straddle the hamble river , from which my constituency get its name , the community that line this strip of the Hampshire coastline be as venerable as they be beautiful , snake down from charming Curbridge , past beautiful Burseldon and stunning Swanwick , all the way down to Hill Head into the Solent past scenic marina and yacht club and many wonderful pub , which , as the weather warm up and the sun come out , I will be pleased — as I be sure all member across the House will be — to visit more and more often . it be a hard life be the MP for Hamble Valley , but someone have to live it . however , it be not all blue sky and calm water all the time . as member have say , there be challenge face coastal community , and we can not ignore their impact . as in my constituency , coastal town and village struggle with restrict accessibility from poor transport link and increase environmental risk , high than average unemployment compound by seasonal job instability , disparity in housing income , low educational attainment and the upward mobility of skilled worker cause a brain drain that further exacerbate all those issue . part of the problem stem from the fact that there be currently no national strategy for coastal area . coastal town be usually low - population area and be often conflate with rural area , which obscure their unique challenge . as we have touch on , coastal community be already grapple with economic inequality , yet this Government continue to burden they far . average annual pay in coastal town be £ 4 , 700 low than in the rest of Great Britain , and their national growth rate be much low despite the historical industrial and commercial strength they exhibit in the past . now they face tax increase , decline support for high street and rise employment cost , which threaten to undo year of progress in just a matter of month . instead of foster economic growth , we be see policy that stifle local business and weaken our high street . for example , with the Government ' s hike in employer national insurance contribution to 15 % , we can see the fallout that poor economic choice deliver . business I have speak to , include pub and restaurant in my constituency which rely on seasonal tourism and be already struggle with high cost , be now have to make difficult decision about lay off staff , not take on more staff , and , in extreme circumstance , closing venue . that be the exact opposite of what our local business need . the Government say that their first priority be deliver growth , yet the policy they have choose to implement will bring about yet more economic uncertainty , financial worry and labour market instability in coastal community . with the Government ' s recent housing algorithm change , we be also see dramatic increase in housing target in coastal community . in coastal community near Hamble Valley , such as New Forest , Fareham and Gosport , we be see target rise by up to 105 % . Cornwall , Dorset , Somerset and North Yorkshire be all be task with deliver thousand of new home , yet infrastructure and public service be not keep pace . many of our coastal community depend on a strong and sustainable fishing industry . the previous Government work hard to strip EU - impose quota that constrain our fishing fleet . however , this Government ' s continue pursuit of close alignment with the EU raise serious concern about access to UK water post - 2026 . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I do not have time , I be afraid . the previous Government make significant investment in our coastal community . through the coastal community fund , £ 229 million be invest across 369 project , create over 7 , 000 job and bring more than 3 million visitor to our coastal area . furthermore , the future high street fund , town deal , the levelling - up fund and the UK share prosperity fund provide much - need support to local economy . these initiative renew town centre , safeguard business and create thousand of training opportunity , but we see no commitment to continue they today . the Government have already announce that there will be no new funding for the town fund , which I think be a betrayal of the commitment make to our coastal community . coastal community be an integral part of our national identity , and yet they continue to be overlook by this Government . instead of support local business , they raise taxis ; instead of invest in our high street , they cut funding ; instead of protect our fishing industry , they seek close tie with the EU that threaten our independence . it be time for this Government to change course . we must ensure fair housing policy , sustain economic investment , a strong and independent fishing industry and robust flood defence . our coastal community deserve well , and I urge this House to take action to protect their future . I thank the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) for secure this debate and for the way he lead it . he say that it be his first opening speech — it be an excellent one . I admire both the poise and the clarity with which he speak in his first Backbench Business debate . there be clearly more excellent debate to come , but he will struggle , I think , to top today ' s topic . the official record of this debate will read like a love letter to our nation ' s coastal community — one in which we can all see ourselves and our treasured memory , whether we represent a coastal community or , for member like myself who do not , spend our childhood at Southport , Blackpool , Skegness or elsewhere around the country . the hon . Gentleman set out very clearly the opportunity for our coastal community — be they tourism , energy or natural beauty — but also the profound challenge , which be echo in the contribution of a number of colleague , such as slow economic growth , high level of deprivation and real challenge in healthcare . he say that he feel the system do not work . I share a lot of that , and I have some suggestion for how the system might change . the hon . Gentleman be also very clear that he would rather that a dedicated Minister respond to the debate , rather than I — I will try not to take it personally , and will address that directly in a moment . first , I want to cover a number of contribution from colleague . my hon . friend the Members for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tom Rutland ) and for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) and the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) speak about the integral challenge with housing in coastal community , with too little building for too long . this government be go to change that , with a million and a half home in this Parliament . I say to colleague , and to anybody listen who be passionate about their coastal community , that the way to ensure that be do in the right way — a way that respect local heritage , local demand and area of natural beauty — be to be involve in the local planning process . that be how to set the blueprint for excellent development in our community . as my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) say , that will bring job as well , with opportunity for all - year - round job , great career and skill . of course , that conversation on housing include an important point that be raise by a number of my colleague , especially my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , which be the matter of second home and short - term let . she and I have speak about that a lot over the year , along with my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) . this government be introduce a short - term let registration scheme to protect the spirit of our community , notwithstanding the importance of short - term let to the economy . we be abolish the furnished holiday letting tax regime to remove the tax incentive that short - term let owner have over long - term landlord . from this April , council can opt to charge a council tax premium of up to 100 % on second home . however , we recognise that more will need to be do , and we be very keen to have that conversation with colleague . we be consider what additional power we could give local authority to enable they to respond to the pressure create by short - term let and holiday home . a number of colleague , include — perhaps unsurprisingly — my hon . friend the Member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) , make important point about healthcare . I would trumpet the Government ' s 10 - year health plan to reform the NHS , which coastal community in particular will benefit from . the Minister for Care , my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) , be sit on the Bench next to I . with the three big shift — the move from hospital to community , from analogue to digital and from sickness to prevention — there be a lot in that plan for coastal community . again , I encourage colleague to lean into that . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) draw I on cockle . Osborne ' s sound like it be the real backbone of his community , but , clearly , it be face some real hurdle . if it be of any value to he , I would be very keen to meet the firm ' s representative and have the chance to have that conversation in full . my hon . friend the Members for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) and for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) touch on partnership with central Government , local government and local community . I can point to significant money come from this government : £ 90 million for housing redevelopment in Blackpool , and £ 40 million for the further education college and the new civil service hub . we believe that Blackpool ' s good day be ahead of it , and I be very keen to work with my hon . friend in that regard . the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) talk about the strong opportunity for development in the private sector . I would add to that the £ 4 . 4 billion for the naval base at Devonport . we also have the excellent tool of the freeport that we can work on together to draw in investment , which I and my colleague be very keen to do . the subject of freeport take I to the Essex coast and to the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) . he want to hear from this Dispatch Box a commitment to his community , and I can give he that commitment . our renew commitment to freeport , which we inherit from the previous Government , show that we believe in the potential of his community . there be change to local government come , and the possibility of devolution be outstanding , but I know — I will speak to this point later when I address the matter of a dedicated Minister — that his community have the skill , the knowledge and the experience to shape the area for the well and build it for the day ahead . our commitment be to give it the power and the tool to do so , and I be very happy to recommit to that today . will my hon . friend confirm that this Government understand that there be a clear distinction between the challenge in rural community and those in coastal one ? I notice that the Liberal Democrat spokesman use the word " coastal " and " rural " almost completely interchangeably , and we know that the level of deprivation and the challenge in coastal community be significantly different from those in rural community . can he give I that confirmation from the Government ? that be an important point . rural community can be coastal community and vice versa , but not always , and their challenge manifest very differently . the challenge that come from be a community at the end of the line can be significant and profound , and we absolutely accept that . I turn to the point that the hon . member for North Norfolk make about have a dedicated Minister . as other colleague have say , I think he be sell himself short . the reality be that this be not about have a Minister in government pull the lever for North Norfolk , Hamble Valley or anywhere else to transform its community . this be an inside job . the promise from this Government be to shift power and resource from this place to those community , so that they can change thing for themselves . we have make a down payment with our plan for neighbourhood , which cover Peterhead , for example . I hear some of the frustration , but give community power and resource be a way to rebalance thing , and it will enable they to change thing for themselves . of the 75 area in the plan for neighbourhood , 25 be coastal , which will mean a £ 500 million commitment . my hon . friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) talk about the independent commission on neighbourhood , and much of its work be reflect in what we have do . I say gently to the Opposition spokesperson that we want to move away from the broken begging bowl culture of level - up fund , where community be pit against each other , to more long - term sustain funding base on the need of a community . the money be one thing , but , for I , the power be the real thing , and it underpin our plan for change . I be talk about the shift of power from this place to our local community that we be see through devolution . we already have five elect mayor represent coastal area , with two more still to come in May — Hull and East Yorkshire and Greater Lincolnshire . that give those community power over housing , planning , transport , energy , skill , employment support and more , so that they can shape their area . six more area be come down the line , include five coastal community in the devolution priority programme . that be a shift of money and power from this place to coastal community to take on the challenge that they have have in the past and , in partnership with central Government , to build very exciting future — be they in tourism , in climate or in housing . that be what this Government offer . that be what the future offer , and that be something to be really excited about . I be immensely grateful to member from across the House for their contribution and for echo my call . I want to mention a couple of point that I think be exceptionally noteworthy . my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) and the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) speak about the pride and opportunity in their area , not just the challenge . the hon . member for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) speak about the challenge of be asset custodian of pier and other such thing . I be delighted to hear the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) and for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) talk about the opportunity for skill development and young people . time do strange thing in coastal community . I leave hon . member with a final image that I think of as I listen to colleague : the volunteer lifeboat crew off the North Norfolk and how much they do to support and protect all of we in this country . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider coastal community . face - to - face GP Appointments Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) it be a pleasure to hold this Adjournment debate on face - to - face appointment with GPs . I ask hon . member listen and watch to go back to October 2023 and imagine that they have abdominal pain and some blood loss . they seek a GP appointment and they be give a telephone appointment . they be give a diagnosis of endometriosis and prescribe some painkiller . this diagnosis , sadly , turn out to be incorrect . they then move forward , still in pain , to mid - December 2023 . they receive a letter with a gynaecological appointment for the end of January 2024 . but they be still in deep pain . the pain intensifie . their husband rush they to the urgent treatment centre at Pilgrim hospital , where a doctor see they and reaffirm the diagnosis of endometriosis . the doctor say , " as you be be look after by a gp , there ' s nothing more I should do . " over the next two week , the pain intensifie , to the point where at the end of December 2023 , they be rush to A & E . it be just before new year . they be tell to come back for test on 2 January 2024 . those test reveal some problem and some lesion around the liver . they be put on a two - week cancer pathway with more test , CT scan , MRI scan and an endoscopy . on 2 February , they be give the result of those test . sadly , the cancer have spread to such a degree that nothing more can be do . just three day later , they pass away . it be impossible to imagine or to understand this , but it be the tragic story of Laura Barlow , age just 33 , the mother of three young daughter : Summer Skye , Bonnie Rae and Bella - Mia . her husband Michael Barlow be here in the Gallery with friend . his campaign , after the tragic loss of his wife Laura , be for more face - to - face appointment , and for patient to have the right to one if they feel they need it . it be worth look at the context of face - to - face appointment in our healthcare system . go back some six year to 2019 , around 80 % of all GP appointment be face to face . accord to NHS England , for the last two month , the figure be just over 64 % . how do we compare to other nation ? in european nation with different healthcare system , the average be 84 % or 85 % . we have some 20 % few face - to - face appointment than some of our international peer . I be just a layman , not a doctor , but it must be common sense that an experienced , highly skilled , professional gp look a patient in the eye to physically assess they face to face must give patient the great chance of a correct diagnosis . sometimes , a gp will spot something that the patient be not even aware of . I commend the hon . gentleman on secure the debate . gp face - to - face appointment be a massive issue in my constituency , and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be probably inundate with constituent ask about the same thing . People — more often than not , elderly people — phone the emergency number at half - past 8 in the morning and hold on till 5 past 9 . after they have hold the phone for 35 minute , a voice say , " by the way , you ' re too late . " the system be not work . to be fair to the Minister , I understand that change be come . we need to know what they be , and whether they will improve the system . if they do not do so to the satisfaction of the hon . Gentleman , my constituent and I , something be drastically wrong , and that need to be address immediately . the hon . Member make some excellent point . there be clearly a place for telephone appointment . when research the topic in more detail , I be astonish to find that of the gap between the 64 % or 65 % of face - to - face appointment and 100 % , telephone appointment represent some 25 % and Zoom or Teams appointment be just 5 % to 7 % . I would have think it would have be the opposite . surely it be well if GPs can see the pain that might be etch on a patient ' s face . we can look at the broad context — at what be happen to our population , and to the number of GPs , and at the pressure on GPs — and ask : be that why the percentage of face - to - face appointment have collapse so significantly ? in England , there be 6 . 5 million more people than in 2015 — an increase of some 17 % . interestingly , the number of GP appointment increase in that period by a similar percentage , give or take ; it go from just over 300 million appointment to over 360 million appointment . in fairness , and with due credit , there have be a recent increase , month on month , in GP appointment , which be to be commend , but it seem strange that the number of full - time , fully qualified GPs have barely move in those 10 year . it be true that there be more trainee doctor and trainee GPs in the system , but the number of fully qualified , full - time - equivalent GPs have basically stay static . that mean , of course , that the number of patient that a GP have on their book have increase significantly , from over 1 , 900 per GP to over 2 , 300 per gp . we can therefore understand the increase in pressure on they . give those health need , they will feel the need to see as many people as possible , so we can see the temptation to hold telephone or Zoom appointment . my hon . friend be make some excellent point . do he agree that there be a place for telephone appointment if a gp be give guidance and support , or make a referral , but that any diagnosis should be make face to face ? I thank my hon . friend for that excellent intervention . this come back to the basic concept of common sense . it must be easy for a gp to make the correct diagnosis when see someone face to face . we all make mistake , but when our medical professional on the frontline , whom we all admire , be under pressure and tired , and they make mistake , that can have devastating , life - change consequence . we will never know the difference it may have make if Laura have the correct diagnosis in October 2023 , but it must be right to give all patient the good opportunity . I know that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , who I have interact with in the Chamber , be absolutely determined to make reform across the healthcare system . he have start actively , abolish NHS England , make change to the Department , and do much more . that bring I to what else can be do . we can look at the pressure on GPs . I be astonish to read that almost 50 % of all GPs be think of retire in the next five year . almost 50 % of they cite the increase pressure of bureaucracy , paperwork and administration . surely we want our train gps in front of patient ; we do not want their time be absorb by unnecessary burden and paperwork . if that be drive our gps away from the noble profession of cure and help people , we have to look again . I hope the Health Secretary , the Minister and colleague will drive a change in process . when I be with people in my constituency of Boston and Skegness recently , do more research , I be astonish by what I find when I speak to a gp and liaise with she . she give I some example of bureaucracy clog up the system . for example , if a gp refer a patient to a consultant in hospital , and the consultant say , " yes , the patient need this , but I also need to refer they to another speciality just down the corridor in the same hospital , " that can not be do directly . the consultant have to write back to the GP . that letter go through the post , with a hundred other letter a day . then the GP have to refer the patient back to a different consultant , with that different speciality , down the corridor in the hospital . that lack common sense . it appear that if the consultant want to prescribe medication to the patient who have be refer , they be unable to do that directly ; they have to refer back to the GP , who have to spend more time provide the prescription . that appear to lack common sense . if the consultant want to request blood test , on many occasion that will have to be refer back to the GP , by letter or maybe by email , so that the GP can request those test . all that lead not only to delay for the patient , and to time be consume , but to more work for the GP , who we all surely want to see more patient face to face . there be other situation that seem to be clog up the system . take our old friend GDPR . it be well - intentione , but when I go to a pharmacy in Boston a few week back , the pharmacist say , " we have the same software system as the GP surgery , right next door to we in the same building , but because we have different module , and because GDPR do not let the module talk to each other , it lead to increase delay and a lack of productivity and , for patient , a low - quality service . " they go on : " we could do so much more . we could relieve the GPs of some of the work they be do , so that they could see the patient face to face . " then , a week later , I be in a care home in Boston , with carer and expert in the room . we be talk through the issue . they say , " there be process and procedure that we can do that we be not allow to do , so a GP have to do it ; or we have to request an ambulance from the hospital , clog up ambulance waiting list or clog up A & e corridor , when we could do those procedure . " again , the great concept of common sense can not be apply . I think we all know that we can do so much well than that . then there be the issue of referral . when a gp make a referral to a consultant , that referral often get assess by a non - clinician as to whether it be correct . I would have think that we should be able to trust highly train , highly skilled professional gps and back their judgment on the frontline . if they think someone need to be refer to a consultant , surely that do not need double or triple - checking . again , that delay good patient care and cause more blockage for the GP , more admin and more paperwork . then there be our friend at the Care Quality Commission : an important supervisory process and concept . I hear about the process , the box - tick , the patient panel — all that be just more admin , more time and more resource consume outside the core function of face - to - face treatment and care for patient . it therefore seem that this be not a party political issue , but one of drive continuous improvement in our healthcare system , and of the Department , as it move forward with the reform we all want to see , say , " actually , let ' s look at all the process . how do we reduce the blockage ? how do we remove any unnecessary paperwork and burden ? how do we improve the technology ? " indeed , artificial intelligence , which be so recent , be a huge opportunity for healthcare and technology in healthcare , and for GPs to , for example , double - check or triple - check their own diagnosis . these be great opportunity face we , but most fundamental of all , we must give our GPs every support , every ease of progress and the right technological assistance behind the scene in the back office , so they can face all of we when we be unwell and need treatment , because that be when they can use their experience , wisdom and knowledge to get to the right diagnosis . it would be a tribute to Laura — it would be her legacy — for patient to have the right to see a gp face to face . ease the process would make life easy for GPs and would make they want to stay in the profession , because they know that face to face they will achieve a great and noble cause and good . I thank the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) for raise GP access , which be a vital matter to many of our constituent . I want to start by pay tribute to Laura Barlow ' s family , friend and love one and to her husband Michael , who be in the Gallery . it be a terrible tragedy that Laura ' s cancer be not catch early , and I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman that the significant number of people who sign the petition show real strength of feeling on this heartbreaking case . when people be ask what their top priority for the NHS be , the chance be they will say , " fix general practice " because GPs be the front door to our national health service . they be the first port of call for million of people , and they perform a vital service by deliver care in community across our country . let I be crystal clear from this Dispatch Box : GPs must provide face - to - face appointment , alongside remote consultation . online service must always be provide in addition to , rather than as a replacement for , in - person consultation . patient have a right to request a face - to - face appointment , and practice must make every effort to meet their preference unless there be good clinical reason to the contrary , such as in case where the patient test positive for an infectious disease . there be clear benefit to attend an appointment in person . GPs pick up cue from body language and foster a more personal relationship with their patient , and that be important if we be to bring back the family doctor . last year , GPs deliver 380 million appointment throughout England . two third of those be in person , and I can tell the hon . Gentleman that the figure for his integrate care board in Lincolnshire be in line with the national average at 65 % . it be possible that , in some practice , default to remote appointment be a temporary and necessary measure during the pandemic , but in some case , that may have become a habit that have become difficult to shake . let we be clear that this be not the fault of GPs per se ; it be the fault of the last Government , which leave they underfunde , understaffed and in crisis . that be why we be do everything we can to remedy the downward spiral that GP service have find themselves in after 14 year of Tory neglect and failure . I be absolutely delighted that the general practitioner committee England vote in favour of this year ' s GP contract last month . it be the first time that the contract have be accept in four long year . the reform contact agree between the Government and the GPC will improve service for patient , make progress towards our health mission and , crucially , require practice to make it possible for patient to go online to request an appointment throughout the duration of core opening hour . that will free up time for patient who prefer to call or visit in person . those change be back by an extra £ 889 million , represent a cash growth of more than 7 % in overall contract investment , bring total spend on the GP contract to £ 13 . 2 billion this financial year . that be the large uplift to GP funding in a generation , and it mean we be begin to reverse a decade of a dwindle share of NHS resource go to general practice . it be not just about resource and funding , however . we be bulldoze bureaucracy for GPs , so that they spend less time push paper and more time see patient like Laura . we be train thousand more gps , modernise the booking system , end the 8 am scramble and bring back the family doctor . those measure should make it possible for GPs to guarantee a face - to - face appointment for all who want one . the Government be commit to shift the focus of our NHS from hospital to community . we will move towards a neighbourhood health service , improve continuity of care for those who would benefit from see the same clinician regularly , which be associate with well health outcome and few a & e attendance , and we will drive the shift from analogue to digital by ensure that all practice be employ the full functionality of GP Connect . let I turn to cancer . the Government be determined to tackle the big killer . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary have announce that a national cancer plan for England will be publish later this year . the plan will put patient at its heart and will cover the entirety of the cancer pathway , from referral and diagnosis to treatment and ongoing care . it will seek to improve every aspect of cancer care and the experience and outcome for people with cancer . our goal be to reduce the number of life lose to cancer over the next 10 year . the plan will spell out how we will improve outcome for cancer patient , speed up diagnosis and treatment and ensure patient have access to the late treatment and technology . we will bring this country ' s survival rate back up to the good in the world . our NHS belong to the people . those be not just my word ; they be in the NHS constitution . fourteen year of Tory failure leave our NHS break but not beat . everything this Government have do since the election have be gear towards save the NHS and give it back to the people . we be put power back in patient hand , because it be their health service and it must work for they . last week , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister announce reform that will shift power away from the centre . patient choice be at the heart of this Government ' s commitment to build an NHS fit for the future , and all patient should be offer face - to - face appointment when it be in their good interest . question put and agree to . House adjourn .