Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Child Poverty what recent estimate she have make of the level of child poverty in Rugby constituency . what recent estimate she have make of the level of child poverty in Edinburgh North and Leith constituency . this morning the nation fall silent to pay tribute to all those who have serve and continue to serve in our armed force , and those who have make the ultimate sacrifice . today we honour and remember they . I quote the word inscribe on Lutyens ' beautiful Arch of Remembrance in Leicester from the hymn " o Valiant Hearts " : " all they hope for , all they have , they give to save mankind — themselves they scorn to save " . some 4 . 3 million child be grow up in poverty — 700 , 000 more than in 2010 . that be why the work of our cross - Government child poverty taskforce be so urgent , and why we will use all lever available to increase family income , reduce family cost and give every child the good start in life . I have have the privilege of assist the brilliant volunteer at the Make Lunch organisation in Rugby , which provide holiday lunch club with play activity for entire family , include those with complex need . last summer it feed 25 family , last Christmas it buy slow cooker for family and this Christmas it be offer hamper . they treat family with dignity . as with food bank , be it not an indictment of the record of the last government that such charitable support be need in the first place ? make Lunch sound like an absolutely brilliant charity , and I ask my hon . friend to pass on our great thank for its fantastic work . that work be urgent , because the Child Poverty Action Group estimate that a quarter of child in my hon . friend ' s constituency be grow up poor . our child poverty strategy will be publish in the spring , but we will not wait to act . that be why the Budget announce a new fair repayment rate to slash universal credit deduction and give 1 . 2 million of the poor household £ 420 on average a year , lift thousand of child out of poverty . previous Labour government have tackle not only poverty but its root cause . can my right hon . friend outline how the child poverty taskforce will identify and tackle the root cause of poverty in my constituency and across the UK , to ensure a permanent end to child poverty ? I be sure that , like I , my hon . friend think that it be unacceptable that an estimate one in six child in her constituency be grow up poor . we have take immediate action to help the poor family in Scotland through our fair repayment rate , which will benefit 110 , 000 household in Scotland . we be tackle the root cause of poverty with our reform to make work pay , tackle exploitative zero - hour contract and create more good - quality job in every part of the country . child poverty be a scourge in british society , and I be grateful that the Secretary of State be bring forward a child poverty strategy . have she decide how to measure child poverty ? may I warn she against use the much discredited relative measure , which , as we know , show poverty decrease during time of economic decline and increase during time of economic growth ? I implore she to use an absolute measure , which have a much well record of show deprivation and long - term increase and improvement in living standard . I be afraid I will disappoint the hon . gentleman : we will look at relative poverty after housing cost , but we will go far and look to alleviate the very deep poverty . it be appal that hundred of thousand of family be force to rely on food bank — something that I know only too well from my time chair Feeding Leicester . we will look at relative poverty , deep poverty and what it will take to give every child the very good start in life , by bring together support from public service , charity and other group . that be the way to bring down poverty and make the change sustainable . Northern Ireland have some of the high child poverty figure in the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I be sure that the Secretary of State want to help . we have have a 70 % increase in food bank usage in my constituency in the past 12 month , which be an incredible indication . will she kindly tell I what discussion she have have with her counterpart in the Northern Ireland Assembly on what more can be do to help ? the Minister from Northern Ireland be a member of our child poverty taskforce . I hope to visit soon and the co - chair of the taskforce , the Secretary of State for Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) , also plan to visit . we have introduce the new fair repayment rate to slash the level of universal credit deduction because , as food bank in my constituency have tell I , that really push people into poverty . that be not what the Government should be do , and that be why we have take action . I look forward to come to Northern Ireland to talk to the hon . Gentleman , his constituent and the organisation fight poverty to see what more we can do . PIP Application Process what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the personal independence payment application process . the application process for personal independence payment be be keep under review . an online process be be trialle and we be look at further potential improvement . one of my constituent in receipt of PIP be sight - impair , deaf - blind register and can not use a phone or fill out form . can the Minister tell I why PIP reassessment be be schedule for people with incurable disability and terminal illness ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very fair point . it be , of course , important that we keep the award under review , because sometimes they go up as well as down and we want to ensure that the support be provide be appropriate for the claimant . we also need to ensure that the process be accessible — I agree with he about that . help can be provide to manage the assessment process . if he would like to send I more detail about his constituent , I would be glad to see what we can do to help . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . yesterday , it be report in the Sunday paper that a blind woman with additional complex need have her PIP assessment over the phone , which be approve , but be then send a letter to confirm that . the charity Sense say that over half the people it survey feel humiliate by the process . I know my right hon . friend be very keen to get this right , so will he expand a little more on the type of thing the Department be change ? before the Minister reply , may I ask Members to look at the Chair , as third party , when they be ask or answer question ? I be be cut out . those be not my rule but those of the House on how we should address each other , so if anybody have a problem , please have a word with the Clerks . my hon . friend raise a very important point . indeed , she and I work on an excellent Select Committee report on health assessment for benefit , which provide some very important and valuable recommendation to the Department . we will continue to look at this issue . I be not familiar with the case that she refer to , but I will dig out the detail . clearly , it be vital that the process should be accessible to people with sight impairment or any other impairment . I completely agree with she . young People not in Education , Employment or Training what assessment she have make of trend in the number of young people out of work , education and training . the legacy we inherit be almost 1 million young people not in education , employment or training — nearly one in eight — with all the long - term consequence we know that can bring for their future earning , job prospect and health . that be why our new youth guarantee will ensure that every young person be earn or learning , which be well for they , well for the economy and well for our country as a whole . the DWP have describe Peterborough as a national youth unemployment hotspot . in September , the youth claimant count be run at nearly double the national average . place like Peterborough college , through its Jobsmart provision , be already pull together a coalition to respond to that challenge . I welcome the Government ' s youth guarantee and " get Britain work " plan to ensure that young people in place like Peterborough be give the opportunity to earn or learn . will the Secretary of State please confirm a timetable for the publication of the White Paper ? the " get Britain work " White Paper will be publish imminently , back by £ 240 million of investment announce by the Chancellor in the Budget . I look forward very much to talk to my hon . friend and the organisation that be work so hard locally , because I believe that the man , or even woman , in Whitehall can never know what be good in Peterborough , Leicester or Leeds . a small business in my constituency to which I have speak over the last few week have raise concern about the impact of the national insurance rise in the Budget on , in particular , those in lower - pay work , who in many case be young people start their job . what impact do the Government think that those rise will have on young people and youth unemployment ? just last week I visit a very large employer in my constituency , Tesco , and see the fantastic work that it be do with the King ' s Trust to ensure that more people get into work and stay in work . it be determined to work with we and our local school , and employment and other provider , because they know that rather than write off nearly a million young people , which lead to the situation that we inherit , this new Government have a plan to get people into work , enable they to get on in work , and ensure that every young person have the chance in life that he or she deserve . I call the new shadow Secretary of State , and welcome she to her post . may I say how nice it be to be sit opposite the right hon . Lady again , albeit , regrettably , have swap place with she ? I enjoy our exchange on social care during the last Parliament , and appreciate our constructive conversation during the pandemic , although , give how well she know the care brief , I suspect that she be gutte , as I be , to see the incoming government abandon the care cap and scrap more than £ 50 million of funding for social care training . the consistent feedback from jobcentre be that the big barrier to young people take up job opportunity in social care be lack of career progression , hence our reform to create a career path for care worker and investment in training . have the right hon . Lady speak to her counterpart in the Department of Health and Social Care about the impact of those social care cut on her ambition to get more young people work or learn ? I , too , welcome the hon . Lady to her post . as she have say , while we will always have our political difference we have also work closely and constructively on issue that matter across the House , such as the terrible problem face social care during the pandemic . I will continue that work , and I hope that the hon . Lady will as well , in her new role . the hon . Lady ask about the impact of what be happen in social care on people ' s opportunity and chance to learn . I have already have many discussion with , among other , member of integrate care board , and they be passionate about the opportunity that exist to get more people into work and enable they to get on in their work , include job in social care . joined - up work between the Department of Health and Social Care and the Department for Work and Pensions will be at the heart of our plan to get Britain work , because , unlike some Opposition Members , we do not find it acceptable for 2 . 8 million people to be lock out of the workforce owe to long - term sickness . we have a proper plan to get Britain work and grow again . the right hon . Lady will know that under the Conservative Government youth unemployment fall by 380 , 000 , and that we be tackle inactivity with our WorkWell programme , help people to stay in work or return to work , which I be delighted to see the right hon . Lady continue . unfortunately , however , as a result of her Government ' s Budget and Employment Rights Bill , business will slash the number of their employee . moreover , the Government have just break another promise and hike up university fee . what advice would the right hon . Lady give a young person who be currently out of work and education , and must choose between bad job prospect and more expensive university degree thank to her Government ' s choice ? the hon . Lady ' s party leave nearly a million young people not in education , employment or training , and almost a record number of people — 2 . 8 million — out of work owe to long - term sickness . they fail to introduce reform to join up work , health and skill properly , and they have not learn from those mistake . I be proud that this Government be invest an extra £ 240 million to get Britain work again , give people the opportunity that they need to work and build a well life . Pension credit : uptake what step she be take to increase uptake of pension credit in winter 2024 - 25 . what step her Department be take to help increase uptake of pension credit . what step she be take to increase uptake of pension credit in winter 2024 - 25 . we have launch the next phase of our pension credit campaign on radio , tv and print medium , and the Government have write to 120 , 000 pensioner on housing benefit who may be eligible but be not currently claim pension credit . after less than five month in government , we be bring forward the merger of housing benefit and pension credit , which the Conservatives announce 13 year ago but fail to deliver . under the previous Conservative Government , many eligible pensioner in Sunderland Central do not receive the pension credit that they be due . when I speak to organisation such as Age UK Sunderland , they tell I that that be often because people do not know how and whether to claim . how many pensioner be now take up pension credit thank to the action take by this Government ? we have see a 152 % increase in pension credit claim since late July , with over 74 , 000 pension credit claim up to mid - September . we know that many local authority and , indeed , member of this House — include I last Thursday — be help pensioner on low income to ascertain whether they be due pension credit . there will be people who be eligible for pension credit live in very remote area , where connectivity be less than great . it be an appalling thought that they might miss out on what they be due . may I suggest to the Department that the way to reach out to those people might be through a database , follow by a mailshot ? in addition to merge housing benefit and pension credit , which will help some of the people whom the hon . Gentleman have in mind , the Secretary of State and I have ask the Department to look at what can be do to make the application form simple . the Department will report back to we by the end of the month , and we will update the House in due course . I welcome the Government ' s campaign to get people to sign up for pension credit , and I urge every pensioner in Gower to sign up and attend my pension credit event on 22 November . do the Minister agree that we should highlight the fact that pensioner who go over the threshold could still be eligible because they receive another benefit , such as attendance allowance , or because high housing cost be take into account when apply ? yes , indeed . assess somebody for pension credit be a complex procedure , so we urge all those on low income to check whether they be eligible . we have see an increase in the number of people apply online with the help of local authority , Members of Parliament and charity , and we urge everybody who think that they might have an eligible family member to encourage their love one to apply . temperature be set to drop to zero across Scotland by next weekend . many pensioner be scared to put on their heating , with the Big Issue report a three - month delay in claim for pension credit . can the Minister let we know what she be do to ensure that those claim be process as quickly as possible so that people can get the money into their pocket ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . we want people who be eligible to get support , and we have redeploy 500 staff to process those claim . I can assure she that that be something that we be focus on . we come to the shadow Minister . the withdrawal of the winter fuel payment from 10 million household , include 70 % of disabled pensioner , be a huge change , as be use pension credit to distribute the benefit to the minority of people who will still get it , yet the Government have rush this change through without give their own statutory advisory committee the chance to properly scrutinise it . minister have not even respond to the chair of the committee , who write to they several week ago with suggestion on how to mitigate the effect of the policy . on top of that , they have fail to provide a full impact assessment to show what the effect on poverty would be . will they finally produce a full impact assessment of this policy , and when will the Minister respond to the chair of the advisory committee ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . in answer to his question , we have publish an equality analysis , which he can find on the Government ' s website . owe to the legislation , we do not have to produce an impact assessment , but there be an equality analysis . I urge he to have a look at that . all I would say to he be that the new Leader of the opposition argue in 2022 that winter fuel payment should be mean - test . I wonder how the hon . Gentleman might mean - test the winter fuel payment , if he have the chance . the Minister mention the equality assessment . that be a high - level equality assessment that be only drag out of the Government in response to a freedom of information request . the fact be that they be avoid accountability for this policy and avoid scrutiny by the House . the Government be say that the impact of the cut on the poor pensioner will be mitigate by pension credit , and we have hear from the Minister about the very small number who be take up pension credit in response to this announcement . their own figure predict that fully a third of eligible pensioner — that be 750 , 000 of the poor people in the country — will not get pension credit and will not get the winter fuel payment . that be what the Government be bank on . that be how they be make the saving that they predict from this policy : by cut benefit to some of the poor people in our country — [ interruption . ] the Minister shake her head , so she might want to put I right . do she want all eligible pensioner to claim pension credit ? [ interruption . ] the Secretary of State say yes . if she do want that , do she then accept that the Government ' s saving from this policy will be completely wipe out ? yes , and no . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Steve Darling . on Armistice Day , it be important that we as a Chamber reflect on the Royal British Legion and its " Credit their Service " campaign . this be a campaign to ensure that when benefit be calculate , military compensation be disregarded . in the light of this , will the Secretary of State give serious consideration to disregard military compensation when calculate pension credit ? I associate myself with the hon . Gentleman ' s comment and those of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State . I will look carefully at what the hon . Gentleman have suggest and get back to he . poverty what step she be take to help reduce level of poverty . after 14 year of Conservative Government , 8 million adult and 4 . 3 million child be leave in poverty . among other thing , £ 240 million be recently announce in the Budget to support well work so that people can get the dignity of a good job and the security of a proper wage . detail will soon be available , as the Secretary of State mention , in our " get Britain work " White Paper . I thank the Minister for that answer and the assurance from the Dispatch Box that the maximum level of debt repayment from a household ' s universal credit be to be reduce from 25 % to 15 % each month . that be great news for scottish family , who could benefit by an average of £ 420 a year . much of that debt management be carry out at the DWP centre in Stornoway in my constituency , and some 65 of the 80 staff there be involve in respond to call nationally . that be a good example of job dispersal , and their service be high quality and be now involve in reduce poverty . I encourage the Minister to come and meet the staff there , to meet client and to see the operation for herself . my hon . friend mention the new fair repayment rate , which be another crucial part of the Budget and a downpayment on the action that we will take on poverty . I be fond of an invitation to Scotland , and I will happily accept that one . Universal Credit : assessment what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the universal credit assessment system . the Department have adopt an iterative approach , update the universal credit system to reflect user need as they develop . the new Government be commit to review universal credit to make sure that it be do the job we need it to . one of my constituent spend six hour fully awake during an operation that go wrong , as doctor battle to save her life . obviously , this affect her mental health , and she be deem unfit for work by her gp and by a clinical psychologist . she then go through a half - hour telephone assessment for her universal credit health check , which deem her fit to work , so she do not get universal credit and it be not backdate to the operation . do the Minister think that that sound right ? if not , will he review the case ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for draw my attention to that . what he have describe sound very odd indeed , and I will be happy to look at the detail if he will let I see they . we be absolutely committed to make sure that universal credit do the job that we need it to , include for people in the situation that his constituent have find herself in . last week , I be make aware of a constituent who be a carer for his wife , who experience a stroke in 2016 . the constituent be a veteran who live with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and be award carer ' s allowance in 2017 . late last year , the DWP begin demand the return of more than £ 51 , 000 in allege universal credit overpayment , and this April , under the previous Government , the DWP begin take it from his state pension without warn . will the Minister meet I to discuss this case in more detail so that I can help my constituent ? as my hon . friend will know , there have be some very troubling case of carer ' s allowance overpayment . I be not sure whether carer ' s allowance be part of the overpayment he describe , but I will be very happy to meet he to discuss what have go wrong in this case . jobcentre : Broxbourne what step her Department be take to increase the support available in jobcentre in Broxbourne constituency . jobcentre serve the Broxbourne constituency and elsewhere will change follow the " get Britain work " White Paper , which have already be mention . this fundamental reform will have three part : a new public employment service to get more people into work and to help they get on in work ; a join - up work , health and skill plan ; and a guarantee for young people age 18 to 21 . the Budget have make it even hard for small business in my Broxbourne constituency to create job . what can the Minister do to make sure that jobcentre connect with local business to help those who be look for work to find sustainable employment ? I thank the Minister for his question — [ interruption . ] honestly , I be still get use to be on this side of the House . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that jobcentre everywhere need to be locally responsive to employer , and that we need to provide an excellent service to local employer . if he have further thought on how we can make that work in his constituency , I would be very happy to discuss it with he . Universal Credit : two - child Limit what assessment her Department have make of the potential merit of remove the two - child limit for universal credit . the last Labour Government dramatically reduce child poverty , and we want to repeat their success . the child poverty taskforce be explore how to harness all available lever , include social security reform , and it will publish its strategy next spring . the Prime Minister have say that he want to break down the barrier to opportunity and tackle child poverty . he have also say that " insecurity be the enemy of opportunity . " give that by the time the child poverty taskforce report next spring , a further 16 , 000 child will have be drag into poverty , and give the devastating impact that poverty can have on a child ' s education , their health and their vulnerability to the criminal justice system , why will the Minister not do the right thing and scrap the two - child benefit cap to lift 300 , 000 child out of poverty immediately ? the strategy will be very clear about how we will tackle the scourge of child poverty , and the hon . Lady be absolutely right to highlight the importance of do that . Labour vote against the two - child limit , but we will not promise change until we know how we be go to pay for it . that will be address in the work of the taskforce , with the result publish in the spring . Household Support Fund : extension what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the extension of the household support fund in 2025 - 26 on low - income household . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the extension of the household support fund in 2025 - 26 on low - income household . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the extension of the household support fund in 2025 - 26 on low - income household . no specific assessment have be make of the impact of the household support fund on low - income household in 2025 - 26 , although we hear routinely from local authority across the country about the impact of the fund in support those who be struggle . an evaluation of the fourth iteration of the scheme , run from April 2023 to March 2024 , will be publish shortly , explore the benefit of the more than 19 million award make during this period . I agree that the payment of winter fuel allowance should be mean - test , because many pensioner who receive the winter fuel allowance simply do not need it . however , there be pensioner who be not entitle to pension credit who will struggle to heat their home . can the Minister please confirm the extent to which the household support fund will assist those pensioner in my Wolverhampton West constituency ? the household support fund be intend to support a wide range of household in need , include pensioner household . there have be no ringfencing of funding for specific group since October 2022 , mean that local authority have the flexibility to support pensioner who be just above the pension credit threshold . in the 2023 - 24 financial year , 26 % of household support funding go towards meet energy cost . I welcome the Government ' s decision to provide more than £ 1 billion in new funding for the household support fund , extend it all the way through next year , and to give much more notice to the local authority that deliver it . the funding be so important not just to countless vulnerable resident , but to great local organisation , such as the Need Project food bank in my constituency . how will the Department work with local authority to make the most of the notice and to ensure the funding go as far as possible ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as a former local authority leader , I know that above all else , certainty will allow council to design and deliver sustainable plan for local welfare assistance . the Government ' s commitment to fund the hsf until March 2026 offer that certainty and time to plan with great confidence . to that end , we will confirm individual allocation for the forthcoming one - year extension to the hsf as soon as possible , and ahead of the scheme begin on 1 April . because the household support fund be devolve to local council , there be lot of different example of how the funding be spend , so how will the Minister ensure that the money from council go to the people who really need it ? like I , my hon . friend be a former local authority leader — albeit a directly elect mayor , and with a far great mandate , therefore , than I ever enjoy . like I , he will appreciate the importance of empower local area to respond to local need . that say , all council must develop delivery plan to show how they be target the fund to support the most vulnerable , to ensure that the spirit of the HSF be uphold in help low - income household with the cost of essential . Pensioner Poverty what step her Department be take to help reduce level of pensioner poverty . the last Labour Government lift more than 1 million pensioner out of poverty , and this Government remain absolutely committed to support pensioner . we know that there be low - income pensioner who be not claim pension credit , and we urge they to apply . this will passport they to receive other benefit too . these be extremely worrying time for million of pensioner who simply can not fathom why one of the first act of this new Labour Government be to remove their winter fuel payment . the Minister will be aware that last month the SNP Scottish Government open application for the pension age disability payment , which could be worth up to £ 434 a month for pensioner with disability or long - term health condition . it will be pilot in Scotland next year . will the Minister join I in welcome this initiative and encourage those who be eligible to apply for it ? it be good to see that the SNP Government be focus on that issue now , because during their 17 year in government , we have see increase in pensioner poverty across Scotland . pensioner in poverty now have just 40 day to apply for the winter fuel payment via the pension credit system . will the Minister look at extend the deadline so that more people can claim pension credit and get the winter fuel payment ? I reassure my hon . friend that we have redeploy 500 additional staff to process the claim . we be work at pace to process they , but 21 December remain the deadline . carer : support what step she be take to improve support for carer . as a lifelong champion of unpaid family carer , I be proud that the first Labour Government in 14 year have give unpaid carer the big ever cash boost to the amount they can earn while still receive carer ' s allowance . that mean family carer can earn an extra £ 2 , 000 a year and still keep their allowance . that be the difference this Labour Government be make : support family who do the most important thing , which be care for the people that they love . I have speak to many people in my constituency of South Derbyshire who be take on care responsibility for love one . I know how hard that be and I be so grateful for the job they do , but it be often a thankless task . I be glad that the Government have take action to support people in our community who take on caring responsibility , but it be disproportionately woman who do so . will the Secretary of State outline how the increase in the threshold will benefit woman and allow they great freedom to work ? my hon . friend be right : 60 % of unpaid carer be woman , but woman spend more hour care , so they be disproportionately represent when it come to receive carer ' s allowance . this be a small , but significant and important , step forward . it be a signal that the new Government understand that as people live for long and care for long , we will have to do more to help family balance work and caring responsibility . that be the truth of family now : it be as much about care for our elderly and disabled love one as it be about care for our own wonderful child . Pension Credit : uptake what estimate her Department have make of the number of pensioner eligible for Pension Credit but not claim it . estimate for pensioner who be eligible for but not receive pension credit be publish in early October . the estimate show that more than 800 , 000 pensioner — individual pensioner , not household — be entitle to pension credit but be not claim it . as the Minister will know , the Chancellor ' s cruel decision to tie winter fuel allowance to pension credit , despite know that the uptake of pension credit be very low , will force thousand of vulnerable pensioner to choose heating or eat this winter . with 16 , 577 pensioner in Wokingham expect to be affect by the cut , will she extend the deadline to apply for pension credit and consider pledge further support to increase take - up ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my answer to my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) : the deadline remain 21 December . thank to the Government ' s steadfast commitment to the triple lock , more than 12 million pensioner will see their pension increase by more than 4 % in April next year , up to £ 470 . over this Parliament , they will be well off by around £ 1 , 900 , thank to the triple lock . low - income pensioner can also apply for the warm home discount scheme and , thank to the extension of the household support fund , local authority can target that support on low - income pensioner . in the long term , the warm home plan will transform home across the country by make they clean and cheap to run . child Poverty what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to reduce level of child poverty . as well as put in place breakfast club that mean child be ready to learn , and as well as the fair payment rate — we have discuss that — which will stop family be tip into destitution by debt , the ministerial taskforce , chair by the Work and Pensions and Education Secretaries , will publish the child poverty strategy in spring 2025 , use all available lever across government to bring about an endure reduction in child poverty in this Parliament , as part of a 10 - year strategy for last change . we know that the previous Government preside over shameful level of child poverty , include nearly 500 , 000 child who be eligible for free school meal but who be miss out . will my hon . friend , alongside the Education Secretary , urgently look at the proposal by Feeding Britain for auto - enrolment to free school meal as part of the single application process for family claim UC ? one person who have never look the other way when people be face poverty in this country be my hon . friend . through her innovation , she have ensure that household food insecurity be measure properly , and I pay tribute to her effort . I have listen to what she say about Feeding Britain , and I will take that as an input into the child poverty taskforce . I hope that she and Feeding Britain will meet I to discuss how we can take that forward . parent look for work what step she be take to help support parent who be look for work . help parent to have fulfil and sustainable work help our economy and prevent child poverty . as we have mention several time , the " get Britain work " White Paper will rewrite employment policy and set our ambition for an 80 % employment rate , but we will not get there without parent . in recent week , I have meet the DWP in Bournemouth and advice agency include the citizen advice bureau for Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole . advice agency welcome the record increase in carer allowance that be announce in the Budget . they and in - work parent with disabled child have also ask about the transition from child tax credit to universal credit . that may be a matter for the " get Britain work " White Paper , but can the Minister say how the Government will far support such parent to work and earn , and flexibly meet their family ' need ? I thank my hon . friend for bring this matter to the House , and I pay tribute to all those he have work with to understand the challenge that we face . he be right that we will take this forward through the " get Britain work " White Paper . Citizens Advice be play an important role in support that work , and the work of the child poverty taskforce . pension review what progress her Department have make on the pension review . I be lead the Government ' s landmark pension investment review , which aim to increase pension investment in the UK economy and improve retirement outcome for future pensioner . an interim report will be publish soon . phase 2 of the review , which will focus on pension adequacy , will be launch later this year . David Carson and Patricia Kennedy , constituent of mine in Central Ayrshire , face massively reduce pension payment from their pre - 1997 contribution to their Hewlett Packard pension , because current legislation index - link contribution from 1997 only . what assessment have the pension review make so far of the challenge face pension scheme , and will the Minister meet I to discuss David and Patricia ' s case ? the issue affect some hundred of thousand of people . I thank my hon . friend for raise that case . I would be very happy meet he , or any other hon . member who have such case in their constituency ; however , the pension review will look more at how current pension scheme can improve outcome for future pensioner . we be look at driving scale in consolidation of define contribution pension scheme and local government pension scheme , and at a shift away from cost to value . I know that there be interest in that from across the House , and I hope that we can work on it across the party . Winter Fuel Payment Eligibility : impact if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of change to the eligibility criterion for the winter fuel payment on trend in the level of pensioner poverty . the Government remain absolutely committed to support pensioner . we be urge pensioner to check their eligibility for pension credit to ensure that as many people as possible have access to the support to which they be entitle . ninety - seven - year - old Joyce from my constituency be worried about lose her winter fuel payment , so she contact my office . it sound like the Minister have have a similar experience . fortunately , my team be able to assist Joyce . we run a full benefit check , and help she to secure pension credit , and therefore her winter fuel payment entitlement . however , do the Minister think that it be right that the old and most vulnerable should have to resort to get their MP to help they claim pension credit ? I be glad to hear that the hon . Lady be able to help her constituent . we be look at the form , as I mention in a previous answer , and we will update the House soon on those development . Pension Credit : uptake what progress her Department have make on meet pension credit application target . the Department do not have a pension credit application target . publish application number show that we receive around 74 , 400 pension credit claim in the eight week from the end of July to mid - September . in the week follow the Chancellor ' s announcement on the winter fuel allowance , the number of pension credit application double , then nearly triple . now the DWP be delay release any more datum on this subject . I be concerned that the Government know that they will not be able to process the application on time , and that the information be not be put into the public domain . will the Minister tell I exactly how many pension credit application have be submit since 16 September , and whether the backlog will be clear before old people start have to make a choice between heating and eat ? I gently say to the hon . Lady that we be not delay the publication of statistic . a new set of statistic will be publish soon . as I say in previous answer , we have redeploy 500 additional staff to help to process pension credit application . we urge all those who have love one who be pensioner , or who be pensioner themselves , to apply if they think that they be eligible . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . the Budget take the first step in this Government ' s plan to drive up opportunity and drive down poverty in every corner of the country : it include an additional £ 240 million for our plan to get Britain work , a new fair repayment rate in universal credit to help over 1 million of the poor household , and the big ever package to reduce fraud and error in the system , ensure that every pound of taxpayer ' money be wisely spend . there be much , much more to do , but in the Department for Work and Pensions , change have begin . my constituent Kevin have to stop work in 2018 due to a medical condition . he be desperate to find a job , but have consistently find that he be not eligible for support from his local jobcentre . Kevin ask I , " how do someone who have fall out of work get back into work ? " will the Secretary of State or a Minister meet I to discuss Kevin ' s case , and see if , together , we can answer his question ? the hon . Gentleman raise an extremely important point . it be not right that his constituent , who want to work , have suffer from a mental health problem but do not have the support that he need . in part of the country , step have be take to help provide the healthcare and other support that people need , but we need to go far , fast . my hon . friend the Minister for Employment will indeed meet the hon . Gentleman . let ' s get crack on this and see what we can do . on my recent visit to Hertford and Ware food bank , hard - work volunteer raise with I the damaging impact of rule introduce under the previous Conservative Government , which prevent jobcentre from refer benefit claimant to food bank . do my right hon . friend agree that those change prevent some of the most vulnerable people in our community from access support in an emergency , and will she set out the step that the Department will take to reverse they ? there have be change to ensure that referral be gdpr - compliant , but I will happily discuss this issue with my hon . friend . the very good jobcentre be closely link with local support organisation , and we must ensure that that be the case everywhere . we come to the shadow Secretary of State . the Conservatives be the party of work and aspiration , and once again , we leave office with unemployment at a historic low . we all know that Labour always leave unemployment higher than when it come into office , but rarely have it seem in such a hurry to achieve that . its first Budget will , accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility , cost the country 50 , 000 job in the next few year alone . what assessment have the right hon . Lady make of the cost to her Department of those job loss ? may I gently say this to the hon . Lady ? she should be apologise , because we have record number of people out of work due to long - term sickness ; one in eight young people be not in education , employment or training ; and people be lock out of the world of work because the Conservatives fail to make proper plan to get people into work and on in their work . until Conservative member face up to their responsibility , and to the cost to the taxpayer of their mistake in not get people with long - term sickness into work — £ 25 billion extra over the course of the forecast period — they will remain on the Opposition Benches . I wonder if the Secretary of State do not hear my early question ; I say that I be grateful that she be continue the work that we do in government , through the WorkWell programme , to help people in ill health into work by join up healthcare and employment . however , the point I be just make , to which she do not respond , be that 50 , 000 job will be lose as a result of labour ' s Budget . that be not the only thing frightening the life out of business at the moment — order . the hon . Lady can keep point at I , but this be topical question , and I have all these Back Benchers to get in , so question really need to be short . thank you , Mr Speaker . the Budget be not the only thing frightening the life out of business at the moment . labour ' s Employment Rights Bill be a wreck ball for the UK labour market . labour ' s own impact assessment predict that business could cut staff — order . I do make the suggestion that you might come to the end of your question , but you decide to carry on reading , so I will have to stop you . I call the Secretary of State . I be very proud of a budget that invest in the long - term growth that this country need , that give a pay rise to the 3 million lowest - pay worker , and that invest in the NHS so that people can get back to health and back to work . that be the change that this country desperately need . as a proud member of the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers , I want to raise with the Minister the amazing work that it have do to produce the estimate that around three quarter of worker in typically low - pay sector be pay weekly , fortnightly or four - weekly , rather than monthly . that be not recognise by universal credit . will the Minister promise to meet USDAW and other trade union to make sure that this matter be investigate ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . if a person be pay four - weekly , they receive 13 payment a year , so in one of the 12 monthly assessment period each year , they be pay twice . that mean that they probably get no universal credit that month , which completely mess up budgeting . I would be delighted to meet USDAW , and perhaps my hon . friend , to discuss what we can do through our review of universal credit . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be sure all member in this Chamber be aware of the Women against State Pension Inequality campaign and the parliamentary ombudsman ' s finding . will the Secretary of State commit to make a statement in the House before Christmas on progress with her review of the ombudsman ' s report ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the ombudsman take six year to consider a range of complex case , and we be look at their complexity . I be the first Minister in six year to meet representative of the WASPI campaign . we hope to be able to update the House in the come week . the work of unpaid carer be of huge value and be often heroic . a recent report by Carers UK reveal that 42 % of those receive carer ' s allowance be struggle financially . I be therefore really pleased by the significant increase in carer ' s allowance announce in the Budget . it be the large increase in decade and will benefit many in my constituency . do the Minister agree that this change will help mitigate the financial challenge that carer have face for the past 14 year ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight that research from Carers UK . the Budget increase the earning threshold , so people will be able to earn £ 10 , 000 a year from work and still claim carer ' s allowance , and an extra 60 , 000 carer will become entitled to the allowance . it be a very big step forward . research from the University of Bath show that over half of working household receive UC have income that fluctuate from payment period to payment period , sometimes by up to £ 400 . this be to do with the way that assessment period be calculate , and the income come into people ' s account . in 2019 , the High Court rule that the system should be smooth , and that the DWP should look at different way of do that . can the Secretary of State update the House on where we be with the implementation of that High Court judgment ? as I mention early , we be commit to review universal credit . the way it work mean that in each assessment period — each month — there be a new calculation base on the income that the person have receive , as report by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . however , I would be very happy to meet the hon . gentleman to talk about how the system need to be improve far . carer matter , include the 3 , 400 carer in Swansea West , so I welcome the significant move in the Budget to increase the amount that carer can earn while retain carer ' s allowance . history tell we that awareness of the rule be low , so what plan do the Department have to communicate this important , major policy change to carer ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the threshold will increase on 7 April next year , and all current claimant will receive an annual uprating letter in the spring that will set out the new limit . as I mention a moment ago , 60 , 000 new unpaid carer will also become eligible for the allowance at that point . give the new Government ' s collective condemnation of the two - child limit over the eight year since it be introduce , which include condemnation from many Government Members on Select Committees , will they at the very least commit to scrap its heinous , sexist and frankly disgusting rape clause element ? the hon . Lady raise some of the bad aspect of the consequence of 14 year of Conservative Government . we will consider all those issue through the child poverty taskforce . I congratulate my hon . friend on be the Labour Member for Weston - super - mare . I have meet Liz Sayce , who will carry out the review , and she be rare to go . the term of reference and timeline have not yet be set , but they will be in the next few week . as soon as they be , the detail will be place in the Library . Kevin be a pensioner in Waterlooville who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and struggle to breathe in the cold . his personal budget put he , on average , about £ 55 above the poverty line , but he be one of many thousand of people who will be hit by the Government ' s cruel cut to the winter fuel allowance . political point scoring aside , what practical advice do the Minister have for Kevin to get he through the harsh winter ahead ? I would suggest a number of thing : the warm home discount scheme be available for those on low income , include pension ; we have extend the household support fund that local authority can and should use to help people on low income ; and in the long term , the warm home plan will help to make home across the country more energy efficient and cheap to heat . I will also say that thank to the Government ' s commitment to the triple lock , pensioner will be about £ 1 , 900 well off over this Parliament . as I say in answer to a previous question , we be look at the form . some 90 % of applicant now apply online , but we note that the paper form be long and we be consider how we can simplify it . Eastbourne veteran Pauline be award military compensation for injury that she sustain in the service of our country , but she say that that have cause her pension credit entitlement to plummet from £ 70 to just £ 10 . 42 a week . will the Minister meet I to discuss her case and ensure that no veteran be penalise for their service to our country ? the hon . member be the second person to raise that issue and I happy to meet they both . how many current Department employee can not receive further sponsorship due to the previous Government ' s change to the skilled worker visa salary threshold ? my hon . Friend ask an important question and I will be delighted to follow up with he in writing . accord to the census , 72 % of Somalis here live in social housing , compare with 16 % of the population overall . in answer to my write question , the Department say it be " explore the feasibility " of publishing benefit claim by nationality , which be important for a proper debate on benefit policy and immigration policy . can the Minister confirm that that work be go ahead and tell we when the datum will be publish ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that nationality and country of origin be not factor in assess benefit eligibility . we may look at that in future , but I would be delighted to follow up with he in write about how we will take it forward . when I speak to my constituent , from Lofthouse to Farnley , they be extremely concerned about the amount of money be lose to fraud and error in benefit . can the Minister confirm a timeline and a plan to get back the £ 35 billion that have be lose since the pandemic ? my hon . friend be right to raise that issue . the spiral nature of fraud in this country since the pandemic and on the last government ' s watch be totally unacceptable . we will bring forward a fraud , error and debt Bill in the come month , which be part of a much broad package — the large - ever package bring forward by any government — to take out more than £ 7 . 6 billion of fraud over the forecast period . Citizens Advice tell I that the DWP continue to start action on allege overpayment more than six year after the event . that be long than bank record be keep to prove otherwise . do the Secretary of State think that that be fair and right ? I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman be ask specifically about carer ' s allowance or about other benefit , but if benefit have be overpay , the Department have an obligation to recover the money . what be important be that overpayment be identify soon and that people be notify when there be a problem , so that we do not get the very large sum that have accrue in overpayment in the past . defence : 2 . 5 % gdp Spending Commitment ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on his commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . I congratulate the shadow Defence Secretary on secure the first Defence urgent question of the new Parliament . previous Defence Secretaries answer just two urgent question in the whole of the last five year . although I can not promise to answer every future UQ , I want to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s first one today to underline just how seriously I take our Department ' s responsibility to report to this House . the Government have a cast - iron commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . we promise it in our manifesto at the election , the Prime Minister promise it at NATO in Washington in July , and my right hon . friend the Chancellor promise it in the Budget two week ago , as well as announce a £ 3 billion boost for defence spending next year to start to fix the foundation for our armed force . that , of course , be on top of £ 3 billion each year for Ukraine . I remind the House that the last time this country spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence be in 2010 , with the last Labour Government — a level not match in any of the 14 Tory year since . everyone agree that defence spending must increase to match and deal with the threat we face . one of our very first act as a Government be to launch the strategic defence review , which be work at pace to look at the threat we face , the capability we need and the resource we have available . it be not just about how much we spend , but about how we spend it . the Prime Minister say at NATO that our plan in the SDR will come first , and then we will set out the pathway to spend 2 . 5 % ; the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say yesterday that this will come in the spring . today be Armistice Day . at the eleventh hour , I have the honour of lay a wreath at the Cenotaph . today be a reminder of what be at stake in this new era of insecurity ; a reminder that our dedicated servicemen and woman , around the clock , around the world , work to keep we safe ; and a reminder of the ultimate sacrifice that so many have make in the past so that we may live in freedom today . we will remember they . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker , especially on Armistice Day . I be grateful for the Secretary of State ' s response , but he keep go back to 2010 when we spend 2 . 5 % . that be true , but he say it without add the fact that his Government have bankrupt the country . in fact , I ask the House of Commons Library about this . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have confirm that if Labour have return to government , it be plan cut to the defence budget of 20 % to 25 % . but this question be about today . the threat picture be far graver than it have be for many generation , as the Chief of the Defence Staff confirm at the weekend . as the Secretary of State say , the Labour party commit in its general election manifesto to a " path to spend 2 . 5 per cent of GDP on defence . " the Prime Minister say shortly after take office that it be " cast iron " , which the Secretary of State have repeat today . with President Trump ' s election victory , there will inevitably be a great focus on what more european NATO member can do to boost Europe ' s own defence , but yesterday the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and this morning the Secretary of State himself be unable to say whether the Government would deliver on 2 . 5 % in the current Parliament . in addition , yesterday the Sunday Times report that Defence Equipment and Support in Abbey Wood have effectively be instruct to avoid any new procurement at all for the rest of this financial year . spend 2 . 5 % be not an end in itself . the key reason that in April we set out a fully fund multi - year pathway to 2 . 5 % be to enable the Ministry of Defence to procure , at pace and at scale , the munition that we need to urgently replenish our stock to warfighting level . with the whole world want to buy more munition , we can not afford to delay any far . I have key question for the Secretary of State , because at the same time we be have this debate , there be a whole load of new burden come for the MOD which it will have to cover . in which financial year do he expect the share of GDP spend on defence to start rise significantly , and will he guarantee to hit 2 . 5 % in this Parliament — yes or no ? not include exist programme , be it true that there be a freeze on new procurement of defence equipment and support for the rest of this financial year ? will the MOD be 100 % compensate by the Treasury for high employer national insurance contribution and for the cost of increase continuity of education allowance , and will service family be 100 % compensate for the extra vat on school fee ? penultimately , on Armistice Day can the Secretary of State absolutely rule out survive spouse of service personnel be tax on death in service benefit ? finally , on the Chagos island , in the Department ' s write answer to I it refuse to say how much the MOD will contribute to rent back our own military base , so this be a very simple question : the Secretary of State will not tell we how much it be go to cost , but do he know how much it be go to cost ? please remember that when I grant urgent question , the time each person have be limited . it be two minute for the main Opposition party and one minute for the other Opposition party . fourteen year the Conservative Government have to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , and there be not a plan or a pathway from the last government , as the shadow Defence Secretary try to claim . it be a political ploy that be announce four week before they call the general election . it be unfunded , and it be a con on the armed force and on the british people , who give their answer emphatically by sweep away Tory mp in many of the proud military community and constituency across the country . on the shadow Defence Secretary ' s accusation about a total spending freeze , I be put in place a grip on the out - of - control spending that the last Government leave . we be secure value for money , we be cut waste and we be get a grip on defence spending in a way his Government do not . we greatly value the continuity of education allowance and greatly recognise the role it play in help avoid disruption to the education of the child of serve personnel . in line with how the allowance operate , we will continue to pay up to 90 % of private school fee follow the vat increase in January . by uprate the cap , we will take account of any increase in spending . on the Chagos island , of course I know the detail because I be heavily involve in the negotiation . this secure Britain ' s military base , and it secure a military base for our US ally , which be why they welcome it so strongly . I have say to the shadow Secretary of State and to the House that when it debate the treaty , this House will have the full information . nobody know well the defence inheritance that 14 year of conservative government have leave we for the past four month than the shadow Defence Secretary : he be a Defence Minister at the heart of the problem , with billion - pound black hole , service morale at record low , and a crisis in the recruitment and retention of personnel . never again must a Government leave our armed force in a bad state than they find they , and this new Government will make this country more secure at home and strong abroad . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . we live in an increasingly dangerous and volatile world , with hundred of thousand of people die or be injure on our own continent in Ukraine , and war and conflict rage in the middle east , Africa and beyond , not to mention the increase nefarious activity in the grey zone . without a shadow of a doubt , we be deal with exceptional circumstance and we need to grasp the gravity of the situation . I have a great deal of time and respect for the Secretary of State because I know that he get it , but do other in government understand the gravity of the situation , because we need clarity ? we need a timetable so that not only our ally , but those in our defence community , know where we be head . yes , they do . everyone agree that defence spending must increase , and it be increase under this government . it increase in the first Budget of this new Government by nearly £ 3 billion for next year . alongside that be the cast - iron commitment that we be a Government who will set a path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . we be deeply concerned about the impact of the US election on Ukraine and Europe . President Trump be an unreliable partner and , within day of his election , US support to Ukraine be regrettably under question . clearly the UK need to urgently set out a path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . we need to lead in Europe . do the Secretary of State agree that the previous Government ' s legacy on our Army , which be the small since the napoleonic era , be deeply regrettable ? will he commit to secure a UK - EU defence and security agreement , as be on the table while Theresa May be Prime Minister ? will the Government convene a summit on save Ukraine , to begin the process of seizure of frozen russian asset , so that the UK and our european ally can support Ukraine regardless of the path the US take ? we do not need a summit to release the interest on the frozen asset — the corrupt russian money — as we be do that already . the Chancellor and I be work closely on that , and we have announce that , from early next year , £ 2 . 3 billion will be available for Ukraine for that purpose . I give the hon . Lady the assurance that we will pursue a UK - EU security pact , alongside the deep bilateral agreement we have already start to strike , include the one last month with Germany , which be the most comprehensive defence agreement this country have sign in many year . finally , the hon . Lady be right — I have argue this before — that at a time of increase global threat , european nation in NATO must do more of the heavy lifting . we must be prepared to spend more on defence , but we must also be prepare to work together to increase the level of deterrence we can offer to those who would do we harm . be President Trump not right in his first term , when he push NATO country to increase defence spending ? the number have go from six country meet the 2 % target back in 2021 , up to 23 country meet the target now . be this not serious , because if President Trump make decision on Ukraine in his second term , we might be face with a choice either to accept those decision or to step up and ensure Europe ' s defence ourselves ? I welcome the fact that 23 NATO nation will hit the 2 % spend this year . I regard that as a floor , not a ceiling . the UK , under government of both party , have always spend well above and set the pace for other european country . we will continue to do that , because european country in NATO must take on more of the NATO leadership . we be determined that the UK will do that , which be why we have say that our approach to defence will be a NATO - first policy . we will , wherever we can , look to be first in NATO , so that we set the pace on the sort of transformation to the well equipped , well able and more lethal force that our nation need to deter adversary and to defend ourselves if require . the Secretary of State be right that we use to spend a lot more than 2 % : in the 1980 we spend between 4 . 5 % and 5 . 1 % of gdp on defence . do he share my concern at what I hear on the radio this morning , when a labour politician in another place be say that he could see an outcome in Ukraine whereby Russia get to keep the territory it have occupy , while Ukraine do not get any guarantee of join NATO but merely some more security assurance ? we know what happen last time with the security assurance previously give . do the Secretary of State agree that , whether we spend 2 . 5 % on defence now or in the near future , it be important that whoever we send to Washington do not capitulate in advance ? the right hon . Gentleman make the important point , implicitly in his question , that it be the Ukrainians who be fight and the Ukrainians who will make the call about whether to talk and on what term . our task , as one of the lead supporter of Ukraine and its fight for sovereignty , freedom and its own future , be to support it and to step up our support for its fight , and then to step up our support , if necessary and whenever require , in any negotiation , as well as to play our part , as we have make the commitment to do , in provide any security guarantee for the long term . Russia have go to war in Europe , start in Ukraine . it be America and Britain that save Europe in the last war ; it look like this will be the same . Europe simply must step up . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with Lloyd Austin about America ' s role in the way forward ? to be quite honest with my hon . friend , it be a little early to have discussion with America . it be less than a week since the presidential election and the current Administration have more than two month to go . as she would expect , I be in detailed discussion with the current Administration and my counterpart there , in particular about how we together , as two of Ukraine ' s lead ally , can step up our support over the couple of month ahead . in the future , I expect a President Trump - lead Administration to recognise that it be in America ' s interest , NATO ' s interest and the interest of all country that believe in the international rule - base order and a stable and secure peace that Putin do not prevail , because if large country like Russia be able to redraw international boundary by force , that send a signal that undermine the security of all nation . if report be right that President Trump have already speak to President Putin and warn he against the escalation that we see from Russia in Ukraine , that be a good first step and early sign . the right hon . Gentleman know that I have the high respect for he , even if we have occasionally clash across the Floor . I ask he this simple question . in China today , one shipyard building naval vessel be out - build the whole of the United States ' naval capability — and it have many hundred . give that , and the threat from Russia , Iran and this totalitarian state axis , if Lord Robertson come back and spell out exactly what I believe he will — that this be the big threat we have face since the cold war — will the right hon . Gentleman not ask but tell the Prime Minister that the no . 1 responsibility be the defence of the realm , with 2 . 5 % now ? the Prime Minister do not need I to tell he that the first duty of any Government and of this Government be to defend the country and keep our citizen safe . he will not need I for that because he commission the strategic defence review ; my job be to oversee it successfully . he will not need any persuading of the argument , assessment of threat and capability recommendation that that strategic defence review , externally lead by Lord Robertson , be likely to produce . my right hon . friend be absolutely right not to give a scintilla of credibility to the idea that the conservative party , have spend 14 year never reach 2 . 5 % , would do that if only it have one more chance . he be also right that what be important be not just identify more money for defence spending but make sure that we start spend it well . can he say any more about what he be do to ensure that the huge wastage in defence procurement that we see under the Conservatives be bring into hand under his stewardship ? I be almost tempt to encourage the shadow Defence Secretary to answer that question , because he be Minister for Defence Procurement until four month ago , so he be principally responsible , for instance , for the fact that only two of the 49 large defence project be on time and on budget . he fail to fix what the Public Accounts Committee of this House — an all - party Committee — term the " broken " procurement system that have be fail our force and fail british taxpayer . this be a deep task of reform . it be not a glamourous task , but I have make it one of my first priority as Defence Secretary . be the UK able to provide an armoured division to NATO on an endure basis ? the armed force will always respond to the requirement place on they . we will always seek to fulfil our NATO obligation . one reason why I conduct a NATO test in the first 100 day be that I be concerned that part of the failure of the last 14 year have lead to our fall short . that be part of the inheritance that we take on as a new government . my determination as Defence Secretary be that we make our force fitter to fight and well able to deter and to play a lead part in NATO , as it step up our level of deterrence and defence across the 32 nation . today , on Armistice Day , we honour those who have serve , those who have fight and those who have make the ultimate sacrifice to protect the freedom we enjoy . do the Secretary of State agree that today and every day we must remember everything that our armed force be do to keep we safe ? will he come to my constituency to meet Sight Scotland Veterans , an incredible charity that provide amazing support to all our visually impair veteran ? at the risk of upset my diary secretary , I welcome the opportunity to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency and her local veteran group . she be right that , today of all day , we remember not just those who give their life for the way of life we enjoy today but the serve personnel — the man and woman in our armed force around the world . we currently have 10 , 000 personnel on operation in 50 different country around the world . this be a reminder of their work day in , day out to keep we all safe . let I assure the Secretary of State that those of we who have follow the defence debate over the last 10 , 20 or even 30 year know that he take these matter extremely seriously and understand the scale of the challenge that we face . in that vein , I encourage he to start tell the truth : that we will have to spend far more than 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence within quite a short number of year . a former Chief of the General Staff have warn that this country might be directly at war within the lifetime of this Parliament . may I suggest that the Secretary of State use his friend throughout this House to influence both his Government and the Treasury influence on the conservative side , because we be go to have to bust a gut for a major rearmament programme that we have not see in this country since the 1930 ? the hon . Gentleman have be consistent in his argument , and I welcome his contribution . the Treasury will have note it , and will probably take it as an early representation for the next Budget . in the meantime , I will ensure that the strategic defence review start with the threat that we face : war in Europe , conflict in the middle east and grow threat globally , as well as russian aggression more widely beyond Ukraine . we will ensure that we be able to match the capability that we develop with the threat that we face , and we will do so within the resource that we have available . my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) make the important point that the new Government inherit £ 167 billion - worth of project , none of which be rate green by the National Audit Office . do the Secretary of State agree that more money be one part of the equation , but spend it well be the other part ? indeed ; that be one reason why , early door in Washington , the Prime Minister not only reaffirm our iron - clothe commitment to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % but say that the strategic defence review come first , as a pathway to 2 . 5 % . that be exactly so that we can ensure that we increase what we spend , but also spend it well . in 2023 , I ask the Secretary of State ' s colleague , the right hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) , who be now the Education Secretary , how labour ' s plan for vat on school fee would impact the continuity of education allowance for force family . I be tell that I " need not be concerned about what we be discuss today . " — [ Official Report , 11 January 2023 ; Vol . 725 , c . 570 . ] it be two year on and vat on school fee go live in January , but detail of the rate of continuity of education allowance still have not be articulate to the force family in my constituency . as the proud MP for a military constituency , I can tell the Secretary of State that I be concerned and my constituent be concerned . what be the plan to well communicate with they ? I be sorry that our confirmation of the step we be take from January have not reach the hon . Lady . I will ensure that they be . there will be an uprating in the continuity of education allowance , which will ensure that our armed force who take advantage of the allowance will be able to get up to 90 % of the school fee they have to pay cover by that allowance , and that that take into account any rise in school fee as a result of the vat be levy . the shadow Secretary of State reference his so - call plan for defence spending back in April this year , a plan that the Institute for Government say do " not add up " and be " fictitious " . do my right hon . friend the Secretary of State agree that under this Labour Government we will never make funding commitment to our armed force unless they be fully fund ? I do . my hon . friend be right . the Institute for Fiscal Studies describe that so - call plan , the election pitch four week before the Conservatives call the election , as " misleading " and an empty promise . I give the House the undertaking that the plan we put in place will be openly discuss in this House . we will ensure that we can match the resource available to our plan . defence professional across Whitehall will have their head in their hand at this Government ' s commitment to 2 . 5 % at some point and when fiscal condition permit . to fail to commit on defence investment with the multiple security threat face we , from the Ukraine war to the middle east and a plethora of global cyber - threat , be strategically illiterate . those threat will not wait for the Chancellor to get a grip , so what urgent step will the Secretary of State take with the Chancellor to ensure at least the 2 . 5 % promise by the Labour party on defence be spend when the threat assessment demand it , which be now , and not when the Chancellor feel it to be convenient ? Mr Speaker , I be go to take what I can from the hon . Gentleman , which be an SNP welcome and an urging for an increase in defence spending . that will happen under a Labour Government . the scottish workforce , the scottish military and the Scottish - base military will play an important part in the defence of this country in the future . we have hear some chutzpah from the shadow Secretary of State for Defence today . the Conservatives have 14 year to get to 2 . 5 % , yet they demand it from we now . I be very pleased that the Secretary of State have set out how we will get towards 2 . 5 % after our strategic defence review , but in the meantime we have to clear up the mess the previous Government leave behind . can he assure the House that he and his colleague be work to clear up the waste and mismanagement they find when they come to the Ministry of Defence ? I can indeed . it be one of my predecessor as Defence Secretary who admit to this House that under 14 year of the previous Government the armed force have be " hollow out and underfunde " . that be no surprise when we look at the record of the Conservative Government when they come into office in 2010 , compare with the record of this Government . our first Budget have a £ 3 billion boost to defence . their first Budget have a £ 2 billion real - term cut . our manifesto have a commitment to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % . their first five year in government see an 18 % real cut in defence spending , which lay the foundation for the degradation and the poor state of our armed force , and the poor state of the finance that we have now inherit . the last government extend to state school pupil the undoubted advantage of the combine cadet force , which have be the almost exclusive prerogative of private school student . why , then — order . may I ask the right hon . gentleman to look at I while he be ask his question ? why , then , Mr Speaker , do this Government decide , last week of all week , to defund combine cadet force and thus remove the advantage that state school pupil be now enjoy as a result of decision take by the last government ? I simply do not recognise the right hon . Gentleman ' s description of any decision that we have take , and it would run contrary to what he and I agree be the value of combined cadet force . Most of we , in our constituency , have contact and working relation with good cadet force that give young people opportunity that they simply would not have at school or in any other walk of life . they have an important part to play in the future of individual , and also in the wide understanding of our armed force . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s recent announcement of the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill — a promise make and a promise be keep — but do he agree that this be just one part of the puzzle when it come to show that we can support our troop as they work to keep we safe ? indeed I do . my hon . friend be a strong champion in his constituency in Scotland for the armed force and veteran . I greatly value the visit that I be able to make with he before the election to talk to veteran in his constituency and talk about our plan to increase support in respect of employment , mental health and housing for the future . one of the big achievement of the last 14 year be the delivery of the aircraft carrier , both of which be station in Portsmouth , near my constituency . however , it remain clear that they be underpowered . we need more type 45 , more type 26 and more type 31 . if the Government be serious about the 2 . 5 % , when will they set out their plan to invest in our Royal Navy and , in particular , our aircraft carrier , so that our carrier strike group can provide a world - class capability ? the aircraft carrier constitute an important defence programme . we be consider the threat that we face and the future capability that we need as part of the strategic defence review , which will report in the spring , and we will follow that within our clear path and our commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , just as the Chief Secretary to the Treasury tell the medium yesterday . today be Armistice Day , which provide an important moment in which to pause and remember the huge amount that our armed force have do to keep we safe . on this day , do the Secretary of State agree that we must not only set out our ironclad commitment to 2 . 5 % , but support the armed force , their family and our veteran ? indeed . the force family who support those who put on the uniform be too often overlook , which be one reason why we introduce legislation last week for an independent armed force commissioner , as we promise to do at the election . the holder of this post will report directly to Parliament , will have access to personnel , site and information , and will be able to look into the concern of not just those who serve but the family who support they , in order to improve service life for the future . may I commend to the Secretary of State the role of Ploughshare , which be use to deal with the increase commercialisation of opportunity at the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory at Porton Down , in my constituency ? in the context of the Ministry ' s holistic review , which be now under way , will he undertake to ensure that that organisation be not hold back from extend its opportunity to commercialise asset emerge from MOD research ? one of the weakness in our system be that the often - excellent innovation , research and development do not get develop , invest in or commercialise , so potentially brilliant small company do not grow and expand . I have to say to the right hon . Gentleman that I be not familiar with Planshare — [ interruption . ] ploughshare . I do not even hear the name correctly . if the right hon . Gentleman would like to write to I with some detail , I would welcome his letter and certainly have a look . like other on this side of the House , I welcome the increase in defence spending that be announce in the Budget , after year of Tory cut to our armed force . do the Secretary of State agree that we need to increase defence spending in response to emerge threat around the world , from Ukraine to the middle east and Asia - Pacific , and that the figure of 2 . 5 % should be keep under review in the light of change event around the world ? yes , I do . my hon . friend make the important point that the starting point for any defence planning must be the threat that we face . at the heart of any defence plan must be the people who serve and on whom we depend . I make that heartfelt point particularly forcefully today , on Armistice Day . in 2021 , when Boris Johnson be Prime Minister , defence spending in the UK be 2 . 3 % of gdp . in 2022 , follow Russia ' s full - scale invasion of Ukraine , defence spending be 2 . 3 % of GDP . now that an isolationist President - elect be about to go into the White House , defence spending be 2 . 3 % of GDP . when will defence spending rise beyond 2 . 3 % of gdp ? I be not sure that I hear the hon . Gentleman welcome the fact that this Government have make a commitment to set a path to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp — a level that we have not have in this country for the last 14 year . everyone agree that an increase in defence spending be need , and it be need in order to deal with precisely the increase threat that he cite . I welcome the Opposition ' s new - find enthusiasm for meet the 2 . 5 % defence spending target , especially give that they be not able to meet it even once in 14 year . I gently remind they that the last party in decade to meet the target be the Labour party . do the Secretary of State agree that not only do we need to increase our spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , but we must remain steadfast in our support for the people of Ukraine to protect the entire continent of Europe ? I do agree . I pay tribute to the last Government for ensure that the UK lead in provide support for Ukraine . as a new government , we have be determine to continue that over the last four month . we have step up the military aid that we be supply to Ukraine . we have speed up that support in a way that President Zelensky now cite as a model for other country , and we be now spend more on military aid to Ukraine than ever before — £ 3 billion this year , next year and every year for as long as it take , plus the £ 2 . 3 billion that we will be able to release from the frozen asset seize from the corrupt regime of Putin ' s Russia . I would urge the Secretary of State to exercise a little bit of caution when refer to defence spending under the last Labour Government . as someone who serve in Iraq and Afghanistan , and who use some of the kit and equipment that be issue then , I know that there be some serious concern at the time , particularly around the Snatch Land Rovers , for example . I spend a lot of time drive around Basra in one of those , and a lot of people lose their life in those vehicle , so I would exercise a little caution and restraint . my question be on a different topic : the CEA . how much will meet the additional cost of vat cost the MOD from its own budget ? we will publish the financial figure for the CEA in due course and in the normal way . on the hon . Gentleman ' s previous point , I be very conscious of what he and those who serve in Afghanistan and Iraq face . I be very conscious that at time during the last Labour Government , as with any Government , the kit and equipment be lack . that be why we try to replace the vehicle , use urgent operational requirement at the time . although we inevitably fall short in some area , we be spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence in 2010 , when we be last in government , and the strength of the full - time British Army be over 100 , 000 soldier . I associate myself with the comment of hon . and right hon . member about Armistice Day . during the previous Government , the size of our armed force shrink from 192 , 000 to 138 , 000 — a 28 % decrease . do my right hon . friend agree that it will take this Labour Government to put our defence back on the firm footing that we need in an increasingly dangerous world after many year of underinvestment ? my hon . friend be right . he be point to armed force number and to the heart of a deep , long - run problem : the crisis in recruitment and retention in our force . recruitment target be set every year for 14 year and miss every year for 14 year . we be take step to start to deal with this , include through the large pay rise for our armed force for over 20 year , so that I can now stand here as the first Defence Secretary to be able to say that all those in uniform be now be pay at least the national living wage . the introduction of an independent armed force commissioner to improve service life will start to reset the nation ' s contract with those who serve and the family that support they . last year , global arm expenditure reach $ 2 . 4 trillion , the high level since the end of the cold war . UK arm expenditure go up , and it will no doubt go up a lot more because of the statement that the Secretary of State have make today . he rightly mention the conflict in Ukraine and the conflict in Gaza , and I think he could have mention Sudan as well . what action be he and his Government take to try to bring about a cessation of those conflict and of global tension to allow defence expenditure to be reduce globally so that some of that money can be use to deal with the serious environmental and inequality issue that face this planet ? we can not wish away the threat , and we can not wish away the conflict , which be why it behove any Government to ensure that we have the armed force that be capable and equip to deter those who would do we harm . on the question of conflict , our support for Ukraine be steadfast . that conflict could be end today if Putin withdraw from his illegal invasion of that sovereign country . on the middle east , we have argue and work — in opposition and now in government — for a ceasefire in Gaza that would allow the immediate release of all hostage and the necessary flooding of humanitarian aid to palestinian civilian . that be a first step towards a political process that must be direct towards a two - state solution , which be the only guarantee of long - term peace and security in that region . I have the privilege of start my day in Shefford , just up the road from the chicksand base in my constituency , mark Armistice Day with local veteran and the wide community . I welcome today ' s commitment to ensure that we finally have a credible plan to get to spending 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , but as the Secretary of State have set out , it be about not just what we spend but how we spend it . the last Government spend million on armed force accommodation but all too often leave the force in my constituency in shocking situation . will this Government be different in ensure that our armed service can finally access the quality of accommodation they deserve on local basis ? my hon . friend be right . time and again survey of armed force personnel show that poor - quality housing , which would be intolerable in civilian life , be cite as a reason for low morale and an intention to leave the force early . this be an underlying problem that we will fix . we will not be able to do that overnight but we be determined that we will provide the accommodation and housing that our hero in uniform have a right to expect . I completely agree with the Defence Secretary that defence spending must increase to meet the threat we face . give that the threat be visible and increase , I find myself nod in agreement with Admiral Lord West ' s recent guardian article , in which he say we should be bold and move directly to spend 3 % of gdp on defence . do the Defence Secretary agree with his revered Labour colleague ' s assertion ? if not , why not ? in our first Budget , we increase next year ' s defence spending by nearly £ 3 billion . we have a cast - iron commitment to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp — a level that , over the past 14 year , conservative Governments simply never match . the Secretary of State rightly refer to R & D spending and small firm , yet small firm in my constituency tell I that spending have dry up . can he assure I that this be just a blip and that normal flow will resume as soon as possible ? I think the shadow Secretary of State will agree that one of the necessary reform to our procurement system , especially in an era in which innovation and technological development will be at an increase premium , be to do much more to support small and innovative firm , perhaps include some in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . we have to reform our procurement system to ensure that happen , and we will . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer to all the question . I seek an assurance that our spending will focus not only on cyber - security , which be obviously essential , but on recruitment and retention . that spending must take account of the fact that , in April 2024 , the Army fall below its target size for the first time since it be set , mean that all three service branch be currently below target — the Army by 1 % , the Royal Navy and the Royal Marines by 5 % , and the RAF by 10 % . overall , the UK armed force be 5 , 440 personnel , or 1 % , below target . we need an assurance on recruitment . the hon . Gentleman set out some of the detail and dimension of the crisis we face in recruitment and retention . we will start to turn that around , but we will not be able to do so straightaway . we have make a start with proper , fully fund pay award for our armed force this year . we be also make a start with new legislation to set up an armed force commissioner to improve service life . we will take further step to renew the nation ' s contract on the support we can offer to those who serve and the family who support they . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . you know how strongly the House feel about the Government ' s decision on the Chagos island . the Defence Secretary have make it very clear today that the Government know what the cost of that settlement will be to the Ministry of Defence . many colleague have repeatedly ask , through oral question and write question , what the cost will be . this be public money . give that the Government refuse to tell we what the cost will be , can you advise we on how else we can probe to find out how much public money will be use ? the hon . Gentleman have certainly put that question on the record again , and I be sure the Secretary of State be listen very carefully . he may wish to respond — or perhaps not . I be sure the shadow Secretary of State will not give up at this stage and will find other way to seek that information , which I be sure will be forthcoming at some point . I be sure he will continue to ask the question . Rail Performance with permission , Mr Speaker , I shall make a statement about rail performance . I welcome the shadow Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , to his place . I be sure the opposition will be interested in what we have to update the House about this afternoon . after 14 year of neglect , our inheritance be a railway that be fail its passenger , with cancellation at a 10 - year high and punctuality that be consistently inconsistent across the network . back in 2015 , cancellation represent around 2 % of all service , but thank to our inheritance of extraordinary failure , that double to 4 % when the last Government leave office . the situation be hold back our economy , stifle our business and make life miserable for passenger . that be why , as part of this Government ' s public service reform agenda , we be push ahead with the big overhaul of our railway in more than 30 year . I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for this opportunity to update the House on the progress we be make . as member will be aware , the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill be make its way through the other place . it will allow the Government to give three month ' notice to the first private train operate company to be take into public ownership , which we will announce as soon as Royal Assent have be achieve . no one have ever pretend that public ownership alone be a silver bullet . the people impact by delay and cancellation , who can no long rely on the train to get where they need to , do not care who own the train — they care whether they be work or not . under the model we inherit , no one could argue that they be work , so we will soon launch our consultation set out plan for unification across the railway . as part of that , great British Railways , as the single direct mind , will plan service on a whole - system basis , to well deliver for passenger and freight customer , unlock growth and provide the service a modern , efficient railway should . that will lay the groundwork for the introduction of the railway Bill , later this Session , which will establish great British Railways and end the fragmentation that have hamper our railway for over 30 year of privatisation . but we do not want to wait for legislation . the Government be already make improvement and take step to deliver reform across the railway . I have appoint Laura Shoaf as chair of shadow Great British Railways , bring together Network Rail , the publicly own train operating company and my Department to drive well integration now . work with operator already in public ownership , we be seek to drive saving by eliminate duplication and deliver the improvement that passenger want , such as allow ticket to be accept across those toc in public ownership during disruption . Shadow GBR give we the tool to assess the structure of the timetable , question resource plan and review performance measure and target . we be use those tool to unlock the punctuality and reliability that passenger deserve across the country . for example , Southeastern be now perform much well . its cancellation be low , with its punctuality rank among the top five operator contract to my Department , and that level of service will increase by 44 additional train per day when the timetable be update in December . that be what shadow Great British Railways be deliver now . we be demonstrate what integration between track and train can deliver for passenger . take those who rely on Euston station , for example . indecision on HS2 leave passenger with few platform and great overcrowding , victim of the so - call " Euston dash " . Convening Network Rail and train operator at Euston in the interest of passenger be an excellent example of the benefit that our reform agenda can achieve . Euston now not only have an integrate station management team , but a 100 - day plan of rapid improvement that put the interest of passenger first and individual organisation second . platform announcement be make early , crowding have be reduce and , yes , the advertising screen have be temporarily switch off . delay and cancellation be not the only inheritance . for two year , strike follow strike , and disruption follow disruption , in the long industrial dispute on our railway . I have make it my priority to get around the table , reverse the previous Government ' s antagonistic approach by reset industrial relation and settle the pay dispute that see the country grind to a halt . I be work with the sector to speed up training and accelerate the driver recruitment pipeline , which will reduce the railway ' s reliance on rest day work agreement and lower the burden on taxpayer . settle this saga allow we to move forward with long - overdue negotiation on workforce reform , bring our railway into the 21st century . that be what move fast and fix thing look like . we be put passenger first and , today , I can inform the House that since the resolution of the LNER driver dispute , we have see green shoot emerge , with the number of LNER cancellation fall . not only have cancellation due to a lack of driver resource drop to near zero as a direct consequence of get around the table with union , but revenue be £ 15 million high for the recent rail period this year versus the same period last year . overall cancellation be down from 7 % to 5 % , and LNER have run 100 more train service in the last four week than in the comparable period last year . elsewhere , passenger will see a tangible impact on reliability on Northern Rail train . thank to our agreement on rest day work , hundred more driver shift have be cover this weekend , cut cancellation now and in the long run . at TransPennine Express , operator - cause , on - the - day cancellation average around 2 % in the last year , compare to 5 % in the year before it be take into public ownership . on CrossCountry , we take immediate step to implement a remedial plan to reduce its cancellation and get service back on track . its reduced timetable have bring great stability , and I expect even great reliability in the long term as the full timetable return today . those be early sign of what happen when a Government get a grip and put passenger at the heart of decision making . reset industrial relation be already have a direct impact on well service , but it will take time to pass all the benefit on to passenger . we have to be clear - eyed about the problem , but we be commit to full transparency . I can announce today that we will be fully transparent with passenger by display performance datum at station to demonstrate how the railway be work and to allow the public to hold we to account as we deliver change . that be important , because the railway be a promise — a promise to passenger from the moment they buy a ticket that the train will arrive on time , as the timetable say . while there be encourage sign , I be not naive to the reality that passenger will see only a broken promise so long as the departure board show train delay and service cancel . that be why I have approach the situation with the urgency it demand , include focus on performance today ; bring together industry to make it clear that improvement that can be make now must be make now ; and use every tool at our disposal to drive improvement as fast as possible . at the same time , the root of the problem grow deep . decade of muddle decision making have leave the railway fragment . we have tolerate an unworkable system of track in one organisation and train in another for decade too long . this government will turn the page on that chapter of fragmentation . I have waste no time in kick - start the long - term reform that our railway desperately need . we have waste no time in bring train operating company under public ownership . as today ' s figure show , we have waste no time in get around the table with union and make change happen now . that be what move fast and fix thing look like , and I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for share an advance copy . I agree that rail performance be a key concern to passenger throughout the country , and it be a fair criticism to say that several operator have consistently underperformed . that be why , when we be in government , we take action to improve performance on our railway , invest more than £ 100 billion to operate and enhance our railway since 2010 , and electrify more than 1 , 200 mile of track — compare to just 63 mile under the last Labour Government . I be glad that the Government be take forward the framework offer in the previous Conservative Government ' s Williams - Shapps review . have a more join - up rail network should indeed deliver key improvement . however , it be disappointing that the Government have progress with their plan for the effective nationalisation of the rail operator by end private rail operator franchising , despite all the evidence point to the fact that that will be contrary to the aim of improve rail performance . we know that while in some case it have be necessary in the short term to bring rail operator into public control , it have not make the difference in performance that the Government would have we believe . it take only a cursory glance at passenger rail performance statistic to see that some of the rail operator operate under public control have do little or nothing to improve cancellation or delay in relation to other operator . for example , the Secretary of State mention TransPennine Express and a decrease in cancellation since the operator be take into public ownership , but she make no reference to delay . datum from the Office for Rail and Road show that in the four year prior to the train operator come under public control , passenger face an average of 8 , 130 delay minute per month . from period 2 of 2023 - 24 , when the operator be bring into public ownership , up to period 4 of 2024 - 25 , average monthly delay have increase by 1 , 677 minute , to 9 , 807 a month . in addition , for the year ' 23 - 24 , datum show that train operator run by private company in England have an average on time rate of 64 . 36 % . for train operator in public control , by contrast , the average be 57 . 7 % — a difference of just under seven percentage point . public ownership be not the panacea that the right hon . Lady claim , so it be disingenuous for the Government to argue that wholesale public control of rail operation will do everything to improve performance , particularly for operator that be already perform well . under the Government ' s plan to end private rail operator franchising , the first contract set to expire and be pick up by the Government be some of the high perform franchise . the Government risk make the mistake of take credit for comparatively strong performance , which will occur not as a result of their measure but as a result of the success of the previous private franchising . that would mean the government draw the wrong conclusion from their action , and it would have implication for future decision making . it should be appreciate that the role of open access operator have be one of the great success story within our rail network . it be therefore incumbent on the Government to provide great clarity to the sector on how their plan for the rail network will impact on open access operator . it be also essential that the Secretary of State finally clarify the long - term plan for roll stock under the Government ' s measure . I appreciate that in Labour ' s brave new world , all decision be reflect through the ideological prism of " public good , private bad " , but there be a fundamental risk that the Government be take ideological action to the long - term detriment of rail performance . among our counterpart in Europe , it be widely acknowledge that rail privatisation have be successful in increase passenger number , encourage investment and controlling cost . in Italy , for example , price have reduce by 31 % , and Austria have witness a 41 % increase in service frequency . there be a serious risk that the Government ' s plan will take we backwards on those key area without offer any promise of improvement on performance , or improved journey or fare for passenger . we all fully acknowledge the difficulty face our railway , and nobody should accept poor performance — we have , unfortunately , see that in some area of our network — but merely enact demonstrative but counterintuitive measure design to communicate action be no substitute for make measured and pragmatic choice . for example , the Government and the Secretary of State have choose to offer inflation - bust pay rise with no working practice reform in exchange . without substantial working practice reform , it be deeply unlikely that the cost of the pay deal will be offset by improved performance , and the failure to introduce work practice reform will mean continued performance difficulty on our railway . can the Secretary of State offer a guarantee today that end private rail franchising without implement work practice reform will lead to demonstrably improve performance ? if she can not offer that guarantee , the Government should shelve the ideology and take a step back to pause and examine whether their package of measure will truly improve rail performance . it surely make more sense to learn from the performance statistic ; to understand from the experience of the continent and our past the improvement that the private sector can bring ; and to prioritise the practical over the ideological . I be grateful to the shadow Secretary of State for acknowledge that we provide the statement in advance , and I suggest that next time he read it before he respond . he will have hear I say that public ownership be not a silver bullet , hence why we be set out a substantial package of reform . as I also mention , that include substantial workforce reform , include develop training policy — that be one of the way in which the recruitment of driver have be really hold back — and reduce reliance on rest day work agreement . the shadow Minister might also want to check the late statistic on TransPennine Express . it have the large increase in punctuality of any operator contract to my Department , include all those in private ownership . we have be clear that open access should continue where it do not abstract revenue from the overall network and where there be capacity . there have be good example , such as Lumo and Grand Central , and we be very happy to continue work with they . we will publish a long - term roll stock plan in due course . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . the Transport Secretary ' s statement be hugely welcome . bring privately own train operating company into public ownership as well as set up GBR will inevitably add to her Department ' s workload , so what preparation be she make to manage that additional workload ? I be grateful that my hon . friend be concerned about my work - life balance — so be I . we be staff up the operator of last resort , as it be currently know — we will shortly change its name , as it will no long be the operator of last resort — and the Department have significantly increase its capability . under the previous Administration , no one in government take responsibility for the running of the railway . we be take a very deliberately different approach and , as passenger - in - chief , we will ensure that both the operator of last resort and the Department be sufficiently staff up to manage the quick and successful transition of franchise into public ownership . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . I also welcome the new shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , to his position . the Lib Dems welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement that performance be improve , and commuter and business be relieve that industrial action have be curtail . it be disappointing , however , that the union be not require to agree any meaningful improvement to productivity as part of the settlement . clearly , we be not yet out of the wood — or perhaps I should say the tunnel . under the Conservatives , delay , cancellation and overcrowding become commonplace . last year , more than 55 , 000 rush hour train be either partly or fully cancel — a 10 % rise on the previous year , and the bad of any year since 2019 . although the late news be welcome , there be many mile leave to go on this journey . the Government ' s policy of nationalisation be , as the Secretary of State herself concede , no silver bullet . early this year , the Office of Rail and Road find that four of the eight least reliable operator , with the high cancellation rate , be public , while the three most reliable operator , with the low cancellation rate , be private . I have three question for the Secretary of State . first , what step be she take to ensure that the bad , rather than the good , private operator be nationalise first ? secondly , where a private operator ' s performance be of a high standard than that in the public sector , will she consider extend its contract ? finally , give the still shocking level of accessibility on much of the network , will she urgently provide an update on when the stall access for all programme will be back on track ? to confirm , we be work with the trade union at the moment on productivity improvement . we be clear that some of the practice in place on the railway be not acceptable or fit for modern and efficient railway . in the pay deal , there be a side letter and agreement to work through training improvement , and we want to ensure that that be deliver . the previous Government ' s approach mean that they not only fail to deliver any workforce reform improvement , but preside over the long industrial dispute in our railway ' history , cost the taxpayer and passenger hundred of million of pound . the hon . Gentleman be right to point out that cancellation be high in the publicly own toc . that be a result not least of the fact that the one that be in public ownership be already the bad perform , and we need to look at how they have improve under public ownership . the real benefit will be bring about under great British Railways , when we will be truly able to integrate track and train and deliver those improvement . we will set out the schedule for bring the private toc into public ownership once Royal Assent have be give to the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill , but the right balance must be strike between performance and return for the taxpayer , because we be spend hundred of million of pound in dividend payout and management fee . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to mention the Access for all programme and accessibility , which have not be good enough under Network Rail . I be happy to write to he about specific station in the programme . everyone be praise my right hon . friend to the heaven now that High Speed 2 will end at Euston . she be welcome to Old Oak Common in my constituency any time to have a look - see at progress there . however , can she help to fix the daily delay that constituent be face on Crossrail ? West Ealing and Acton Main Line be get a bad service than they be before all this . we want to build , build , build , but people in new home need to be able to travel . the day when everyone be praise I to the heaven on HS2 be one I look forward to . as my hon . friend know , brand - new Elizabeth line train be on order ; the Mayor of London be award a £ 485 million capital settlement in the Budget partly for those train , which be be produce at Alstom in Derby . that will significantly reduce the overcrowding and delay that she talk about . the Department work with the Mayor of London very closely on address those delay . I thank the Secretary of State for come to the House and update we , because it give she an opportunity to correct the record . she may have inadvertently mislead the House at the last Transport question about the Birmingham to Hereford line and West Midlands Railways ' performance . back in May , a terrible one in 10 of those service be be cancel , but by October when transport question take place , one in six Birmingham to Hereford service be be cancel . will the Secretary of State commission her official to talk to representative from West Midlands Railways about that line , and find a way to move fast and fix that service ? either the Rail Minister or I will of course seek to meet representative of West Midlands train to address its performance . I call Select Committee member Laurence Turner . the shadow Secretary of State say that we should pay attention to performance statistic . the figure that I have obtain from the Department show that over the past seven year , there be a 35 % increase in temporary and emergency speed restriction on the network . the Secretary of State have a difficult inheritance , but can she set out for we the work that she be do to refocus the industry on the hard graft of understanding , maintain and improve our crumble infrastructure ? Shadow Great British Railways bring together the Department , Network Rail , and those operator that be already in public ownership to look at integration and ensure that our investment in the network deliver improvement for passenger as quickly and efficiently as possible . that work will absolutely cover maintain the network , and we will set out how we will do so in the next control period , as we look towards the second phase of the spending review . I welcome the gusto with which the Secretary of State approach her work , and in particular her motto , which be " move fast and fix thing . " have she speak to Network Rail recently ? its motto seem to be " move slow and break thing " , at least in Oxford , give the way it have mismanage the Oxford train station upgrade . for the second Christmas in a row , business along the Botley Road will not be open . we have a meeting later this week with those business , and I have ask for a meeting with the Rail Minister , but he seem too busy . would the Secretary of State give I just a moment of her time , so that I can work with she on how we can move forward ? this be not acceptable , be it ? I completely empathise , and agree that the situation in Oxford be not good enough . the hon . Lady ' s characterisation of Network Rail be partly why it be be abolish as we establish great British Railways . I will of course meet she to discuss how we can improve the situation . I welcome the Transport Secretary ' s comment today , and her emphasis on good industrial relation in the rail industry . why do she think that this Labour Government be able to work with trade union such as ASLEF to end the national strike , improve service for passenger within week of take office , when the previous Conservative Government be unable to do so over several year ? the truth be that the previous Government deliberately provoke and prolong that strike , the long in the history of our railway . they budget for a pay settlement not far off where we land , and that pay settlement have already pay for itself through increase revenue and improved service for passenger . Chiltern Railways be absent from the Secretary of State ' s statement , but when it come to rail performance , for my constituent — both those on the chiltern main line and those on the Aylesbury branch — daily overcrowding be a reality , with passenger often be leave on the platform . give that the previous Government step up , with a commitment to ensure that Chiltern get more rolling stock to tackle the overcrowding challenge , will the Secretary of State make it a double priority to get Chiltern those extra train and end this overcrowding ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . Chiltern be the worst - perform operator last year , in term of the reduction in punctuality , which far make the case for public ownership . the previous Government make lot of commitment , few of which be fund , but I will take that question away and determine where the roll stock order be . I call Select Committee member Catherine Atkinson . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s success in end national industrial dispute as a first step to deliver well service for rail passenger . do she agree that the establishment of great British Railways in Derby represent a far positive step in get Britain move again ? can she update the House on the governance framework for shadow Great British Railways , and how it will work with stakeholder on function such as produce a business plan ? I be delighted to be in Derby recently to confirm that the headquarters of Great British Railways will be in that rail city . I be also delighted that , as I say , Alstom be manufacture the new Elizabeth line train , as a consequence of funding award in the Budget . Shadow GBR be really important for engage with stakeholder and , crucially , put passenger at the heart of develop a new culture — and a new organisation , in great British Railways . it have the expert chairing of Laura Shoaf , who bring substantial planning and transport experience from her time as chief executive of West Midlands combine authority . I call Select Committee member Rebecca Smith . it have recently be bring to my attention that in great Western Railway , which serve my constituency in Devon , driver do not have contract that ensure a seven - day - a - week service — the contract do not include Sundays , so train be regularly cancel . in fact , four train be cancel yesterday , so one lady have be force to catch the first train today instead . what plan do the Secretary of State have to equalise driver contract under great British Railways , to ensure that route such as Paddington to Devon be fully staff seven day a week , so that she can fulfil her promise to passenger ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right , and unfortunately that be the picture across too much of our railway . the workforce term and condition be simply not fit for purpose . part of our inheritance be that we do not have a workforce that can deliver a modern and efficient railway . we be work with Great Western Railway to address that egregious issue , and we will come back to the House shortly to set out our progress . I call Select Committee member Dr Scott Arthur . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and for the leadership that she be show to get our railway back on track — sorry for the pun . I be pleased that she mention LNER and Lumo , which do a fantastic job of connect Edinburgh and London , and of provide a stress - free alternative to fly . when she first take up her post , she be clear that she want hs2 to get a grip of cost . do she feel vindicate , give the report over the weekend of more than £ 100 million be spend on a single structure , despite some of those involve say that they be not aware of the need for it ? it be extraordinarily frustrating to see the news of the obscene amount of money spend on that structure to do with HS2 . that happen under HS2 ' s previous leadership . we be resolve this by bring in Mark Wild imminently to lead the organisation , and we be also resolve issue around cost control and governance through James Stewart ' s governance review of HS2 . these thing happen under the previous Government , and fortunately the electorate resolve that issue for we on 4 July . after a weekend of cancellation at Windermere , Oxenholme and elsewhere , will the Secretary of State have a word with Northern Rail , to remind it that it be mean to run a rail service on a Sunday ? will she also speak to Avanti — many hon . member may agree with I on this and have the same experience — because service from London Euston to Glasgow Central be habitually stop at Preston , even when the track be clear all the way to the scottish border and beyond ? it harm my constituent at Oxenholme , and those in Penrith , Lancaster and Carlisle . I have routine conversation with Northern Rail , as the hon . Gentleman would imagine . the most recent be on Thursday . we facilitate a new rest day working agreement with it , which have significantly reduce driver cancellation , but there be an outstanding issue with conductor ; there be a very similar situation with Great Western . in part of Northern Rail , particularly in the north - west , sunday be not include in the working week . that have lead to an unacceptable amount of cancellation , which we be work to resolve . I will raise the issue of stop at Preston with Avanti separately . Doncaster have a long and historic relationship with the railway ; we be home to both the Mallard and the Flying Scotsman . the financial sustainability and success of rail be critical to our local economy , so can the Secretary of State update the House on the net cost of the solution that she broker to end the strike ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the strike be cost we £ 20 million a day in lose revenue . that be aside from the economic impact of people come off the railway and not make journey to work , to see friend and family or to visit other town and city . settle the pay dispute that be pervade our railway have already pay for itself . what lesson have the Secretary of State draw from rail network in other country about rail performance and safety , give that many of they be now automated ? will she make herself a heroine in the south - west by deal at long last with the notorious Tisbury loop , west of Salisbury , which have add inestimable time to rail journey to the far south - west ? the situation could be resolve at very little cost . I will look into the issue for the right hon . Gentleman . it may be that the Rail Minister have to make himself a hero ; I will ask he to meet the right hon . Gentleman to discuss the matter . they say that money doesn ' t grow on tree , but apparently it fly out the window for £ 100 million bat cave . do my right hon . friend agree that HS2 should apologise for its fur - brain scheme ? how can we quickly learn the lesson to ensure good taxpayer value for money as HS2 continue ? I be absolutely horrified , on enter the Department , to learn that there have be no routine ministerial oversight , in any sense of the word , of hs2 for some time . we immediately establish a cross - ministerial taskforce , comprise I and the Treasury , to oversee HS2 ' s cost . I have write to the chair to make it clear that , beyond safety , his first and abide priority be to bring down cost . I have commission a governance review , lead by James Stewart . we will look at the structure of HS2 Ltd , which have be too much at arm ' s length , and too free to spend taxpayer ' money for too long . GWR , which serve my Bath constituency , have be perform in the most disappointing way , to say the least . especially on Sundays , cancellation and delay be the new norm . engineering work be among the problem , but the train driver shortage be the big problem . what exactly will resolve what the Secretary of State call the rest day working issue mean for my constituent ? when do she expect they to see tangible change ? the problem across the entire railway be that we do not have sufficient driver or staff , so too many part of the railway be reliant on rest day work agreement . we should not have to rely on people volunteer to come on shift in order to run a Sunday service , but unfortunately that be the case at Great Western Railway . we will not be harmonise contract or term and condition at great British Railways , as we have establish , but we need to get driver and conductor on modern term and condition that reflect the railway that we need . we be attempt to address the specific issue at Great Western Railway ; as I say , we will come back to the House soon with an update on progress . at a recent meeting with I to discuss rail improvement for my constituent , the chief executive of Southeastern — a nationalise company , as have be confirm — be able to confirm that additional service between Dartford and central London be due to commence in December , as the Secretary of State mention . can she outline any additional welcome improvement to service in the south - east , or other part of the country , to which we can look forward ? we will see 44 additional train per day on the new timetable from Southeastern . CrossCountry restore its full timetable today , and we hope to see new timetable from TransPennine Express in the come week . we have procurement out for TransPennine Express and Southeastern , I believe , so my hon . friend will see new rolling stock in due course . People can only go so far out of London into the Spelthorne constituency on their Oyster card ; they have to buy a train ticket for the last couple of stop . this anomalous situation mean that major employer such as BP and Shepperton Studios send bus up the line to pick up their worker to do a day ' s work . the Secretary of State will soon be the proud owner of South Western Railway , Transport for London and great British Railways , so can she please make herself an absolute hero in Spelthorne and get it into the Oyster zone ? the Mayor of London be the owner of Transport for London , but we can absolutely work together to see whether anything of that nature can be achieve . I see no reason why we can not make progress on that issue . commuter at Arlesey and Hitchin station in my constituency be drive to despair by the shocking state of Thameslink service , with delay and cancellation an all too frequent feature of everyday commute . I welcome the urgency with which the Secretary of State be start to tackle the long - term cause , from industrial dispute to fragmentation . in the interim , will she meet I to discuss how we can push Thameslink to do more to make sure we finally make these delay and cancellation a thing of the past ? I be grateful for those comment . Govia Thameslink have an improvement of 3 % in its cancellation on last year , but it be still fall behind on punctuality . [ Official Report , 25 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 8WC . ] ( Correction ) I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss what more we can do . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s update on how the UK Government be follow in the Scottish Government ' s footstep by nationalise train operating company , but Labour can not claim to be nationalise the railway while leave the train in private hand . even with the passage of her Bill , profit will continue to flow out of our railway to roll stock company , some base in tax haven , rather than be reinveste in service and infrastructure , and consequently in performance . will the Secretary of State set out when she plan to bring forward proposal to nationalise the rolling stock company and bring the railway back into public hand in their entirety ? one of the purpose of this reform be to save the taxpayer money , and bring operator into public ownership as their contract expire mean there will be no compensation . we will also be save the money currently leak out of the system through dividend and management fee . it would not be fiscally prudent in the current environment to spend billion of pound on nationalise the roll stock , so we will continue the current arrangement whereby private finance be leveraged into roll stock company . my constituent be reliant on a train line between Reading and Waterloo that have see no improvement to frequency or journey time since the 1970 , so they will warmly welcome the step the Secretary of State have outline today to launch a consultation set out plan for unification across the railway . do she agree that a modern railway system be an essential step in get our economy grow ? I absolutely agree . for too long , passenger have not be able to rely on the railway , and it have drive people off they . we see in the late Transport Focus datum that people be gradually start to feel more confident in use the railway , but we have a long way to go to turn the tide on the last 14 year of failure . improved rail performance be of course welcome , but my constituent in Somerton and Langport be not serve by the railway at all . a family in Curry Rivel recently write to I ; they be over half an hour away from the near train station , leave they isolated from the train line . will the Minister outline any plan she have to connect my constituent in rural area to the railway ? we will be set out a long - term infrastructure strategy in spring next year , work with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and colleague across Government to ensure that we be unlock the transport infrastructure that will be of benefit and allow we to meet our housing target but also improve rural connectivity . my Department be also reform how we do appraisal to ensure we maximise our investment in transport infrastructure for economic growth and to tackle socioeconomic inequality . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s decisive action to end industrial action , get the railway move again and unlock the barrier to economic growth that we absolutely need to sweep away to get this country grow again . it be particularly welcome to hear about the green shoot of recovery and the improvement in LNER ' s performance . however , passenger at Morley train station tell I that the service be still unreliable , so can the Secretary of State update the House on what she will do to improve the reliability of the train service run through Leeds South West and Morley and the rest of the UK ? LNER ' s reliability have improve in the past year , but I be not naive and do not think we be there yet ; these be only the green shoot of recovery . the real improvement from these reform will come when we can truly integrate track and train . LNER and the east coast be a perfect example of where the previous system be fail . billion of pound be spend on upgrade the east coast main line , but with absolutely no improvement for passenger . by integrate track and train , we can ensure that those upgrade to the east coast main line be fully realise for passenger and that the timetable and service from LNER be improve . my constituent have to rely on two of the most unreliable train operating company : northern and TransPennine Express . too many of they be have to drive to get to work on time or get a taxi to get back in time for after - school club . when do the Secretary of State think my constituent will have the confidence to go back to use the train , rather than rely on an app on their phone ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . northern and TransPennine Express serve my constituency as well , and some of the most deprived part of the north of England . performance have not be good enough . TransPennine in particular have see insignificant improvement since it be bring into public ownership , but neither operator be where it need to be . we be work closely with they as a priority through the operator of last resort , not only to drive efficiency , but crucially to drive performance . I be strike when I meet Network Rail and some of the manage director of the worst - perform operating company that they make it clear that the previous level of performance have simply be tolerate and accept as normal across the industry . they be under no doubt that under this government , that level of performance will no long be tolerate . my constituent in Calder Valley be also sick of the performance of Northern Rail . in July , the Department for Transport issue a breach of notice to Northern Rail , because of its underperformance . Northern Rail ' s chief operating officer say that performance be " not good enough " . will my right hon . friend confirm that she will prioritise get Northern Rail back on track ? we can hear from the House how much of an impact the level of service on Northern Rail be have . Andy Burnham text I every Monday about the performance on northern train , so I can assure my hon . friend that it be a priority . early this year , Avanti West Coast service on the north Wales main line have on - the - day cancellation of more than 20 % . its timetable be yet to return to pre - covid standard , and there be no direct connection with London on Saturday . give that the Avanti West Coast contract run to 2026 , what be the Secretary of State do to ensure a reliable mainline service for the people of north Wales ? my view on Avanti ' s performance be well know , I think . the right hon . Lady be absolutely right that it have not be acceptable . shockingly , the way that national rail contract be write under the previous Government mean that Avanti have not default . it be on a remedial plan to drive improvement , and we have see a small increase in punctuality , but it still have a long way to go . we be watch over Avanti like a hawk to make sure that if it do default , it can be immediately bring into public ownership . I extend my thank to the Secretary of State and the team for the early action they have take to improve the reliability of the network . my constituent struggle with two line . one be the cumbrian coast line , on which I ask the Secretary of State for any update on the ongoing conductor ' dispute . that be add to a lack of reliability in the system for those in Whitehaven and Workington and elsewhere . I spend too much time — far too much time — on Avanti West Coast service , which give I the opportunity to speak to constituent who can not use the wi - fi , because it be highly unreliable . it be a big issue for productivity , so will the Secretary of State raise that with Avanti when she meet its representative ? Wi - fi be one of the example of passenger experience that we be clear need to be deliver through great British Railways . I take East midland Railway , and the wi - fi be even bad on that line . I would be happy to raise that issue with Avanti . we be in the process of attempt to facilitate an agreement with Northern on the conductor issue that my hon . friend mention in the north - west , which have the most egregious example of work term and condition be outside of a normal working week . I join the chorus of those talk about GWR ' s shocking Sunday service . its timetable be a work of fiction akin to " Chuggington " , which I often watch with my daughter . be that the only problem that my constituent face , we might be able to look past it . however , the lack of carriage on train home on a weekday be a huge problem — my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) recently use some choice language about it , which I urge hon . member to look up online ; I will not report it in the House . we often find that there be only half the carriage that we need to get home . I recently stand by the loo for 90 minute until Stroud , which be an unpleasant experience share by many other on the train . what will the Secretary of State do to reassure I that GBR will solve that problem ? again , the current fragmentation of the network mean that we have dozen of different type of roll stock across the network , all procure by different operator at different time , which be not interoperable between operator and can not be move around the network precisely when there be issue such as those that the hon . Gentleman describe . with the establishment of great British Railways and a long - term roll stock strategy , we can procure few type of train and start to move they around . I will take away the specific issue of short - form train on great Western Railway and write to he about what action can be take . rise — Richard Quigley , can you confirm that you be here at the beginning of the Secretary of State ' s statement ? no , I be not . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , and particularly the sentiment about put passenger first and get a grip . those who be serve by Great Western , which run to south Wales as well as down the main line to Penzance in my constituency — great Western have already be heavily criticise this afternoon — will be aware that we be get none of the benefit of HS2 but a lot of the disruption as a result of the work at Old Oak Common . will the Secretary of State meet those Members of Parliament who be worried about the prospect of six year of sometimes severe disruption to their service to see whether we can minimise the impact ? I be conscious of the disruption that will be experience by passenger come from the south - west . we be put in place plan so that train can come into Euston rather than Paddington , but it be undeniable that there will be substantial disruption during the Old Oak Common work . I or the Rail Minister will be happy to meet colleague who be affect . I call Richard Quigley — honesty go a long way . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I truly be grateful . I be go to say that my train be late , but that would not actually be true . [ laughter . ] speak of my right hon . friend be a heroine , find a solution to the Isle of Wight ferry issue would result in our erect a bronze statue on the seafront in Cowes . do she agree that the Conservatives ' fail experiment with rail privatisation have cause passenger misery and cost million ? what will she do to make thing well ? I be grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow my hon . friend to ask a question . I think he would mention the ferry as well — he also text I often about the ferry . I be grateful for his point . the new model will deliver not only well service for passenger but a far well settlement for taxpayer , who have be rip off under the previous model for far too long . I thank the Secretary of State very much for her statement . she have be clear that transparency for passenger will be achieve by display performance datum . how do the Government intend to ensure that , as well as know whether their local line be not do well , passenger know that their taxis be be use not simply to pay rail staff high wage , but to get train to reach their destination in a time - effective and cost - effective way ? the purpose of display performance datum at station be to give passenger certainty and transparency about the state of the railway , but great British Railways will also be far more accountable than under the current system . at the moment , to hold the railway to account , there be a complicated mix of responsibility between Network Rail , the train operate company and the Department for Transport . great British Railways will provide a single point of access to the railway for politician and for community , and we will be able to ensure that the organisation be single - mindedly deliver for passenger . Rural Affairs I beg to move , that this House have consider rural affair . I be delighted that the House have this opportunity to discuss the impact of the Budget on rural community . let I begin by address what the Budget mean for farm in the round . we can all agree that food security be national security , which be why we have secure the big budget in our country ' s history for sustainable food production and nature ' s recovery . it commit £ 5 billion to the agricultural budget over the next two year . we be continue all the environmental land management scheme , and invest £ 1 . 8 billion into they from 2025 - 26 , which give farmer the stability they need and lay the foundation for sustainable food production , to protect farmer and the environment for year to come . what estimate have the right hon . Gentleman make of the impact on capital investment , which will be reduce as farmer consider the inheritance tax implication of those investment and adjust their plan accordingly ? the change have be sign off by the Office for Budget Responsibility and the full impact assessment will be available when the Finance Bill be publish , before they come into force in 2026 . do the Secretary of State understand that a farmer come towards the end of his career be hardly likely to invest either in improve his land or in the hundred of thousand of pound that a piece of agricultural plant cost these day , know that there will be a surcharge when , sadly , he decease ? the vast majority of farmer will be unaffected by the change , so that point will not apply . we be also rapidly release £ 60 million to support farmer whose farm have be devastate by severe flooding . that be £ 10 million more than the previous Government be offer and , unlike their fantasy figure , we have show where the money to be pay out will come from . flooding be just one of the many challenge that farmer have face over the past year . rise — perhaps the hon . Gentleman want to allude to another of they . the Secretary of State have paint the most rosy picture . why do he think that no one in the farming community can see it or share it ? I have not have time to paint much of a rosy picture yet , because I have only just start and I be take quite a lot of intervention , but I hope I can allay the concern of some farmer in the comment that I hope to make during my speech . rise — I will take one more intervention and then make some progress . the right hon . Gentleman refer to the amount of money be make available for flooding . the devastation cause by flood pale into insignificance compare with the damage that will be do by inheritance tax . this weekend a farmer in my constituency have cancel the building of a new barn because of it . Park home owner in my area be in despair as a result of what the Budget be do to they . do the right hon . Gentleman not understand that ? the vast majority of farmer will not be affect by the change to inheritance tax , and I implore the right hon . Gentleman not to underplay the damage cause by flooding . many farm be absolutely devastate last year , and it will be immensely welcome that we have release £ 60 million to help farmer to deal with that problem , as well as set up a flood resilience taskforce to ensure far well co - ordination between the centre and the agency on the ground , to protect farmer from the devastation of flooding in year to come . rise — I say that I have take my last intervention , but since it be the hon . Gentleman I be happy to give way . I have be inundate with message from farmer back home . I be a member of the Ulster Farmers ' Union , so I understand the issue clearly . the National Farmers Union here on the mainland have the same point of view . every one of my neighbour will be impact , and the Ulster Farmers ' Union estimate that almost every farmer in Northern Ireland will be impact by the inheritance tax change . be the Secretary of State prepare to meet Ulster Farmers ' Union representative to discuss this matter and understand much well — I say that respectfully — the issue of inheritance tax and what it mean to family farm in Northern Ireland ? it will destroy they . it be very important that we all listen to farmer and farmer ’ representative . either I , or one of my ministerial colleague , will make sure that we meet the representative the hon . gentleman mention . I hope that I can allay some of those concern if I be able to continue my speech , in which I will directly address the issue to which he refer . as I be say , flooding be just one of the many challenge that farmer have face over the last past year . in recent week I have meet farmer who have be hit by bluetongue in their herd , and I be sorry to say that we have the first record case of avian influenza this autumn . biosecurity threat be real and their impact even more so , which be why we be invest over £ 200 million to protect the nation from potential disease outbreak , include by fix the defence at our world - lead Weybridge facility that the Conservatives leave to fall into disrepair . I commend the Secretary of State ' s broad approach . in my constituency there be a serious issue with precious flood plain be speculatively buy by developer , which be cause a huge amount of concern to local resident . it be also an issue in term of the potential threat to wildlife habitat and of the impact on flooding . will the Secretary of State consider meet I and local resident to discuss this important matter ? my hon . friend be a great champion for his community . I be of course more than happy to meet he and people from his community to discuss those important issue . the measure in the Budget will enable we to build a strong , more sustainable future for british agriculture and put in place our new deal for farmer , which include make the supply chain fairer so that producer be no long force to sell their food below the price of production ; speed up planning decision to help farmer to diversify into new form of income ; seek a new veterinary agreement — will the Secretary of State give way ? if the hon . Lady will forgive I , I want to make a little progress . the new deal for farmer include seek a new veterinary agreement with the EU to tear down the export barrier that the previous Government erect in the first place ; back british produce by use the Government ' s purchase power to buy british ; and protect our farmer from ever again be undercut by low welfare and low standard in trade deal like the disastrous one the previous Government sign with Australia and New Zealand . the House be aware that the Government inherit a catastrophic £ 22 billion black hole in the nation ' s finance , mean we have have to take tough decision on tax , welfare and spending to protect the payslip of work people . this have require reform to agricultural property relief . I recognise that many farmer be feel anxious about the change ; I urge they not to believe every alarming claim or headline and I reassure they that the Government be listen to they . we be committed to ensure the future of family farm . the vast majority of farmer will not be affect at all by the change . let we look at the detail . will the Secretary of State give way ? if the hon . Gentleman will give I a little time , it be important that I make these point . currently , 73 % of agricultural property relief claim be less than £ 1 million . an individual farm owner can pass on up to £ 1 . 5 million and a couple can pass on up to £ 3 million between they to a direct descendant , free of inheritance tax . if a couple who own a farm want to pass it on to a young relative and one partner predecease the other , each of they have a £ 1 million APR threshold that they can pass on . add those together and that be £ 2 million , plus the £ 1 million that a couple with a property can pass on to their child . for most people , that be an effective threshold of up to £ 3 million to pass on without incur inheritance tax . any liability beyond that will be charge at only half the standard inheritance tax rate and payment can be phase over 10 year to make it more affordable . farmer will be able to pass down their family farm to future generation , just as they always have do . will the Secretary of State tell we where he obtain those figure ? they be from the Treasury and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . under the previous system , 40 % of the value of agricultural property relief go to just 7 % of claimant . that be not fair and it be not sustainable . our reform will put a stop to wealthy individual buy up agricultural land to avoid inheritance tax and , in the process of do that , price young farmer out of buy land for themselves and for their family . as a Farmers Weekly correspondent point out , " price have be artificially inflate by non - agricultural buyer purchase land for inheritance tax purpose " , thereby make it hard for young farmer to set up a family farm . that be correct . the reform will protect family farm by close the loophole , but they will also help to provide funding for the public service on which family in rural and farming community rely just as much as anyone else . when Opposition member say that they would go back to the unfair old system , they also need to tell we which part of the new NHS investment they would cut to pay for it . like everyone else , farmer and rural community need a well nhs , affordable housing , good local school and reliable public transport . the last government ' s economic failure leave Britain with a flatline economy , break public service and the bad decade for wage growth since the great depression of the 1930 . poor public transport mean that people could not get to work , the GP or the hospital when they need to . home ownership be out of reach for too many in rural area . too few new home be build , and even few that be genuinely affordable . Digital connectivity in rural area lag behind connectivity in urban area . we have to kick - start the economy to build the public service that rural community need , and to help with that we have secure the big budget for sustainable farming and nature in our country ' s history . it will help to change farming practice so that we can clean up our river , lake and sea , which the last Government leave in such a filthy , polluted state . the Secretary of State mention the new set - up for the funding of agriculture and fishery across the UK . he may be aware of the concern express by the Farmers ' Union of Wales , which fear that process the extra fund through the Barnett formula — as oppose to the previous arrangement , which be a ringfenced addition for the devolved government — might bring about a severe reduction in agricultural funding in Wales . will the Secretary of State please give some reassurance that that be not the case ? as I have say , the consequential will work in the way in which they always work . devolve administration have some discretion as to how they will spend the money that be make available to they , but of course I , along with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , be more than happy to engage with , for instance , the Northern Ireland Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs to discuss those point . the huge investment we have secure in the sustainable farming budget will also help we to move to a zero - waste economy , as we end the throwaway society and reuse material rather than send they to landfill . will the Secretary of State give way ? no . the hon . Gentleman have already have his chance to ask a question . the investment will help we to boost food production as we move to model of farming that be not only more environmentally sustainable but more financially sustainable , and it will help nature to recover — here , in what have become one of the most nature - deplete country on earth , with nearly half our bird specie and a quarter of our mammal specie now at risk of extinction . our plan to upgrade our crumble water infrastructure will help to bring in ten of billion of pound of private investment , and will create ten of thousand of well - pay job in rural community throughout the country . we will reform the planning system to build the affordable home that our rural community so desperately need , while also protect our green space and precious natural environment . we be invest £ 2 . 4 billion over the next two year in the flood defence that the last Government leave in such an unacceptable state of decay and disrepair . I be extremely grateful to the Secretary of State for give way on the issue of flooding . anyone would welcome more money , which be desperately need , but will he comment on the flooding formula ? many inland community flood , but the Environment Agency continue to say that there be nothing it can do , because the flooding formula say it be not worth do anything . frequent flooding of small community matter , too . be the Department look at that ? we be look at that , and we will be able to make proposal in due course . I know that the hon . Lady will be interested in take part in a conversation about they when we do . I be talk about the change we be make more widely for rural community . we will open new specialist college and reform the apprenticeship levy to help agricultural business and farm to upskill their workforce , and we will recruit 8 , 500 more mental health professional across the NHS , with a mental health hub in every community to tackle the scourge of mental ill health in our farming and rural community . I welcome what the right hon . Gentleman be say about mental health , but may I take he back to what he say about the Environment Agency ? there be concern about the arbitration over whether Natural England or the Environment Agency have authority . South of Salisbury , in the Avon valley , there be a massive issue . the Environment Agency have do a great deal of work , but there be always a concern that Natural England will come in and overrule it . the arbitration over who be sovereign in such circumstance be a massive issue across the country , and I would be grateful if he could turn his attention to it . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise that point . I have appoint Dan Corry to lead a review of regulation across the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , precisely so that we can iron out such anomaly . I be keen to ensure that we crack down on antisocial behaviour , fly - tipping and gps theft through the first ever cross - Government rural crime strategy , and we will improve public transport by allow authority to take back control of their bus to meet the need of their community . the Secretary of State mention rural crime , and I do not underestimate the scale of the challenge . in the last Parliament , with Labour ' s support , my private Member ' s Bill get Royal Assent . it just need a statutory instrument to be lay before the House to bring in the definition of " forensic marking " , which the police say will be a big power for they in combat rural crime . will he talk to the Home Secretary to ensure that my Act start to help he to deliver his rural crime strategy ? I will convey the hon . Gentleman ' s view to my right hon . friend the Home Secretary . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? if the right hon . Lady will forgive I , I will conclude my speech , because I have take an awful lot of time and Members will want to have their say . rural community be at the heart of this Government ' s no . 1 mission : to grow the economy . everyone , regardless of where they grow up , should have the same opportunity to succeed in life . we have have to take tough decision to fix the broken foundation of our economy , but they be part of a Budget that will restore economic stability and begin a decade of national renewal for everyone , everywhere . I welcome this opportunity to set out the fact and figure , and to show why this Budget offer a well future for our rural and farming community , as we fix the foundation and rebuild Britain . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for hold this important debate , and for welcome I to my new role . from the arable field outside my front door to the cattle and horticulture that stretch from the fen , the wold and the marsh to the coast , my constituency feed the country . I be delighted and determine to bring some of my county ' s common sense and love of the countryside to this important portfolio . on Armistice Day , I pay tribute to the fallen , and particularly to the farmer who stay behind to feed the nation in war go by . this be a critical time for our rural way of life . after year of unforgive weather , rise commodity price and more crop and livestock disease , our farmer now face a new threat : a city - dwelling , socialist Government who do not understand or care for the rural way of life . the evidence be there in Labour ' s first Budget , for which it have 14 year to prepare . [ interruption . ] the Back Bencher who be wave his arm around may want to listen to this . in this Budget of broken promise , the Chancellor lay careful plan to break the farming sector , the wide rural economy and our food security . farmer look after 70 % of the UK ' s land . they be the keystone of our rural community . when they struggle , our rural economy be weaken and our food security be put at risk . today , as the consequence of this Budget be become clear , I will focus solely on the rural economy , but I make this promise to the Secretary of State : in the future , I will be press he and his government on rural infrastructure , flooding , crime , healthcare , broadband and mobile signal , the solar and wind industry and other matter that affect our countryside , because the impact of this Budget and the choice Labour have make will be feel for year after his expensive wellie have wear out . I be go to focus on three broken promise by Labour ; I be go to make it simple for they . the first break promise for farming family be the removal of the tax relief that have mean family can pass on their farm to the next generation : agricultural property relief and business property relief . these be not loophole , as they be describe by the city - dwell Chancellor , but careful tax policy planning develop over many year to prevent family farm and business from be split up and sell off . of course we support effort to root out abuse of the tax system , but the way in which the Chancellor have design this policy mean that it be tenant farmer and farmer in the middle who will struggle , not the very wealthy . this morning , I ask farmer on social medium to send I detail of how the policy will affect they and their business , and it make for anguished reading . farmer be furious , anxious and even distressed about the change . they feel that the Government be come after they and their family ' livelihood , when all that they and their ancestor have do be work hard , follow the rule and feed we . I have be inundate with message about tenant farmer , whom the Government seem to have forget . a Welsh landowner have contact I to say that this change in policy will mean that he must tell six multigenerational farming family on his land that he will have to sell their farm to pay labour ' s family farm tax . as he put it , " they will lose their home , business and their child ' s future " . in wind up the debate , can the Minister please explain what those six tenant family be to do when their farm be sell ? an example of how the measure will affect landowne family be provide by a family who have work their 500 - acre farm for four generation . the farm be own by the mother , who be in her 70 , and her two son , who be in their late 40 and early 50 , their father have die a few year ago . they make an annual income of around £ 45 , 000 . when the mother die , the son will face an inheritance tax bill of at least £ 870 , 000 . there be no way in which they can pay that bill without sell their farm . could the Minister advise the House how that family be to pay labour ' s tax bill without sell their farm ? the right hon . Lady have obviously have lot of letter and email . have she have a single one from any farmer who think this be a good idea ? I have not have any from my constituency of Boston and Skegness . we have — plenty ! you couldn ' t make it up , could you ? this be what be so worrying . this be why , at the beginning , I talk about a Labour Government who do not understand and do not care , and it be exactly this attitude from the Government Front Bench that farmer and their family be see . in answer to the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , I say as a former Treasury Minister that if there be evidence of abuse , of course the Treasury and the Chancellor must go after that , but give the way the Government have design this policy , it be go to go after the hard - work family that look after our farm in our great county . my right hon . friend and I have be Treasury colleague . official often put forward this reform in the run - up to fiscal event , and she , like I , have resist they . will she reflect on the fact that significant landowner will have sophisticated tax planning regime in place , that a large number of very small hobby farmer will be exclude , and that those who will be hit be modest family farmer ? even when those family farmer need to raise a relatively modest amount over 10 year , the impact of secure that funding be beyond they , give the margin they get from farming . will my right hon . friend reflect on the fact that this be , without doubt , a Treasury hit - and - run ? the Secretary of State flatter himself to think he have secure the overall budget , but he have leave farmer in a far bad state . [ interruption . ] my right hon . friend make an important point about our experience as Treasury Ministers . labour Back Benchers be shout " give way ! " because they do not like hear the truth . they make this choice ; we choose not to go down this route . there be many way in which we can support our family farmer , and I have have the pleasure of have a cup of tea with many of they around their kitchen table after they have show I their farm . Labour Front Benchers lack such experience , because their constituency be all situate in the city . will my right hon . friend give way ? I promise that I will give way in a moment . as the hon . member for Boston and Skegness and my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) have both say , the sense of betrayal be palpable . as a fifth - generation farmer put it to I this morning , " would you want to work somewhere that you know over your lifetime be go to be take away bit by bit ? " another have urge we to " fight this vindictive , illogical and ideologically drive tax " . just before I begin my speech , in response to the Secretary of State ' s speech , I receive this message from another farmer : " so long as mum die before March 2026 , we ' re okay " . yet the farming Minister and the Secretary of State seem to think that these worry be exaggerated . indeed , the farming Minister get a ripe old reaction when he say word to that effect at today ' s poultry conference . when we warn in June that a Labour Government would do this , the Secretary of State say that such warning be " desperate nonsense " and accuse we of lie . this follow the assurance he give in December that Labour would not change this policy . so that be a broken promise . he be do the exact opposite of what he say . how can rural community trust he in the future ? the Secretary of State have give some helpful advice to farmer , however . he have tell they that they will have to " learn to do more with less " . labour have not say the same to train driver , resident doctor or their other union friend . indeed , pensioner and family business will be the one pay for these public sector pay rise . will the right hon . Lady join I in ask the Secretary of State , who do not allow I to intervene , whether the confirmation that agricultural funding for Wales be to be barnettise mean that the allocation will drop from 9 . 4 % to 5 . 6 % ? accord to the Farmers Union of Wales , that be a drop of £ 146 million and more . this will also affect Scotland and Northern Ireland , so we need clarity on this issue for Welsh farmer . I completely agree with right hon . Lady . if the Secretary of State would like to intervene on I , he can answer her intervention . answer come there none . my right hon . friend be a very clever former Treasury Minister and I be not , so perhaps she can help I to reconcile these two statement . in essence , and in true Harold Macmillan phraseology , the Secretary of State tell we that farmer have never have it so good , yet his advice be that they will have to learn how to do more with less . I can not make those two thing add up . can my right hon . friend ? no . what be more , the NFU , the Tenant Farmers Association and the Country Land and Business Association can not make they add up either . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will give way once more , and then I must make some progress . the Secretary of State talk about the fact that the price of agricultural land be artificially high because of tax avoider try to avoid pay inheritance tax . the implication of the propose measure would be that the price of agricultural land will fall . that may sound attractive to people who be try to come into the market , but have my right hon . friend consider the number of farmer who have mortgage against their land ? they could find themselves in negative equity as a result of the pushing down of the price of agricultural land . very much so , and I thank my hon . friend the Members for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) and for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) for their accurate and insightful intervention . not only do some farmer have mortgage , but we know tenant farmer worry that their farm will be sell off , so that the landowner can enter into what some call a " greenwashe " agreement with corporate , in order to plant tree and gain access to green fund . one should not make the mistake of assume that this ill - thought - through policy will lead to cheap land price : the math on that be almost as bad as the Chancellor ' s cockeye account with her economic inheritance . let I tackle the ideology of this policy , reiterate by the Secretary of State during this debate , which be match by labour ' s incompetence . first , the Chancellor herself do not seem to know the threshold at which her policy kick in and whether spouse can transfer their allowance . indeed , the Secretary of State do not seem to know that either . the Chancellor have say that the allowance can be transfer , yet Treasury document support her Budget say that they can not . in his wind - up speech , will the Minister clarify whether the Treasury ' s document be wrong or the Chancellor be wrong ? secondly , will the Minister explain why this Government have target only British - own farm and business with this tax hike ? company operate here but own overseas , private equity - own business and public company list on stock market will not have to pay labour ' s tax ; it be just british family . thirdly , the Chancellor — and , indeed , just now , the Secretary of State — give assurance that only a quarter of farm will be affect , but that be not back up by the datum from the Secretary of State ' s own Department . defra figure show that , in fact , these change will affect two third of farm — some 66 % . will the Minister explain that discrepancy and what he have do personally to confirm those figure , so that he ensure he give only accurate information to the House ? rise — another point we need to consider be the impact on food security if farmer decide to hand back their farm or have their farm break up , as my right hon . friend suggest . do she have any thought or have she see any evidence about the possible impact on food security ? I have not see any such evidence , which be a concern in itself . it most certainly be a concern , and I thank my hon . friend for raise that . he represent a very rural constituency and know only too well the concern his constituent be face . it be a good point , which I will develop later in my speech . on that point , will my right hon . friend give way ? I will give way to my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , and then I will make some progress . my right hon . friend be very kind , and she be make a masterly exposition of how to deconstruct this case . do she notice , exactly a week ago , when we have an urgent question on the subject , the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs be ask how food security could be value if the result of the Budget measure would be that farmland would be split up and sell off , probably for development . his answer say , in part : " of course there be trade - off . there be a range of pressure on our land , in respect of housing , food , energy and so many other thing . " — [ Official Report , 4 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c . 37 . ] so he seem to be accept that land will be sell off and it will be build upon . of course , the Government ' s permission for solar and wind industrial unit on prime agricultural land will only add to those pressure as well . rise — I will make some progress . the immediate impact of the change , as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) say in his intervention on the Secretary of State , be that farmer be already stop capital investment in machinery , system and building for fear that any improvement to their farm will send they over the cliff edge into this tax trap . so for a government that claim to want to grow the economy , their choice be achieve the exact opposite . this family farm tax be a broken promise that will break family farm . I move now to the second broken promise : the accelerated reduction in delinked payment . from next year , those vital payment will be substantially less than farm be promise . they can not have foresee that when they make their business plan . a tenant farmer have tell I that he do not know how he be go to pay his rent next year , because the drop be worth more than £ 20 , 000 . can the Minister explain how this farmer should do more with less ? the third break promise be the hike in national insurance for employer , of course . as the OBR have say , an increase in employer NICS will be pass " entirely " on to work people . I know that Labour do not actually know who it mean by " work people " but the Conservatives be clear that it definitely include farmer , their staff and the small business that support they , day in , day out . the shadow Secretary of State say that she oppose the change . will she commit to reverse they , and which public service would she cut — for example , which nhs service ? the hon . Lady be new to her place . as Financial Secretary to the Treasury I use to collect taxis for the United Kingdom and as the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care I use to spend pretty much all of they , so I know that the £ 500 million that the Government have score - card this increase as achieve by the end of the score - card period will buy a fraction of what the NHS need on a daily basis , let alone annually . if you believe the Whips ' handout , the difficulty be that they sometimes get you into trouble . for that matter , the phrase " work people " also include our rural publican . Labour Members be very proud of their Chancellor take a penny off a pint . yet any rural publican will tell you that will not even touch the side alongside the NICs tax hike . sadly , Labour ' s job tax will see high price , few staff and more pub closure . the job tax be also hurt our frontline service . gp surgery , care home , hospice , pharmacy and dental practice will all see their cost rise , and some will close . that hurt in a city centre , but it be devastating in community who live with the impact of rural sparsity , where it be more expensive to deliver service . I appreciate that the right hon . Lady have reference the NHS . I get lot of letter , email and message from farmer who have be completely let down by the state of the NHS as it be leave by she as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . give that she have a new role , have she have any time to reflect on where she go wrong ? I know the hon . Gentleman ' s part of the world very well and I be sure — I can sense that he will be a conscientious local MP , mindful of his small majority — that he will badger the Health Secretary and ask he why he have not deliver the Conservatives ' dental recovery plan , which this autumn would have see dental van in rural and coastal area , because as the Secretary of State I want to ensure that those area have dentistry service , and golden hello for new dentist set up in rural and coastal area . we be also introduce additional dental training place . we can all see the need in our rural area , but the job tax and the family farm tax be not the answer . this Government love raise taxis , so they be also raise taxis on fertiliser , on double - cab pickup and on business asset disposal relief , while risk food security by permit solar and wind industrial plant to be build on prime agricultural land . the great shame be that none of this be necessary . this Chancellor ' s cockeyed accounting be not believe by farmer , the public or even the OBR . in government , we provide the large ever programme of grant to farmer and bring the farming budget to its high ever level . we provide more than £ 5 billion for flood protection , and establish a new national rural crime unit . but we also understand that farmer and rural community need dynamic support , and that be why we commit to raise the farming budget by £ 1 billion over this Parliament — a move this Labour Government have fail to replicate . their freeze in the farming budget with no guarantee of a forthcoming increase mean they have choose to offer farmer and rural community a real - term cut . that all add up to a direct risk to food security , because if our farmer do not thrive , domestic food production suffer , and that mean more import and high price . this be the " don ' t bother " Budget from the " don ' t care " Government . this be the Labour Government ' s choice and they should own it . they have turn their back on rural community and we will not forget . we will not forget that this Government be happy to plough straight over anyone who be not a trade unionist . we will not forget the huge bill put by this Chancellor on to work people , pensioner , farmer , pub landlord , business owner , and student . I repeat the pledge by the Leader of the Opposition — the Conservatives will reverse the cruel family farm tax . to all farmer , farming family and rural community out there , I say that we conservative stand with you , we have your back and we will work night and day to hold this useless Labour Government to account . I call Josh Newbury to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to make my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for Cannock Chase , my home . have listen to many maiden speech from all part of the House , I have to say that I be honour to be part of an incredibly talented intake — not that I be at all biased . I also have the privilege of follow some outstanding predecessor who be fondly remember by my constituent . the well know be the late , great Jennie Lee , who represent the former Cannock constituency for 25 year and also serve as Minister for the Arts , play a key role in the foundation of the Open University . Jennie be recently cite by the Chancellor as one of her political hero and a contender to replace Nigel Lawson ' s portrait in her office . alongside her husband , the equally incomparable Aneurin Bevan , Jennie be commemorate across the constituency , include Jennie Lee Way in Rugeley and the Bevan Lee estate in Cannock . I could not speak about past member for Cannock Chase without pay tribute to my labour predecessor , Dr Tony Wright , who serve as MP for Cannock and Burntwood and later Cannock Chase from 1992 until 2010 . Tony be the epitome of a dedicated constituency MP . constituent regularly speak warmly of Tony and he win vote from across the political spectrum . if I can be half the MP Tony be , I will be able to look back on my time in this House with pride . I would also like to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Dame Amanda Milling , who serve our constituency for nine year . Amanda be praise by both supporter and detractor alike for her efficient approach to casework , which I know would be the envy of many mps ' office . Amanda serve as a Government Whip for many year — not an easy job — and as Minister for Asia and the Middle East . I understand that Amanda also chair the group of female conservative mp and be a passionate advocate of programme that encourage woman to stand for election . I may not have often agree with Amanda politically , but I have always find she to be fair - minded , kind and decent , so I genuinely wish she all the good for the future . when people hear the word " Cannock Chase " , they naturally think of the stunning forest that be the constituency ' s namesake . while make their first speech , many new member have claim their constituency as the most beautiful in the land . however , I have to point out that my constituency be the only one in England that share its name with an area of outstanding natural beauty — fact be fact ! but the Chase be not just a place with serene walk and herd of fallow deer , although we have plenty of both . it be also a place of industry , sport and recreation . the Chase be still a work forest , manage by Forestry England , which produce around 19 , 000 tonne of sustainable timber every year . the Chase be arguably most famous as a national destination for mountain biker . as someone who could barely stay upright on fresh tarmac , the conversation I have have about mountain biking have probably be the steep learning curve I have be on since the general election . but I look forward to work with biker and Forestry England to build on the legacy of the 2022 Commonwealth game and make sure that unauthorised trail do not spoil the natural beauty of the forest . the Chase be a vibrant place with a huge range of activity , include the high rope and free fall of Go Ape at Birches valley . I place on record an open invitation to the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , who , four month on from the general election campaign , must be suffer from zipline withdrawal . the iron - age hill fort of Castle Ring and the Chase ' s former status as a royal hunting forest attest to its rich 12 , 000 - year history . more recently , soldier be train on the Chase , include J . r . r . Tolkien , who be station there in 1916 , and who may have draw from it inspiration for the great forest in his legendary book . however , as my constituent would be keen to remind we all , there be much more to Cannock Chase than our forest . our tight - knit community be home to organisation that we be immensely proud of . charity such as cherisher , help a Squaddie , Catherine Care and Newlife be the good of Cannock Chase , burst with dedicated staff and volunteer who selflessly give their time . the construction , retail and education sector be the big employer locally — unsurprisingly , give that our three main town of Cannock , Hednesford and Rugeley enjoy a strategic position on a road and on a busy railway line . cannock have the headquarters of finning , the world ' s large dealer of Caterpillar construction equipment , as well as the west midland designer outlet village . nevertheless , my constituency be not just urban and industrial ; it be also semi - rural , with around a third of our land be agricultural . cluster around the village of Slitting Mill , Prospect Village , Cannock Wood , Wimblebury , Norton Canes and Heath Hayes be a tapestry of farm . many of these community feel left behind — last in the queue for infrastructure and service that other area take for grant . a lack of access to GPs and bus service be frequently raise by my constituent in rural area . we be also home to many business in the food supply chain , from processor to distributor . because of those constituency interest , as well as my passion for the sector , I be delighted to be get stick into my role on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . intersperse between house , factory and nature reserve be small remnant of the once dominant coalmining industry , some of which be conscientiously preserve as much love reminder of our proud mining heritage . while we do not want to see a return to coalmining , our town and village long for the secure job , social fabric and sense of common identity that characterise coalfield community for century . the sudden closure of Rugeley power station in 2016 signal a final move away from coal . the now clear site be soon to be renew , with a new community of hundred of home , a school and a new park , which will alleviate flooding from the River Trent . follow the very welcome and long overdue return of the mineworker ' pension scheme investment reserve to hundred of family in my constituency , I look forward to work with the Government and other to bring investment and renewal to community across Cannock Chase . decide what to say in a maiden speech lead we to reflect on what bring we to this extraordinary place , and what we hope to achieve for the people who send we here . for I personally , it be momentous to be stand here , because 20 year ago I be a painfully shy young boy in the corner of the playground with my head bury in a book , try as hard as I could to be invisible to the bully who torment I for a sexuality that , at that age , I do not yet understand . today , I stand here proudly as a Member of this House . if I achieve just one thing in my new job , I hope it be to show young people who be in the position that I be in that your bully do not define you , nor do they limit what you go on to achieve . I also hope to make my mark in other way . alongside my incredible husband , I be an adoptive parent to a beautiful four - year - old daughter , and foster carer to an equally beautiful nine - week - old baby boy , so adoption , permanence and our care leaver be all passion of mine . have be a councillor in my constituency for over five year , I be and will always be a fierce advocate for local council and the tangible difference that they make to our community . give that my constituency have the high proportion of people who commute by car in the whole of England , I know that a priority must be to fix the pothole . I be delighted that the Government be commit to both devolution and decent road . as a proud member of the Co - operative party , I be always keen to promote democratic ownership . community in rural and coalfield area know more than most the value of club together and give everyone a stake in the place and service that they rely on . it be safe to say that I have lot on my to - do list , which be hardly groundbreake for an MP , but I must finish by thank the people who have enable I to serve my home of Cannock Chase in this House . if it take a village to raise a child , it take a whole town to win an election campaign . I thank the Cannock Chase Labour party and all the volunteer who contribute to our record - break result . I thank my incredible family , many of whom be in the Gallery . they have help I to overcome so much in my life , and they have put up with a lot ; I be sure that many Members ' family can relate to that . the final thank go , of course , to the people of Cannock Chase for give I the opportunity to fight for our town and village . I will go on as I have start , repay that trust with action and hard work for as long as they keep I here . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be traditional to say nice thing about somebody who have just give a maiden speech , but that be a genuinely outstanding maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) on the grace that he show to his predecessor , and his clear and obvious expertise on , and passion for , his constituency . I will pass on the offer to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , who I be sure will jump at the chance to go on a zipwire anywhere , but especially in the hon . member ' s patch . I be sure that my right hon . friend ' s diary secretary will be delighted with the commitment that I have just make on his behalf . the hon . member for Cannock Chase claim to have the most beautiful constituency in the country . we will let that pass for the moment . I represent Westmorland and Lonsdale , which cover the Lake district and the Yorkshire dale — a vast area of the United Kingdom that be utterly beautiful . we be now the second large constituency in England . I know that it pale into insignificance besides some of my highland colleague ' , but all the same , be it a place that I be very proud to represent . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for lead this really important debate . I welcome the new shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , to her position . I be thrill and excite by the awesome picture paint of life in rural community before 4 July , but just to bring we all back down to earth , I will remind we of what life be really like . over the last five year , livestock farmer in my constituency and elsewhere have see a 41 % drop in their income . look at our rural community , and the evaporation of the long - term private rent sector , replace by Airbnbs — unregulated , unintervened on , and unprevented . second home ownership be gobble up our village and kill off rural community . it be no surprise that at the last general election , the Rural Services Network calculate that if rural England be a separate region , it would be the poor in England . the Secretary of State will seek to be less disastrous for rural community than the Tories who go before he . that be not a very high bar to clear , but look at the Budget , I be concerned that he may not find that as easy as he think . let I say a thing or two about the Budget , in particular APR , BPR and the change to inheritance tax . some 440 farmer in my constituency will be affect by the APR and inheritance tax change . it be important to remember that very large number of people live on significantly less than the minimum wage , yet have a property that , on paper , be worth enough for they to be clobber by the change . while 440 farmer will be directly affect , hundred of tenant will be indirectly affect , because when a landlord have to rearrange their business , perhaps to try to avoid pay inheritance tax , it will be tenant who end up lose out , however the landlord restructure their estate . I be pleased to hear the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs confirm at the Hexham northern farming conference last week that the Government will bring in a tenant farming commissioner . I congratulate and thank they for do that , but the position will not be up and run before the policy have be introduce . tenant will be evict from their land . in our community , we will see lakeland clearance as a result . the policy have be sell as one that attack the wealthy . no — the wealthy will find way around it , just as we be find with business property relief . I cite the case of the owner of a family - run , very famous , wonderful holiday park in the central lake in my constituency . he be a father in his 90 . the business be not worth million in term of cash flow or profit , but to pay the death duty , the family will have to sell out to another big corporate . big corporate and big equity house will buy up farming and non - agricultural family business . when it come to farming , land will pass into non - agricultural use , and the house will be turn into yet another second home . that will be devastating for not just family farm but rural community as a whole . family farm be a key part of the fabric of our countryside , as farmer in my rural constituency tell I every day . they have spend all weekend try to get my attention just to tell I that . what really worry I about the change to inheritance tax in the Budget be that they will directly and disproportionately affect small family farm . do my hon . friend agree that that will have a devastating effect on small farm , and on our food security ? I think it will . many farmer earn less than the minimum wage , and although they own property worth an awful lot of money , it be worth nothing to they , really , because it be their business . as a consequence of the change , someone will own that farm , but it will no long be a family ; it will be some huge estate , or a private equity firm . the Government must listen on that issue . I will turn my thought to funding element in the Budget . I have find a very rare creature : a Brexit benefit . leave the common agricultural policy , and move towards environmental land management scheme — set up by the previous Government , adopt by this one , and support in principle by the Liberal Democrats — be an opportunity to make thing well for farmer and our countryside . however , the previous Government botch thing completely by fail to fund the project properly , and by take away basic payment at a regular and dependable rate , and not replace they quickly enough with a new payment under the environmental scheme . that have massively reduce our ability to feed ourselves . the agricultural policy of the last Conservative Government , which have , so far , be adopt by the current Government , be absolutely insane , in that it disincentivise the production of food . that be ridiculous , and I hope that the new Government look actively at put it right . the effect of the £ 350 million underspend by the previous Government be not feel in the pocket of the big landlord , who be able to get into the scheme relatively easily ; it be small family farm that suffer , yet the Budget speed up the rate at which we be get rid of the basic payment , which be deeply troubling . a reduction of at least 76 % in the basic payment for those still in the system will be devastating for their business . People do not know what to do next ; they may end up back out of environmental scheme and farming intensively in order to pay the rent and keep a roof over their family ' s head . it be worth bear in mind the impact that the measure will have on the mental health of farmer . let we put ourselves in their position . a fifth or sixth - generation tenant farmer or owner - occupier might see that they could lose the family farm because of the Conservatives botch the system and the Labour Government ' s cliff edge . do not put people in that position . give they time to move into new scheme , rather than kick the leg of the old system from underneath they . let I say a word about trade deal before I talk about other important rural issue . the previous Government absolutely throw british farmer under the bus in the deal that they cut with New Zealand and Australia . we must of course be pragmatic about relationship with the incoming Administration in the United States , but in any deal with the US , I urge the Secretary of State not to do what the Conservatives do in their deal with Australia and New Zealand . protect british farmer and protect our value , please . the hon . Gentleman and I share very similar concern about the trade deal with Australia and New Zealand . we fear that import would swamp the market , but fortunately that have not come to pass ; it have all be swallow up by an ever - voracious chinese and south - east asian market . New Zealand lamb producer have actually reduce the size of the flock per capita . what we worry about have not come to pass , and we should be grateful for that . well , I think it have come to pass , to a degree , in the sense that we allow equal access to our market to those produce animal product — meat and other food product — who have low standard than british farmer . that be just not fair ; it be not a level playing field . the american market be far big , and my great fear be that do a similar deal with Donald Trump will do much more harm to british farmer . I hope that the Secretary of State will be mindful of that . let I move on to other issue that affect our rural community . in a constituency such as mine , the average house price be 14 time the average household income . we have a 7 , 000 household - strong waiting list for social rent housing . I mention early the collapse of the long - term private rent sector into Airbnb , which have a huge consequent impact on life . I can think of a particular couple — she be a teaching assistant ; he be a chef — who be kick out by the landlord , who want to go with Airbnb . as a result , they have to take their two kid out of school , give up their job and leave the area completely . there be hundred and hundred of such case , and the previous Government do not intervene until it be far , far too late . the impact of the housing crisis in rural community across our country be not just deeply upsetting and devastating for family , but damage to our workforce . sixty - six per cent of lake and dale hospitality and tourism business be operate below capacity because they can not find enough staff . one in five care job in Cumbria be unfilled because of a lack of permanent workforce . another matter that the previous Government refuse explicitly to tackle , and which I hope this Government will tackle , be the scourge of excessive second home ownership in Britain ' s rural community . People own those bolthole home but barely live in they . the excessive number of second home in our community mean that we lose our school , our bus service and the very heart of those community . will the Secretary of State consider do what the Liberal Democrats have propose for year by make second home ownership a separate category of planning use , so that planner have the opportunity to protect their community ? on health , so many of the issue that we face in rural community relate to distance from care and people ' s ability to get where they need to be in time . that also mean that we have efficiency issue . a GP serve a huge acreage may not be very efficient with their relatively small list , but we desperately need they . will the Government consider our proposal for a strategic small surgery fund to keep vital GP surgery open in rural community ? we must also bear in mind that some of the long and most unacceptable waiting time for cancer treatment be in rural community . we very much welcome the £ 70 million for radiotherapy that be announce just before the Budget — much to Mr Speaker ' s chagrin — but will the Secretary of State bear in mind that 3 . 5 million people in the country , most of they in rural community , live in radiotherapy desert ? half of we will have cancer at some point in our life , and half of those people should receive radiotherapy treatment , yet barely a quarter of they do . one reason for that be that community such as mine be just too far from that treatment . will the Government ensure that some of that money go towards provide satellite unit in Kendal and other part of rural Britain . on public transport , it be right to say that the Government have make a poor decision in increase the bus fare cap . that will have a huge impact on low - wage worker , particularly in rural part of the country . frankly , a £ 3 cap — or even a £ 2 cap — be a fat lot of good if there be no bus to use it on . I encourage the Secretary of State to devolve to local authority the power to run their own bus service , and not to enforce local government reorganisation in order to achieve it — just give they those power now . I be come to the end of my remark , I promise . on broadband , the new Government — and the previous Government — have make good progress on Project Gigabit , and we ought to be grateful for that , but they must be aware that there will always be place that the project will not reach , include four in my constituency : Warcop , Hilton , Murton and Ormside . those place be in defer scope and , currently , be likely to get no service whatsoever . will the Government consider de - scope those place so that they can access voucher ? that would allow B4RN , our wonderful local not - for - profit broadband company , to step in and do the job . you will be delighted to hear , Madam Deputy Speaker , that this be my final point . it be worth point out that under the Conservatives , 45 % of water bill payer ' money go into the pocket of shareholder in dividend , into bonus or into debt financing . meanwhile , half a million instance of sewage dumping in our lake and river happen each year . we welcome some of the Government ' s proposal to clean that up , but without radical reform of the industry — which they be not propose — that problem will not be solve in a long - term way . in conclusion , our rural community have be take for grant and deeply damage by a Conservative Government ; our memory in rural Britain be very long , and they will not be excuse that failure . we also see a Labour Government whose early start be not promise for our rural community . as such , we in the liberal Democrats have make a deliberate choice to be the voice of rural community . we will take up that mantle with humility and passion , because a Britain that can not feed itself be a Britain that will fail . I call Chris Kane to make his maiden speech . it be a great honour to be call to make my first contribution in this place as the Member of Parliament for the new constituency of Stirling and Strathallan . my constituency be the geographic heart of Scotland , and what a beautiful part of the world I be lucky enough to represent ! at just under 2 , 500 sq km , it be predominantly a rural constituency — from its farming village , include Drymen , Buchlyvie , Callander and Killin , to its former coalmine village of Bannockburn , Fallin , Plean and Cowie ; from the bonnie bank of Loch Lomond to the mountain of the Trossachs and the valley carve by the river Forth , Endrick , Teith and Allan . it have the city of Stirling , with its majestic castle defend a royal burgh that become a royal city in 2002 , and the city of Dunblane , with its magnificent medieval cathedral . politically , I follow in the footstep of a daunting list of constituency representation that include one Prime Minister , the father of a Prime Minister , two secretary of State for Scotland , a Secretary of State for War , a Father of the House of Commons and a Leader of the House of Lords . in my lifetime , we have have Harry Ewing , the godfather of devolution ; Michael Forsyth , who bring the Stone of Destiny back to Scotland ; and Dame Anne McGuire , who as Minister for disabled people sign the first human right charter of the 21st century on behalf of the United Kingdom at the United Nations . Steven Paterson and Stephen Kerr bring we to my predecessor , Alyn Smith . Alyn represent Stirling in the previous Parliament , but prior to that , he represent Scotland with distinction as a Member of the European Parliament . he care deeply for Scotland and have public service at his heart . I wish he well for the future and thank he for his service . the coalfield of central Scotland transform the landscape of the southern end of my constituency over the past 150 year . my great - grandfather , William Kane , be a miner , and while work at the coalface in 1914 , a large rock dislodge from the ceiling and crush he . William die from his injury . his son , my grandfather Frank , be 12 year old , and have to leave school to earn money — not to take the family out of poverty , but to keep they alive . everything that trouble I about that story have be improve by the Labour party and the trade union movement , with their relentless focus on improve workplace condition and worker ’ right over the past 100 year . " we feel that something should be do . we have the idea that one of the function of the Government of this country be to see to it that there should be equality , equity , and fairplay between the party , that the weak should be protect from any outrage by the strong … it be the business of the Government to see to it that there should be equity and fairplay between all condition of people in the State . " — [ Official Report , 13 December 1922 ; Vol . 159 , c . 3011 . ] those be not my word , but those of my grandfather Frank ' s uncle , Hugh Murnin , who be also a miner . they be speak by Hugh in this place , in his maiden speech , after he become the MP for Stirling in 1922 . read all of Mr Murnin ' s speech , I be strike by how much have change from his description of work , and how much have stay the same . there be still much to do to deliver dignity and fair play , which be why I be proud that this Government be raise the national living wage and , through the Employment Rights Bill , will update the UK ' s outdated employment law and turn the page on an economy blight by insecurity , poor productivity and low pay . I should say that 12 - year - old Frank , my grandfather , become a grocer ' s apprentice . he develop an entrepreneurial spark that take off when the BBC begin broadcast in Scotland in the 1920 . he open Bannockburn ' s Radio Music Store to supply radio set and constantly recharge the large lead - acid battery on which they depend . that business prosper under my parent , Bill and Diane , and my brother Michael run the business today — shop local when you can . along with coal , the river and loch of my constituency bring with they nutrient that be vital for farming . the flat floodplain of the Forth be 16 mile long and 4 mile wide , and be fill with farm that today produce everything from beef to dairy and from sheep to pumpkin . for many year , the River Forth be Europe ' s premier oyster fishery . over 30 million oyster be harvest each year in the early 19th century , but overfishe cause a collapse and the Forth oyster be declare extinct in 1957 . issue such as overfishing and sustainability be study in great depth at the University of Stirling ' s international centre for aquaculture , the large of its kind in the world . it be lead the way in research to tackle the global problem of food security , hunger and sustainability through the world ' s river and sea . it be also a researcher from the institute of aquaculture who discover in 2014 that the Forth oyster be still alive , with two of they grow in the river . when the railway arrive in my constituency in 1848 , it bring with it an entrepreneurial spirit that see Scotland ' s first oil refinery open in Riverside in Stirling . until the Forth bridge open in 1890 , the bridge at Stirling carry most of Scotland ' s good to and from the highland . Scotland ' s first heavy - than - air flight take place in Stirling when the barnwell brother build and fly an aircraft in the shadow of Stirling castle . that entrepreneurial spirit live on in the like of Highland Spring , a fantastic family business in Blackford that neighbour Gleneagles , one of the world ' s premier hotel and golf course . in Stirling , a £ 20 million investment have recently be announce to create a film and tv studio that will be the large in Scotland . Stirling be the first gigabit internet city in the United Kingdom , and one of the first in the world to digitally map its city to create an augmented reality smartphone experience . we be a grow base for life science , manufacturing and , of course , tourism . my constituency offer some of the good outdoor activity in the country , from salmon fishing to hillwalking , with lot of family - friendly activity along the way . if history and heritage be your thing , we have castle , monument , battleground and the only work church other than Westminster Abbey to have host a coronation . for those who like sport , Stirling be showcase to the world in 2023 with the time trial of the Union Cycliste Internationale ' s cycle world championship . Scotland ' s national swimming academy be at Stirling University and have produce olympic medallist include Duncan Scott and Robbie Renwick . the UK ' s national curling academy be also in Stirling , and I can not mention sport without reference Judy , Jamie and Andy Murray , whose success , resilience and mindset have forever link tennis with the city of Dunblane . Stirling and Strathallan be not in the heart of Scotland : it be the heart of Scotland . much of the modern sense of scottish cultural identity originate in my constituency , from the battle of Wallace and Bruce at Stirling bridge and Bannockburn over 700 year ago to the reinvention of tartan at the mill of William Wilson — also in Bannockburn — in the 1800 . a much more subtle sense of my constituency be find here in this place and in the UK identity , because it be a Stirling resident , a weel - kent local face call King James VI , who unite the kingdom of England and Scotland in 1603 . I have walk about this place wonder which of our tradition have their origin in the tradition of the court of King James at Stirling castle . stirling be celebrate its 900th anniversary this year — 900 year since King David grant a small settlement on the River Forth burgh status . Stirling and Strathallan have go on to give much to Scotland , the United Kingdom and the world over the past 900 year , and there be much more to come . Stirling and Strathallan be proud of its past and ambitious for its future , and I be hugely honour and privileged to represent my home here in this place . it be a privilege to follow the maiden speech of the new hon . member for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) . I be sure he will make a significant contribution to this place , and as a fellow Scot I wish he well . I be lucky to represent the Scottish Borders , the place I call home . we have wonderful town in the border , but it be one of the most rural constituency in the whole United Kingdom . there be a strong sense of community spirit among local people , but there be also a deep and grow concern that the government in Edinburgh and London do not get what be important to our community . there be a widen disconnect between people and politician , and a grow feeling that the need and concern of rural area be not important to Scotland ' s two government . for 17 year , rural area in Scotland have be overlook , and even ignore , by the SNP Government , who do not understand what be important to our community — an SNP Government who be distract and focus on their own selfish and often divisive obsession . they spend time on fringe issue , such as gender reform , that do not matter to the everyday life of people in the border . with a new Government in London , local people be now feel the same way about Labour . labour clearly do not value rural area and do not care about farmer or listen to our community . the Labour Government be bad news for the border and for rural area across Scotland and the United Kingdom . let we look at what the Labour Government be already do to rural community . in their first Budget they change inheritance tax , and business and agricultural property relief , despite warning of the impact on rural area . their family farm tax will rip apart rural business and prevent farmer from pass on the family farm to the next generation . it be cruel , bitter and divisive . it be also the opposite of what Labour say it would do — another broken promise from the Labour Government . let we listen to what Labour say before the election . the Secretary of State say in December 2023 that the Labour party have no plan to change inheritance tax , include agricultural property relief , so it be shameful that he now claim to be proud of Labour ' s family farm tax . he be not the only one to make that pledge . the Prime Minister , the Chancellor , the Secretary of State for Scotland and the scottish Labour leader , Anas Sarwar , repeatedly promise not to raise taxis on work people , but that be exactly what they have do . I have news for Labour : farmer be work people . in fact , they be some of the hard - work people of any industry . they get up before dawn and put in a hard shift every single day of the week , 365 day of the year . labour should be ashamed of raise tax on farmer and prevent they from pass on the family farm . this shameful betrayal will not be forget by rural area or in my border constituency . let I share with the Labour party what local farmer be say , because it be clearly not listen . I recently speak to Colin and Jill McGregor of McGregor Farms near Coldstream , who say : " the autumn Budget that Labour broadcast last week will affect every family farming business across the country . we have be digest the detail over the last couple of day and can see a substantial financial impact on our farming business . the Government seem to have no idea of the cost involve in agriculture . the tax that would have to be pay on death will cripple many family farm , with a huge proportion have to sell land to pay the tax and break up family business that have be work the land for many generation . " Labour do not seem to care about the damage it be do to farming . farming be not just a job but a way of life . we can not overlook the immense contribution that our farmer and food producer make towards the rural economy and protect our natural environment . they supply supermarket and local shop , provide for housing in our town and village , invest in infrastructure , create job , employ worker , and much more . it be crucial that the Government take the right step and measure to protect the industry and ensure its longevity for many year to come . Labour and the SNP must provide certainty and stability to our farmer . if they do not , farmer and landowner will no long invest or provide those important service . we should not forget : no farmer mean no food . labour ' s family farm tax will not just break up family farm , but limit food production , damage our food security and drive up the cost of our weekly food shop in supermarket . labour must drop the tax and keep its word to farmer . but that be not all : Labour must start listen to rural area . as it stand , Labour ' s plan will do great damage to local transport plan . Labour have announce plan to drop the dualling of the A1 road , which be a vital transport link for my constituency in the Scottish Borders and for cross - border connection between Scotland and the rest of the UK , and it have halt progress on the border railway , which be crucial for commuter and anyone look to get around in the border . how be the border economy suppose to grow , and how be business suppose to create job , when Labour be cut investment in our community ? I will always stand up for rural area , especially those in the Scottish Borders . it would be nice if , just once , the Labour party do the same . I call David Taylor to make his maiden speech . it give I enormous pride to be stand before you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to make my maiden speech as Hemel Hempstead ' s MP . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) and for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) . I know Stirling well through my involvement in the Make Poverty history campaign ; it be a very beautiful place . I be grateful to make my maiden speech in the presence of the Secretary of State , who be generous with his time in my constituency during the election . I be humble enough to accept , however , that the primary reason for his presence be usually the fact that his mother reside in Hemel Hempstead and be a member of the local party . in this debate about rural affair , I want to start by pay tribute to the beautiful countryside that surround our town , and to the village that be part of the constituency follow the change to the boundary at the last election . from St Lawrence church in Bovingdon , where I be this morning to mark Armistice Day , to Chipperfield cricket club and the Green Dragon pub in Flaunden , we be bless with many picture postcard scene — and my dog , Albert , be particularly fond of chase squirrel on Chipperfield common . turn to Hemel itself , the old town be so picturesque that one local council official jokingly refer to it as Hemelwood , such be its popularity as a film location for local tv and movie . we be once home to the site of a major roman villa on the River Gade , which supposedly have the big roman bath outside Bath itself . when Hemel town council be amalgamate into a new district council , exactly 50 year ago this year , the then Labour leader of the council , Gordon Gaddes , who be still a stalwart in our community even though he be now in his 90 , choose an old latin name for the council — Dacorum , which mean " of the Dacians " , reference a period in Saxon time when danish law apply due to the presence of the Vikings . we also have a long - stand connection to Henry VIII , who in 1539 grant the town its market charter . because of he , the mighty Hemel Hempstead Town FC be nickname the Tudors . like many other , my family ' s connection to the area come from the creation of the new town after the second world war . this new town be one of Labour ' s fine achievement , provide family with decent housing , good - quality factory job , education and healthcare . from Chaulden where my dad grow up to Highfield where my mum do , and Adeyfield where my nan live now , council housing surround a square with amenity such as shop , a community centre , a place of worship , a gp surgery and school . I therefore welcome our new Government ' s commitment to build genuinely affordable housing and new council home , while also ensure that the right infrastructure accompany they . as we seek to build new town around the UK , I would be happy to show Ministers the virtue of our ingenious , and often misunderstood , magic roundabout . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Mike Penning . it be not just our community that he serve with loyalty , but this nation : Sir Mike be a distinguished Grenadier Guardsman in the British Army and subsequently serve as a firefighter in Essex . in his maiden speech he say that when he leave this House he want to be know as a good constituency MP . he certainly be , doggedly take up his constituent ' individual case when they need he . I also pay tribute to our two previous Labour mps : Tony McWalter , who be kind enough to take I under his wing when I be a member of the UK Youth Parliament , and Lord Corbett . sadly , I never have the opportunity to meet Robin , but I know from my friendship with his widow , Lady Val , that he be a wonderful , warm and kind man who serve his constituent with compassion . that lead I to the point that I will prioritise as I serve the people of Hemel Hempstead . first , I will strive to improve local healthcare , include by push for a new community hospital . in line with this Government ' s commitment to neighbourhood - base care , and enjoy the support of the local NHS trust , the local council and my predecessor Sir Mike , I will push hard for the project to advance in the most ambitious way possible , as well as ensure that access to GPs and dentist improve . I will make sure that child in Hemel Hempstead , particularly those with special educational need and disability , get the good possible education . the SEND situation , not only in Hertfordshire but in Dacorum itself , be particularly bad ; the issue come up repeatedly when I be talk to voter as a candidate , and it be at the top of my postbag now as an MP . at one of my most recent surgery one parent , Natasha , tell I that her son Alfie have be diagnose with autism age five , yet he have be repeatedly refuse an education , health and care plan and have be wait for a specialist appointment for almost two year . sadly , her story be one that member of this House will know all too well . I be glad the issue be an area of priority for our new Government , and I will continue to work on it on a cross - party basis as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on SEND . I will also prioritise combat crime . recent stat show that Hemel be the one of the bad town in Hertfordshire for antisocial behaviour — indeed , it be the bad major town — while vehicle crime be at 105 % of the national crime rate . I have see that at first hand when I have have the opportunity to go out with local bobby on the beat . I will work hard to make our community safe , whether by get more police officer in our town or by work to reopen the front desk at Hemel police station . I know that the cost of living crisis be hurt people locally . food bank use have go up 1 , 000 % in the past 10 year in my constituency . I applaud the work that local charity such as dens , Community Action Dacorum and Hemel Hempstead Community Fridge be do to help . I be do everything I can to stand alongside they , but I also pledge to push for well decision to be make here in Westminster to ensure that food bank do not need to exist at all . in conclude his maiden speech , Sir Mike pay tribute to the person who bring he into politic , the late Sir Teddy Taylor — no relation ; it be a common name — and it be only fitting that I do the same . after take part in the UK Youth Parliament , I think long and hard about which great cause I want to focus my time and energy on . I get involve with the Make Poverty history campaign ; I still have the wristband around my wrist . I attend a rally exactly 20 year ago outside the Labour conference , where I hear the then Chancellor Gordon Brown speak in thunderous term of our duty to help those less fortunate than ourselves . a few year later , I have the enormous privilege of work for he , with my newly elect hon . friend the Member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) . many within these wall and beyond will recognise his — and her — unrelenting dedication and drive to improve the life of other , which inspire I to this day . finally , I add my name to those who have pay tribute to Jo Cox in their maiden speech . with the Labour Campaign for International Development , and now as a member of the International Development Committee , I remain committed to take forward her legacy , particularly on the responsibility to protect civilian , which be so urgent everywhere from Ukraine to Syria to Sudan . as Gordon say on the eve of the poll back in July , we have a choice in the UK and around the world : to succumb to pessimism or to embrace hopefulness and remember that , in Jo ' s word , " we be far more united and have far more in common than that which divide we . " — [ Official Report , 3 June 2015 ; Vol . 596 , c . 675 . ] I will do my utmost , as long as I have the honour of represent the people of Hemel Hempstead , to push for a more hopeful future in our community , our country and our world . rise — order . member will be conscious that lot of speaker wish to contribute this evening . after the next speaker there will be a six - minute limit , which may need to be reduce in due course . what a privilege and a pleasure it be to have be here this evening for three outstanding maiden speech . it be a great honour to follow the hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) . as it happen , I learn to swim at Dacorum leisure centre , but I never know what " Dacorum " mean until tonight , so I be grateful to he for that . it be great to hear about the develop film industry in Hemel Hempstead , which use to be famous for the old Kodak building . the hon . member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) say that Cannock Chase be more than a forest ; the hon . member for Hemel Hempstead have certainly demonstrate that Hemel Hempstead be much more than an extremely complicated roundabout . all three hon . member will be great contributor to this House of Commons and asset to our democracy . it be a pleasure to hear from they . Rural Britain be different . the rural economy be different , quality - of - life issue be different , the profile of crime be different — almost everything be different . in some way it be well — we have somewhat well air quality , and we spend less time sit in traffic — but there be also many challenge . the sheer distance involve affect so many thing , from people ' s ability to access regular specialist healthcare treatment to their ability to get the right t - level placement for their career . that , in turn , have an impact on health inequality and social mobility . the cost of provision mean that many of our constituent be off main drainage , and many more again be off the grid . that have implication for their cost and , indeed , for decarbonisation . on connectivity , thing have improve a great deal , but many member of this House will have have , or hear about , the experience of have to go to the end of the lane to receive a text message verification code that have already expire by the time they get back . thankfully , such thing continue to improve , but there be still a big gap between our rural and urban area . this be a broad topic . we could debate any of the issue that I mention , but to avoid be repetitious of other member , I will restrict myself to three disparate topic . the first relate to connectivity , not for broadband or mobile but for an old technology that often get overlook : the phone . rural area have a particular angle on the upcoming roll - out of the voice over internet protocol , which will replace the public switch telephone network . another thing to add to the list of difference in rural area be the weather , which mean that electricity line get knock over more often . we still have power cut in rural area , with a frequency that people in city might find hard to believe . sometimes they last for a few hour , but we have one in East Hampshire in the past few year that last for more than three day . the proposal to get rid of traditional telephone , which be a lifeline in such case , and replace they with internet telephony that rely on a one - hour power back - up be never go to work in rural area . I be pleased that there have now be a pause , and I be also pleased that some operator , include Vodafone , which I speak to the other day , be look into a much well power back - up . we need to see more on that , but in the meantime we need to ensure that consumer who be change system be make aware of the position . my second topic relate to housing and affordability . it be quite a niche topic nationally , but it be definitely not niche in my constituency , where we have an area that be partly in a national park and partly outside it . the housing target be set for the whole district , but there be severe restriction on what can happen inside the national park , so there be a great deal of pressure on development and therefore on service just outside it , in place such as Alton , four Marks and the southern parish of East Hampshire . it be also an issue inside the national park , because there be already an affordability discrepancy between inside and outside . over time , as there be disproportionate development outside , that discrepancy will grow . I hope the Minister will discuss this anomaly with his colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and that it can be fix in the national planning policy framework rethink . the situation be exacerbate by the massively high housing target now come for rural area , with the change in the formula mean much high target for area such as mine but with target reduce for part of London , where clearly there be a major , and in most measure a great , housing affordability issue . I ask Ministers to look again at how the affordability ratio and the overall formula work and seek to ensure that the new housing that get build , not just the exist stock , be truly accessible and affordable to local people , not just create very large number of new five - bedroom executive home which will be just as out of reach as those already there . my final point , which I know all member will make tonight , be about the importance of farming . nobody here need to be tell about the importance of farming ; it be not quite the same thing as rural affair but there be such a heavy overlap , and we rely on farmer for so much — for land stewardship , biodiversity , and manage the attractiveness of the countryside for the visitor economy . when we get snow in in Hampshire , we even rely on the farmer to clear the road . Most of all we must never forget that we rely on these man and woman for our food . land yield really matter ; it matter to they as agricultural business , but it also matter to we . the one asset we can not increase in size be the total amount of land that we have in the country . it be in our national interest to support the farming sector to be able to get the most production possible out of the land . I urge the government , genuinely , to think again about how they support this sector with the farming budget , with have a formal target for food security , and of course with rethink their terrible move on inheritance tax . there have always be different type of farm — large and small , owner - occupy and tenant — but family farm have always be at the heart of our agricultural sector . they be business , but in one sense they be unlike other business . their big asset be not something they have buy and be not something they intend to sell , so in that sense they be more like custodian of an asset than owner . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I must ask the hon . Gentleman to forgive I , as I need to finish in less than one minute . the agricultural property relief and business property relief change will cut right into this asset . I have a constituency example , a 50 - acre farm with an estimate farm value of £ 5 . 5 million , but the profit from it be only £ 19 , 000 per year . in the event of the demise of the parent , the liability could be £ 900 , 000 , and there be no way with a return on total capital of 0 . 35 % that they can do anything other than sell it . that matter not just to that family but to all of we . first , there be the concern that large business will come along and buy up these family farm , and they be not necessarily buy they to plant crop or rear livestock ; they may use they for renewable energy project or carbon credit use , and that will mean less food production . secondly , be aware that a tax be come upon death , the current generation farm the land will be disincentivise from invest in the farm , know the return effectively will be low . for those two reason , it do not just matter to those family ; it matter to every single one of we in this Chamber and every single one of we in this country , and I ask the Minister to please think again . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . can member imagine what it be like for someone to not be able to see , hear water flooding into their home , not know where it be come from , fear how deep it might get , with no idea where the next escape route might be in the house ? can they imagine be a child who have previously become homeless due to flooding and lose their most treasured possession , for whom just hear a raindrop outside trigger their post - traumatic stress disorder and nightmare ? can they imagine be a farmer whose entire crop be lose to the impact of flooding ? can they imagine be a carer for a child on dialysis , know that when it rain they could soon be deal with pump out contaminate water from their own home while their child be have treatment ? for many , these situation be not unimaginable ; it be their reality . that be not a surprise when flooding be the most record natural disaster on this planet . in 2023 , 176 flood disaster be record across the world , a similar number to the year before , both of which be significantly high than the average of 86 record in the 1990 . one third of our planet be prone to flooding , and over five million people here in the UK live or work in flood - risk area . flooding be also a huge economic problem , as we have hear today . accord to work by the Risky Cities project , Arup and other partner , the single big shock or stress that can affect the economy of 60 % of the Rockefeller Foundation 100 resilient city across the world be flood . however , it be not just too much water ; we be increasingly see the impact of too little water , or drought , and too dirty water , or pollution , impact our rural and urban community . water know no boundary , whether geographical , political or topographical . that be particularly challenge in country such as ours where we have try to make sense of the natural world and environment by create framework and therefore put boundary in place . water be complex . in many part of the country , we could walk a kilometre alongside a watercourse and anywhere along that stretch someone might be impact by flood . the same water can pass along a river manage by the Environment Agency , into a culverte area manage by the local authority , through a farmer ' s field with riparian ownership , back to the EA , into an internal drainage board - maintain ditch , through a water company pump station , back to a sustainable urban drainage pond manage by the local authority , and so on . in that short stretch between here and Westminster bridge , we could have several hand - off and handover of that ownership of an asset by half a dozen authority . to be frank , if we ask any of my resident who I visit recently in westwoodside in Axholme , a rural area , or the River Idle Flood Action Group in Bawtry , they will tell we that they do not care who own the water , they just want that water out of their home , out of their garden , and out of their business premise . in fact , they do not want it even to get to the stage where it come in in the first place . the same water management principle apply to cleanliness , whether water be impact from diffuse source like the run - off from land , combine sewer overflow , trade waste , septic tank or misconnection . the ammonia , E . coli , enterococci , nitrate and metal that impact our ditch , dyke , river and ocean come from many source own by many individual and organisation . we all have a massive part to play in clean up watercourse , and the fact remain that we need to manage water across the whole catchment ; that require system think and it require our rural community . a catchment approach be imperative in manage water across the whole water cycle and in leadership , both role model and visionary . role model leadership involve act now . we have see how this Government have focus and take swift action through the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which will start to tackle part of the challenge , set up the flood taskforce , provide £ 60 million in the Budget for flood - relate work with the agricultural community , and the big agricultural budget in history for sustainable farming . visionary leadership involve look at long - term planning for resilience to flooding through adaptation and mitigation . it be the kind of vision that consider innovation through sustainable urban drainage and nature - base solution , work with the land to create flood adaptation while improve soil effectiveness , reduce carbon and find new commercial opportunity . I have see example that deliver a combination of these thing , like farmer in Yorkshire planting pop - up rainforest . that visionary leadership should also consider education , new skill , behaviour change towards partnering and close work across all agency . it be because of all the above that I welcome the Government ' s action regard the independent water commission , which will be the large review of the sector since privatisation . nobody know the land well than those who manage it , so I urge the Minister to continue to work closely with our landowner . nobody be more passionate about the environment than our young generation , so I urge the Minister to continue to work well with our Education Department around Skills England and the new opportunity for our rural area . nobody have more passion locally than our community , who want to see improvement on their doorstep . so may I finally urge our Minister to consider how to good work and co - create with our community group — Order . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I remind the House of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I congratulate all those who deliver their maiden speech tonight , and I look forward to hear more from they in the year to come . I welcome this debate , which be exceptionally timely and important , and the fact that it be in Government time . I say gently to those on the Treasury Bench that if this be the start of a process of engagement with rural community , that be welcome , but there have to be a process ; this debate alone will not be enough . the truth be that in the countryside , there be a genuine crisis of confidence in community ’ future , and in the future of farming . that be feel deeply in my constituency . I spend time on Saturday afternoon talk to four farmer in Orkney . those young man have make a genuine commitment to the industry and be now at a loss . I really do not know what I could say to give they comfort or optimism . the language they use be interesting . one of they continually describe the change as " cruel " . it be worth reflect on why he do that . it be not hyperbole . here be somebody who have give his family and his community a commitment that he would farm for the rest of his day , and suddenly it feel as though he have be cut off at the knee . the Minister will doubtless tell we the number of estate that will , or will not be , affect . those figure will need rather more robust scrutiny than they have have thus far . however , it be not all about figure ; it be also about the psychology and the commitment . these people be hurt , and if there be to be any chance of the Government turn thing around , there will have to be a rather more substantial and prolonged programme of engagement . farming be at the heart of the countryside community . this be not just about the money that go to farmer ; that money then go to seed merchant , feed merchant , haulier , mart , vet , contractor , and the one - man business that go around farm pare foot , scan for pregnancy and the rest of it . it be right that the most significant feature of the Budget for the community be inheritance tax , but there be an awful lot more in it that cause I concern . the right hon . Gentleman mention the consequence for the broad community and business of extra taxis on the agricultural sector . those be feel in my constituency of Basildon and Billericay , where we have the big New Holland tractor factory . this weekend , constituent be already come to I worried about how the change will impact their job . it be not just rural Britain that be affect . do he acknowledge that there be a knock - on effect across the entire economy ? I fear that there absolutely be that impact . that be why I gently caution those who frame the issue as a debate between urban and rural community to think a bit more carefully . there be a strong case to be make for explain to people in town why people in the countryside matter to they , their future and the economy , rather than set this up as a contest between the two . beyond inheritance tax , other issue in the Budget cause I concern , include the return of change to the treatment of double cab pick - up , and the effect of the carbon border adjustment mechanism on fertiliser . we all know what happen to food price the last time we see a spike in fertiliser price . that be not cause by the imposition of a tax , but it do not matter what cause it ; the effect will still be feel by family . there be also the measure on furnished holiday let . farmer have for decade be encourage by successive government to diversify their business . many have go into furnished holiday let for extra income , but they now find that they be be clobber again . they be have the rug pull out from underneath they . the inheritance tax change have generate the great concern . I hear talk of scaremongere , but there have to be well respect than that for those concern about the change . I suspect that a lot of the figure that we hear have be affect by inter - vivos transfer between the generation . that be the most obvious way that inheritance tax can be deal with by an estate or a family , but it leave family open to difficult conversation and to the law of unintended consequence . nobody know what be around the corner , especially in farming , which , as we know , be one of the most dangerous occupation out there . I have sympathy with the Government want to close fairly well report and document loophole , but to do that at the expense of family farm be unjustifiable . the root of the problem , and the issue on which the Minister need to engage with the Treasury , be that the threshold have be set far too low . when the Budget change be announce , I go to estate agency website in Orkney and Shetland , and I find two farm currently on sale in Orkney , both on one of the outer isle — far away , where we would expect land price to be slightly low — and both be be sell by the same family . one be for £ 2 million and the other be for £ 2 . 2 million . if those be the price on an outer isle of Orkney , I can only assume that one would add a significant margin in Aberdeenshire , and a large margin in Fife and the Borders . by the time we get to the home county , goodness only know what the price would be . the concern of agricultural and rural community be genuine and well found , and they need to be address . there be a serious debate to be have here , and I very much hope to be part of it . the Minister be well intentione and diligent , but he need to listen more to the people affect by his decision — and , I be afraid , to listen less to the Treasury . I thank the Secretary of State for set out , early today , the support that our Government have put in place for rural area , and particularly long - term plan policy that will bring much - need sustainability to rural community such as mine in Shrewsbury . there be more than 350 farm in the beautiful village to the west and south of Shrewsbury town , where there be stunning view over the Shrewsbury hill ; it be an area of outstanding natural beauty and a well - know hiking spot . locally , as nationally , farmer and the wide rural community have be concern for several year , because despite all the noise from Opposition Members , the previous Conservative Government leave our farmer to struggle . in fact , they preside over a deterioration in the profitability of british farming that decimate most of our small farm . they have be squeeze out of business due to ever high overhead , low supermarket price and creep land value . where be the support from the previous Conservative Government ? where be the post - Brexit funding ? where be the post - Brexit trading deal that be to have protect animal export ? where be the support with custom red tape ? instead , there be the SFI and ELM scheme , which be rush , complicated and too short - termist to be of any real use . it be no surprise that there have be an underspend of £ 227 million on those scheme in the past two year , as farmer could not respond quickly enough to the complex scheme , and the scheme do not match their need for long - term planning . that underspend be criminal when we consider that one in 10 dairy farmer have go under in the past two year . all across the industry , farmer be tell we the same thing : british farming be no long profitable . this weekend , like many member , I be out visit my local farm in Arscott and Yockleton , just outside Shrewsbury . I meet fourth and fifth - generation farmer . yes , they do have question for I about the threshold for agricultural land , and I be able to sit with they and explain that the threshold for couple be £ 3 million . more importantly still , for true family farm — those that we wish to protect — where at least two generation be work side by side in partnership , they can share not just the workload but their asset by plan their financial future . that be manageable . what be not manageable be those farmer ’ override concern about the ever - decline profit in food production in our country . that be their no . 1 concern , and our . on every farm that I visit — I be sure that it be the same at every farm that hon . member visit , whether arable or livestock — what come up be the way that low product value , couple with high overhead , threaten not just farmer but all the supply chain that hold together the fabric of our rural community , to whom we owe so much . I be therefore pleased to be able to remind farmer in my area that our Budget announcement — not much press coverage be give to it — deliver the great agricultural investment in our country ' s history : £ 5 billion over two year . by the way , the fact that the commitment be over two year be welcome by our farmer , who can finally plan , with security and stability , more than one season ahead . give the awful condition that they have endure over the last few year , that immediate injection of funding and certainty be very welcome . let we not forget that it be the main ask of the National Farmers Union in the week and month lead up to our Budget ; we have deliver on its no . 1 request . however , what most pleased farmer — they be surprised to hear it — be our long - term plan in the new deal for farmer , through which we will protect farmer from be undercut , through trade deal , by those low welfare standard . we will also sign the all - important new veterinary agreement with the EU to cut red tape at our border and get british food export move again . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , but I need to rush . labour ' s flagship policy , of which we be all so truly proud , be that we will underpin british farming with long - term sustainable contract , by direct public procurement towards british supplier . we will use the Government ' s purchase power to back british produce ; 50 % of food buy in every hospital , army base and prison will be locally source or certify to high economic standard . these be cater contract that the Government be already fund . now , thank to our Labour Government , all that investment will benefit our local farmer directly , and for the long term . every farmer I have speak to be delighted to hear that we have understand that the problem be the long - term profitability of farming , and that the Government be prepared to put their money where their mouth be to protect british farmer . it be a pleasure to take part in the debate . I congratulate all hon . member who have make their maiden speech today ; they have all be genuinely fascinating and worth listen to . I want to touch on the flooding issue that really cause concern in rural area . even in town such as Tadcaster , which have the River Wharfe run through it , flooding be cause not just by water from the river , but by run - off in the town . the town depend on serviceable drainage , which can often get block , and drainage flap . we be try to get flood defence build , and be move forward with money put in place by the last Conservative Government . Tadcaster ' s flood alleviation scheme be crucial to the economic regeneration of the town , because people in such town can not have faith in the local economy if they be flood all the time . I say with this with great disappointment . I have have several meeting on these issue with the Environment Agency , Yorkshire Water and Councillor Kirsty Poskitt — she be an independent councillor , but we be work well together — and Yorkshire Water promise we that the flap valve in Tadcaster that drain the water from the high street would be service once a month . that be a lie , and it have now say that it will do so every six month . that be not good enough . we be try to do what we can for our community , but we see the people in charge — the people whose responsibility this be — lie to our face . we will have further meeting about that , because community need certainty , and so do business . there be also issue when housing development be build in place with exist flood concern . when we really get out into the countryside , community can be cut off completely . they be struggle to cope with the watercourse as they be now , and we know that the weather and climate be change — there be more water . I have have have several meeting in one village , Bishop Monkton , since I become the Member of Parliament . I have speak to local people , the parish council , local councillor Nick Brown and the flood group . again , promise be make , but we be not get anywhere . Bishop Monkton have be let down by Yorkshire Water and the EA for too long . there be a new planning application for 60 new home , and they say that the water system can cope with it . it can not — that be blatantly obvious . when these big development go in , Yorkshire Water and the Environment Agency should make they do water alleviation work through soakaway and slow the flow , rather than just say , " well , accord to our model , it can cope . " Sewage flow down the street in that small , picturesque , beautiful Yorkshire village in my constituency , yet it be claim that there be nothing wrong . the hon . member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , who be a sound man , be a West Ham fan , say that nobody know land well than those who manage it . he be absolutely right . that be why we should be concern about this inheritance tax raid on farming , which will get rid of tenant farmer — those who have work the land for generation and understand good the watercourse and what happen there . in the village where I talk to people , who know well than anybody else the hydrology of the land ? it be the farmer and the people who live there . if all that go to corporate who have no contact with the local community , we will lose the knowledge and memory of the people who have work that land for century . I be not sure whether my right hon . friend will have find this in his constituency , but in Staffordshire many farmer feel utterly betray . they listen when the Labour party say it would not punish they through inheritance tax change , yet that be what it be do . there be a real sense of be let down and betray by the Labour party . I be most grateful to my right hon . friend . we know what our rural community be like , and I be sure we all enjoy a pint , but when I go to the pub at the moment I hear farmer in despair say , " we be tell this wouldn ' t happen . " as much as the small family farm , it be the tenant farm who be under real threat . for all the statistic that be pump out by the Treasury say this and that , it very much sound from the Secretary of State ' s open remark that there be a small cabal at the top of no . 10 make all the decision and that everybody else have to go out and sell they . we have all read that book , and we know where it come from . I have to say to the Labour party that " Animal Farm " be not an agricultural playbook . that be what be go on : it be , " we will tell you how to run your farm . we will tell you where to get the money from . if you can ' t do it , it be your failure . the state know good how to run it . " everything we have hear from Labour Front - Bench member dismiss everything that have come from the NFU and thousand of farmer around the country . I find it hard to believe that anybody have have nothing but positive letter and positive email in their inbox say , " oh , it ' s fine . we ' re very happy about it . everything you ' re do be great for the community . it ' s all right . we believe you . it be write in big white letter on the barn door that everything will be fine . " that will probably change later on and Labour will say , " no , that ' s what it always say . " we have read that book , and the Labour party need to start listen to the people who till and farm our land . it be not good enough to say , " you will be protect , " because they know that they will not be . that bring I back to the beginning . if we lose the people who understand the countryside and the hydrology , when in town such as Tadcaster and rural village such as Bishop Monkton and many more around my constituency we see housing go up on the land that have to be sell off to pay the inheritance tax bill , the flooding will become great and great . ultimately , that will lead to a far high cost to the country than the small amount of punitive tax that Labour claim will save the NHS . I would like to address four issue in the short time that I have . the first be water security . we have hear a lot about flooding today , but as my hon . friend the Minister will know , in Norfolk we have the opposite issue — water shortage be more of an issue for we . I will also speak about control environment agriculture — a new development phase that we can turbocharge in this country — as well as the horticultural sector , which be vital for we , and the Animal and Plant Health Agency . in Norfolk , as in the Minister ' s constituency in Cambridgeshire , we need to look at water security in a lot more detail . when speak with farmer last Thursday , one of the issue that come up be the building of reservoir on agricultural land . unfortunately , the Environment Agency and other planning authority be prove to be more of a barrier than a supporter of this construction , which mean that our farmer have to tap into more drinking water , which be more expensive and drive up price for they . the flood Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , who be not in her place , have be work closely with I , and I look forward to work with she to push forward new policy that ensure that reservoir can be build on agricultural land to develop water security . it be important to talk about new innovation in agriculture . all too often , we think of the more traditional method — the herbicide era and the pesticide era — but we be go into a new era of vertical farming and control environment agriculture . I believe that these be vital not only because we can get high yield from less land , but because they be well for the environment and help we meet our climate change target . however , there be an issue in the current legislation on biodiversity net gain , and I would appreciate it if the ministerial team would consider it . because these be closed structure , in their essence they be not net gain provider of biodiversity . at the same time , these structure decrease land use because they can increase production on a small site . they also use few damaging pollutant that leach into the area because they be , by their nature , closed system . they reduce carbon emission because they be able to precisely grow and engineer the plant that we need . to follow a bit of a theme , they have a small water footprint — go back to my first issue of what be important for Norfolk , we need proper use management of our water system . it would be great if my hon . friend the Minister would look into BNG requirement on control environment agriculture to make sure that we can grow this industry , tackle our climate emission target and be at the forefront of this sector around the world . next up , horticulture be important for my constituency of South Norfolk . I have Viking Nurseries , which I will visit in couple of week ' time . hon . member ' team may have notice that I sponsor the Horticultural Trades Association in Parliament , which give out 153 house plant . I hope that we brighten up the Houses of Parliament and all office across the estate . it be a fantastic event , and it be important to raise awareness that horticulture should not be overshadow by agriculture . both be aspect of our economy . the House of Lords report on horticulture recently show that the sector support 674 , 000 job and contribute about £ 28 billion to UK GDP and about £ 6 billion in taxation . it be not something to be sniff at . we also need to bear in mind that our country be the forerunner in horticulture , and we have lose that crown over the year to the Dutch . there be no reason why we should not regain that crown , and we should be push for that as a new government . the other issue that I would like to concentrate on be biosecurity and the apha . as be mention by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , bluetongue be sadly first find in Haddiscoe in my constituency . the outbreak spread across the eastern coast , and we be live with the consequence . there be extremely sad situation when people take animal to market and low price be be charge for no reason , even though they be be move within the market control area . that be an issue that we see with our biosecurity . this week we have also see the first measure case of the new variant of avian influenza come to our shore , which should worry we greatly . from speak to the APHA , it concern I that it be fight on so many front . sugar beet have a long grow season , so there be aphid for long because they be not kill off by the frost , and we therefore have more yellow leaf . we have bluetongue and avian influenza and over the sea we have african swine fever as well . these be great risk to UK biosecurity . I greatly welcome what be announce in the Budget — more than £ 200 million for investment into biosecurity — but we must work closely with the Home Office to make sure that our border security officer be fully train in this area to recognise the issue come to our shore and protect our farmer , agriculture and horticulture , which provide so much to South Norfolk and to the United Kingdom . this debate have be about APR , but I will talk about flood risk . Suffolk be , by its nature , a county at high risk of flooding . large part of my constituency be cover by river : we have the Rivers Deben , Orwell and Alde . we have tributary that filter across low - lie land and clay soil , which apparently be not particularly permeable — I learn that during the general election campaign . that mean that whenever there be heavy rainfall , stream and river become overburdened very quickly , create bog , waterlogge field and eventually flood across our field . the water have nowhere to go . road be overwhelmed , as be irrigation and sewerage system , and whole village can find themselves under a foot or two of water after one night . one year ago , Storm Babet do exactly that . we experience an incredibly wet October . one month ' s rainfall fall between 11 and 13 October , then 80 mm in the 24 - hour period of 18 October . People be strand in village and car be stick on driveway . People live in Wickham Market , Needham Market , Framsden and Charsfield be force out of their home . some be not yet back in . People be traumatise , exhausted and face financial oblivion after insurance company use small print to stop pay out on the damage cause by the flooding . we do not want to see that again , but the reality be that our climate be get more volatile and the risk of flooding be as high as ever . we must take preparedness seriously , which be why Suffolk county council , the Environment Agency and community group have undertake to clear river , improve water flow through pipe and gutter , dig trench and develop overflow area in case of high than average rainfall . I be more critical than many people of Suffolk county council and the Environment Agency for drag their foot at time . I be work with resident of Earl Soham who be try to get the highway agency to clear pipe and drainage . Suffolk county council be just not react quickly enough to that . I recognise that the funding be not there when it should be . the funding from the centre be not adequate , and responsibility over who should take control of the situation be confusing , which be why I support the private Member ' s Bill by my hon . Friend Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) to sort this out . I want to talk about something else that I believe be a real reason that flood risk have increase , and to remind the House that we have the option of reduce it in future . one of the reason that flooding have worsen in recent year be the development of vast number of housing unit in area of high flood risk . each development not only put more homeowner at risk of flooding , but compound that by increase the risk of surface water run - off . I know deep down that the decision to reform apr and increase the inheritance tax liability for small farm be fundamentally about release land in rural area so that developer can build more house on it . there be no justification whatsoever for it from an economic point of view . there be no way the Government will raise enough money to support public service , as various member have say today . the only viable reason that I can understand for the government introduce apr on small farm holding be because they want to release land for development . if we continue to concrete over fertile farmland , of any soil type , we will increase that risk . the Daily Telegraph , which I know be the paper of choice for more respectable conservative Members , report last year that wealthy investor be " hoover up " agricultural land to avoid inheritance tax , a situation that it say mean more land be fall into the hand of private and institutional investor . let I take a moment — member throughout the House have an opportunity to watch — to address that exact case . the Labour party want to tackle big landowner like James Dyson and the Grosvenor Group ; I have two point . first , take for a moment the incredible work do by Dyson Farming on food technology , which be increase the productivity of our land and the standard of food production on his farm . think of what the Grosvenor Group have do in the moorland and peatland of the north - west — it be a protector of our environment and have support our natural environment and increase the ecosystem . secondly , do the Government think for a moment that either of those two people be go to go to bed worried about the IHT change ? no , they be not . they will dodge it , much like many of the well - heel business people always do with taxis . the people who will bear the brunt of the Labour party ' s tax policy be small farm — family farm — that do not have a huge amount of capital . when we try to tax and demand liquidity from an illiquid source , we force people to fire sale their capital . it will not work . we have to understand the economic . the risk be real . in Needham Market , Hopkins Homes build the St George estate at the base of a hill in an old disuse quarry close to sea level , and right next to an area consider at high risk of flooding . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , because I do not have long . in Framlingham , development either side of Station road have increase the risk of surface flow in an area that is , again , at high risk of flooding . all these place be hugely impact by Storm Babet , and I believe the impact be make exponentially bad by huge housing development clutter our countryside . between 2001 and 2021 , Framlingham ' s population increase by 1 , 200 , which be nearly 50 % . the population in Debenham increase by 16 % . Great Blakenham have more than double in size . if we continue to use the Suffolk countryside to solve our housing crisis , the consequence will be disastrous . I be delighted to have the chance to speak in this important debate about rural affair . I will focus my remark on farming . West Cumbria be home to hundred of farmer , primarily cattle and upland sheep farmer . Sheep be ubiquitous in Cumbria : for every Cumbrian , there be five sheep . farmer be rightly very proud of our herdie , Rough Fells and Swaledales , as evidence by the closely fight competition at many local agricultural show . I have keep the peace by manage to avoid take part in any judging to date . I want to make three straightforward point , the first of which be about the relationship between farming and nature recovery . I want we , as a Government , to back farmer — especially those in iconic landscape like the western lake — who be lead nature recovery not as an alternative to food security but as a prerequisite for it . across 40 square mile of the upper Wasdale and Ennerdale fell and common , farmer have band together to form the West Lakeland community interest company . Will and Louise Rawlings , Richard Maxwell , Julius and Kirsten Manduell , Kevin and Yvonne Holliday and their daughter Vicky , Sue Lister and many other be work together in innovative way to ensure the long - term stability of traditional , nature - friendly farming and land management . my constituency be also home to the Wild Ennerdale partnership , one of the UK ' s large rewilding project . the vision be to protect this remote valley , in partnership with farmer . it be a breathtaking place to visit , so please do not share that secret beyond these four wall . People such as Rachel Oakley , Gareth Browning , Richard and his Galloways , and all the volunteer and partner staff from the National Trust , Forestry England , United Utilities and Natural England have make it a reality . I want the Government to do more to empower such model of nature recovery in partnership with farmer . the second point be about the phasing out of the basic payment system . despite the incredibly difficult financial backdrop , I welcome the Government ' s £ 5 billion commitment to support farmer over the next two year , include the large amount ever for sustainable food production and nature protection . that contrast sharply with the chaotic change to payment and the growth of a highly bureaucratic system under the previous Government . I have hear the concern from farmer about the phasing out of the delinked basic payment scheme . I want the Government to ensure that the future sustainable farming incentive and countryside stewardship rate mitigate the impact on farmer who have plan for delinked payment up to the end of 2028 . the third point be about the inheritance tax change . many farmer have express to I their anger about wealthy individual buy up agricultural land to avoid pay inheritance tax , and how that be force up land price so that young farmer can no long afford it . the Government ' s change seek to address that and be likely to affect only a very small number of estate in my constituency . I know that Ministers actively engage with farmer , and Government Members be very proud that Labour now represent many of the UK ' s rural community . [ interruption . ] I almost intervene on the shadow Secretary of State , who want to trade size of majority . I hold back from make a further intervention at that point , so I will ignore the hectoring . I ask Ministers to consider some form of transitional support for those who will pass down their farm in the come seven year , and who may now be catch out by change announce in the Budget . finally , I invite the Minister to come to west Cumbria and meet some of our brilliant farmer , as the Secretary of State have already do , to see at first hand the really important work they be do and the important place they have in the fabric of our community . I congratulate the hon . member who make their maiden speech early . I think they be all excellent , although I obviously take issue with anyone who do not think that North Shropshire be the good place to be an MP . North Shropshire be very rural and be inhabit by some of the good people you will ever meet . I like to spend my Saturdays and Friday afternoon knock on their door and ask they what they think . what they think be that they be take for grant by the previous Government for many , many year , but I fear they be concern the new Government be about to repeat that trick . I strongly urge they not to . farming be the backbone of the economy in place like North Shropshire . whether farm arable land or dairy herd , people have have an incredibly challenging time , not just because of the phasing out of the basic payment scheme and the botched transition to the sustainable farming incentive , but because farmer with breeding herd try to export to Europe have be badly let down by the botched Brexit deal . there be no timetable on the horizon for a phytosanitary agreement to resolve that issue ; I urge the Government to act at pace to resolve it for farmer who need to export abroad . the change to the inheritance tax threshold have be very badly communicate to farmer . accord to the Government ' s figure , 288 farm in North Shropshire will be affect . many of the farmer have be in touch with I , and they be extremely concerned , because they need more support not high tax . if those farmer be wrong , I think the Government need to accept that their communication with they need to be a great deal well , because at present they be very concerned . I urge the Government not to adopt a high - handed tone but to listen to and engage with they . farmer be also concerned because of flooding . they have have an extremely challenging time , with 18 month of continuous wet weather . many in my constituency who lose a whole field or a large area last year be still unable to re - till follow an appalling October , but in Shropshire we have not be eligible for either the farming recovery fund or the frequently flood allowance , although many of my constituent be underwater , reliably , every single year . I therefore urge the Government , when they look at flood defence spending , to consider those who be be clobber by the weather year in , year out but have so far be ineligible to receive the support that they need to recover . I also urge the Government to think about how the sustainable farming incentive might be use to encourage farmer to hold water upstream . an hon . member — I apologise for forget which one — mention reservoir ; I urge the Government to consider build that issue into their plan , so that water can be manage effectively for the farmer who have have such an appalling time over the last 18 month . Healthcare be problematic in rural area . because ours be not big university hospital , it be difficult to attract staff to come and work in they — they be not necessarily look at a glitter career investigate all sort of exciting condition — which mean our health service be much bad than those elsewhere in the country . when I be elect , the problem of ambulance waiting time be the top issue that people raise on the doorstep , and it remain awful . October be the third bad month on record for handover delay at West Midlands ambulance service . last week one of my constituent have to wait 24 hour in pain on a plastic chair before be diagnose with heart difficulty . every month over 2 , 000 patient spend more than 12 hour in the A & E department of Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust . we must address the important issue of the recruitment and retention of health staff in rural area . obviously , the Budget have raise the question of how healthcare provider will handle the increase nic . that be probably an issue for a separate debate , but I urge those in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to liaise with their colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care and discuss how we can get staff into rural area and ensure that people have the same outcome as those in the rest of the country , because at present they be be poorly serve . People need to have access to healthcare , as well as education and work opportunity , but transport be a huge problem , and that be kill off the high street . accord to the jobcentre in Oswestry , the single big issue be the inability of worker to get back into work because public transport be so poor that they can not access a place of work . Shropshire have lose 63 % of its bus mile since 2015 , while the national average be 19 % . that will give member some idea of how difficult it be for we . in the Budget , the Government do not mention public transport investment in rural area . I strongly urge the Minister to address that with his colleague and , in particular , to consider really good scheme such as the Oswestry - Gobowen railway line , and the desperate public transport desert that be Market Drayton . I have very little time , so I will just say this . the Government must make sure that the share rural network be deliver and be effective , but if it be not , they must ensure that people can roam between network . local council must be fairly fund so that the cost of deliver service over a vast area be reflect in the funding settlement that they receive . when it come to healthcare , transport and digital service , rural area be struggle , and we must have — order . let I begin by pay tribute to our rural community , on this Armistice Day , for their effort in both the principal war of the last century . we know that those war shape our rural community . they ask a lot of the countryside , and indeed the farming that we see today be very much impact and shape by the event of the conflict at the beginning of the last century . I thank the Government for hold this important debate on rural affair . as we have hear , there be a rich seam of topic to discuss , include public transport , connectivity , the appalling state of rural NHS dentistry and the depletion of the wildlife in our countryside . later this evening , the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) have an important Adjournment debate on mental health in rural area , and I congratulate she on secure it . I want to talk briefly about rural crime , because many of we will have constituent who have be affect by it . what I have find most shocking recently , in Macclesfield and in Cheshire as a whole , be the potential link to the war in Ukraine . since 2022 there have be an increase in , particularly , the theft of GPS unit from Cheshire ' s farm vehicle by organise gang from eastern Europe , and the result insurance claim for the unit increase by 137 % last year alone . each one of those unit cost a staggering £ 20 , 000 . farmer use they to guide tractor , combine harvester and other machinery to improve accuracy . it be now fear that they be be steal and reconfigure as hardware in guidance system be use in war in the other side of the continent . cheshire ' s police and crime commissioner have specifically draw attention to the direct correlation between the vast increase in theft and the start of the war in Ukraine . I commend the Government for institute a cross - governmental rural crime strategy , but , along with other member who speak about this early , I call on they to do more to improve the security of essential farm equipment by work with manufacturer , because that be a practical measure that we can take . we need not only immobilisation technology but forensic marking on this gear , so that it can be track through the labyrinth of organise criminal gang . I hope , have draw attention to this practical and salient issue , that we have a chance not only to stop the rural crime that be damage our community and cost they a great deal of money — I believe that more than £ 4 million be shell out by National Farmers Union insurer last year — but to stop the illegal flow of system fuel a war in another part of our continent . some 88 % of my constituency be hill , wood or farmland . it be the " Vale of Little Dairies " , in Thomas Hardy ' s phrase . it be a mosaic of farm , both family - own and estate and many of they tenant , punctuate by village and market town . I would willingly swap my inbox with that of the hon . member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) — who be no long in the Chamber — because her constituency , like those of many Labour Members , seem to be full of farmer who be , with a spring in their step , welcome the wonderful , halcyon field that the Government be offer they . let I make again a point that I make in an intervention early . I be still at a loss as to how farmer be suppose to be rejoice , as we be tell they be by so many Labour Members , with all this record investment and expenditure in rural area , when they be be tell by the Secretary of State that they must do more with less . you can have one or the other , Madam Deputy Speaker , but you can not have both . many of my right hon . and hon . friend have speak very authoritatively about the taxation change . I be fundamentally opposed to what the Government be try to do because of the damage that it will cause , in the long term , in constituency such as mine and many other — particularly , but not exclusively , in the south - west . it also concern I that many Labour Members have be tell that the money raise will give they an oncology centre in every constituency , and that other wonderful thing be go to happen . in fact , this be just a round of drink when it come the amount of money that it will generate in taxation for what may be require by the health service or by education , so I say to the House , " please do not fall for that old chestnut . " the Minister and I work very closely together on the Agriculture Act 2020 and on trade issue . now be the opportunity — I have be very clear that we have opportunity over the last few year , but they be not deliver for a whole variety of reason , include covid , Ukraine and other thing that we all know about — to have some serious , grow - up think about rural - proof policy , because , as other have mention , the delivery of public service in our rural area be more expensive . our population be sparse , and our community be far flung . as the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) say , we do not have big teaching hospital and so forth . the Home Office need to give proper consideration to rural - proof the funding formula for rural policing , and likewise with the fire service . we have the rural service delivery grant , and I hope that the Minister and his departmental colleague be strongly make the case to both the Treasury and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government that the rural service delivery grant be vital for enable rural local government to deliver the service that our community be look for . in an early contribution to the debate , reference be make to the entirely urban - centric rubric of Environment Agency funding decision when it come to flooding . it effectively boil down to how many chimney benefit from the investment . the large the community — by definition , the more urban or metropolitan — the more likely they be to be successful in a bid , compare with a scheme that will benefit many hundred of acre of prime farmland but possibly only 200 or 300 household . there need to be rural - proofing . my hon . friend be hit the nail on the head . in my speech , I mention that Tadcaster be unable to get rid of the surface water . that affect a few business , but the whole town be destroy by those business not be able to reopen and have insurance problem , despite the fact that there be not enough house under the Environment Agency ' s plan . the point that the Environment Agency have to take notice of is , where do the economy build from ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . then we can think about the impact on insurance premium , which will close business and put householder out of the insurance market , with the exception of the scheme that the previous Government introduce . all these thing have knock - on effect . I think the Minister and his departmental colleague have sympathy with the point I want to make . across Government — it be not just his Department — the funding formula and the rubric that decide where these thing go need to have a far more digital , contemporary account of the challenge in deliver service in our rural area . it be an issue that I have bang on about in this place in the nearly 10 year that I have serve my community of North Dorset , and I will continue to talk about it because that be the right thing to do . I hope that there be sympathy for that argument on both side of the House . many member have refer to access to housing . a lot of my constituent have invest in rental property and so on , but we all know that quite a lot of housing in rural area be old . it could be in a conservation area , it could be list or it could be thatch — it could be all of those thing . People be try to meet the EPC regulation for rental property , which be put huge , artificial and urban - centric pressure on the rural rental housing market . the Prime Minister recently launch a very welcome initiative about skill . again , I urge that a bespoke channel of work be carve out that look at how we skill young people in rural area . we suffer from a young person ' s diaspora too often : the elderly retire to an area , and the young move away . property price go up , and people will only come back as and when they able to inherit something — that is , of course , on the presumption that the Treasury have not take everything by that point and that the only thing they be able to inherit be a very small part of the family grave plot , although that might be tax as well . I would urge a ruralisation of this area . I will mention two other thing , both of which begin with " d " . hon . member on both side of the House have mention dentistry . there have be too many nascent plan for a revival and renaissance of dentistry over the year . for reason that I can not understand , none have come to fruition , save for the entirely skewed and bogus funding formula for dentist . all government we d themselves to do something ; I just hope that something will be do . the other issue be drive test . it be very hard to get a drive test in rural area , which deprive young people of access to work , and to college and learning . in this debate on rural affair , it be not just about the proposal for change the way farmer be tax . it be about the whole mosaic and rich tapestry of rural life , of which this Government currently find themselves the custodian . historically , the Labour party have always be urban - centric , but it now have some rural seat . I hope that the Front Benchers listen to rural member , hear the concern that we , too , be hear , and actually make some progress towards make life in our rural area a little well . I thank the Secretary of State for his remark , and I particularly welcome his warm word on clean up our river , grow the rural economy and investing in flood defence . my constituent in Bolton West be extremely proud of our river , stream , waterway and lake . they bring life to our countryside , and play a crucial role in preserve our biodiversity and fight climate change — a danger all too real , give the increase in flooding and wildfire on the moor in my constituency . with that in mind , I wish to focus on access to our waterway and our countryside . I be sure that colleague will agree that I have the pleasure of represent the most beautiful constituency in the country , with Rivington , Winter Hill and the west Pennine moor all on our doorstep . that be why I be proud to say that the Labour party have a long history and prove track record of give people freedom to enjoy our countryside , include through the National Parks Act and Access to the Countryside Act 1949 . indeed , the House will note that 2024 be the 75th anniversary of this seminal piece of legislation , and that Labour Governments also introduce the groundbreaking Countryside Act 1968 and the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 . however , more than 20 year after the CROW Act be pass , access to nature be under threat . the benefit of access to both the countryside and our waterway be well document . physical inactivity be associate with one in six death in the UK ; accord to the " outdoors for all " campaign , it be estimate to cost we £ 7 . 4 billion every year . obesity cost the UK £ 58 billion , and poor mental health cost the UK between £ 53 billion and £ 56 billion . that be why I welcome the Government ' s commitment to get 3 . 5 million more people active by 2030 through their " get active " strategy and , likewise , their commitment to give the public access to green and blue space within a 15 - minute walk of home through the environmental improvement plan , which be highly commendable . currently , however , 19 . 6 million people do not enjoy that privilege . I draw the Minister ' s attention to the " outdoors for all " campaign , which be run by a coalition of 51 organisation , range from the National Trust and sport national governing body such as Paddle UK to the British Mountaineering Council and the Wildlife Trust . the campaign ' s excellent manifesto call for an extension of the public ' s open access right to the countryside and to water . when it come to recreation , the UK be truly a pioneer both in and on the water . indeed , 7 . 5 million people be estimate to have go paddle in 2023 . million more row , sail and swim . however , access to our nation ' s waterway be woefully inadequate compare with almost every nation in Europe and around the globe . the current policy of pursue piecemeal voluntary access arrangement be plainly unworkable , because a river might cut through thousand of property . how can one authority be expect to negotiate simultaneously with thousand of landowner and on behalf of the public ? how can local arrangement provide the same clarity that our right - of - way network grant walker , give that arrangement may differ from river to river , boundary to boundary , and riverbank to riverbank ? with more people than ever paddle and swim for health and wellbeing , we have to reconsider our approach . the Secretary of State have repeatedly commit to expand responsible access , and the labour manifesto commit to nine new river walk . I would very much welcome more information on those in due course . it be high time for a White Paper on access to nature , include on our waterway . I hope that the Minister will consider that , and I would be happy to meet he or she to discuss it far . I be aware of intensive lobbying by some landowner who see access to water or the countryside as an infringement on property right . to those people I say : these space belong to all of we . a strong code of responsible access — such as the paddler ' code , develop by Paddle UK and Natural England — would mitigate harm and disturbance to our precious environment . after all , look at all the work that recreational user , include paddler , swimmer , rower , angler and sailor , have do to campaign for clean water , to clear plastic pollution , and to tackle invasive non - native specie . in many case , recreational user be the custodian of our nation ' s waterway . our ire should be direct at those responsible for the industrial - scale pollution in the water sector , and for the systemic run - off of chemical into our waterway . do my hon . friend — like many member across the House , I be sure — support the idea of a bathing status award for water quality ? yes , I think there be considerable merit to make sure that not only our inland water but our coastal water be accredit with viable bathing status . that bring I to my second topic . for year , under the previous Conservative Government , water company have be pump sewage into our river and lake with little fear of consequence . we live in a country where parent think twice about let their child surf , swim or paddle , for fear of they contract all manner of disease , some of they life - threaten , and that be frankly unacceptable . surfer against Sewage have do tremendous work in hold polluter to account , and I draw the Minister ' s attention to its " end Sewage Pollution " manifesto . since 2019 , under the Conservatives , untreated sewage have be discharge into our water over 1 million time , and that require real punishment for those who flout the rule . to that end , I very much welcome the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which I hope will introduce new penalty for water company and block bonus for water boss , who have all too often turn a blind eye to the damage that their firm have do to our waterway . to conclude , I ask the Minister for three simple thing on behalf of my constituent : clean up our water ; give we access to it ; and invest to tackle flooding . rise — we will go down to a five - minute time limit after the next speaker . I call Graham Leadbitter . first , I commend the maiden speaker in the House today . there have be some excellent maiden speech . I particularly like the reference by the hon . member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) to Tolkien , of whom I be a big fan , but today we be talk less about the bounteousness of the Hobbit ' s Shire and more about need a wizard to figure out how the Budget be good for farmer . like many member across the House represent rural area , I have receive significant correspondence from those on family farm , and from industry representative such as the National Farmers Union of Scotland . the change to inheritance tax and agricultural property relief have send a wave of despair through the farming community , give the impact on family farm . Labour Members have refer to farmer have time to do financial planning , but significant sum of money will have to be put aside ; if we be talk about pension , we would say that people need 10 , 15 or 20 year to change their financial plan in that way . the NFUS have give the example of a family farm worth £ 4 million . the vast majority of that value be tie up in farm building , machinery and livestock . a family member inherit the farm could be liable for a £ 600 , 000 tax bill — a demand enforceable by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , with £ 60 , 000 due within six month . let we be clear that for many people , the only way to cover that would be to sell off building , machinery or stock . that may inherently make the farm financially unviable and put the whole business at risk of failure . a farm owner may choose to protect their family farm asset by sell off tenant land , create huge financial uncertainty for tenant farmer , and give many cause to question whether it be worth continue in farming . food security be national security , but these measure be increase uncertainty and insecurity for hard - work farming family — and in most farm , the whole family be work it together . a constituent write to I to say that APR be not a loophole , as have be suggest , but a targeted and necessary relief design to support multi - generational business , food production and economic growth . a second issue of real significance to my constituency be whisky tax . that might not immediately jump to mind when we think about rural affair , but the vast majority of the 48 distillery in my constituency be in rural area . the supply chain for those whisky distillery be in rural area ; these be rural job . if the increase in whisky tax reduce sale , that reduce investment . those 48 distillery range from big corporate such as Diageo through to small independent , and even a community - run distillery ; I recently have the pleasure of be at its opening . the supply chain include farmer produce grain — this be a double whammy for farmer in my constituency , as many of they produce grain for the distillery — as well as mechanical engineer , process engineer , haulier , maltster , plumber , joiner , gardener , tour guide and those work in retail and hospitality . all those job be in rural area , and they be a lifeline source of well - pay , good employment for many rural community in Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey . a third impact that I want to touch on be forestry . here I can maybe throw the Minister a bone , have have a bit of a go about the first two issue . on forestry , I think we have a lot in common . we want to see more housing build ; I be very supportive of that . I also support the need to see progress on sustainable aviation fuel . both of those rely on significant investment in forestry . there be a serious issue about the availability of new wood beyond 2035 , and if we be to achieve progress on sustainable aviation fuel and house building , that need to be in the balance . Forestry need to be in balance with the rest of our agricultural land need . I urge the Minister to commit to a statement on the future of forestry beyond 2035 , in order to support those two objective , which , as I say , I believe we share . I congratulate those who make their maiden speech this afternoon . my constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar have a significant rural area , particularly through west Fife and Clackmannanshire . while rural area often face different challenge from urban area , the concern be often the same . they include access to health , education , transport and other public service , so while this debate be about rural affair , we must always be careful to ensure that we tackle the different challenge face in rural area with thoughtful consideration and sensitivity , and without create division with those who live in urban and suburban area . I begin by mention concern that farmer in my community have raise about change in the Budget to agricultural property relief . along with five Scottish Labour colleague and Conservatives and Liberal Democrats , I be recently able to meet NFU Scotland and have a constructive conversation on that and other issue . it be disappointing , however , that no one from the Scottish National party be able to attend . constructive engagement , rather than the often misleading and divisive rhetoric we have see from some conservative Members , will always be appreciate by our farming community . I be await further information from NFUS , but I believe that it understand the intention of the policy that have be announce , and our eagerness to work with it and other to support scottish farmer . my constituency include former coalmine village such as High Valleyfield , Oakley and Blairhall . their rurality , along with high level of deprivation , present unique challenge . bus service be irregular and unreliable , make access to healthcare difficult . it can take more than an hour to get to Dunfermline by bus , a journey that take just 15 minute by car . similarly , without a car it be next to impossible to access train or bus service to city such as Edinburgh or Glasgow , while the lack of service after 6 pm in some area mean that park - and - ride option be not viable for those who want to commute by public transport . live in rural area present a further difficulty in access health service . bus to either Forth Valley hospital near Falkirk or Victoria hospital in Kirkcaldy can take more than an hour , so get to an appointment at a specific time without a car be difficult and very disruptive to day - to - day life . the community in High Valleyfield experience this just over a year ago , when the breast screen van be withdraw . People be then require to travel to Dunfermline , a journey of more than two hour each way . sadly , I hear of woman of all age no long make their appointment , and I do not think anyone in this House would want that . at a recent surgery in Dollar , I be tell of the incredible challenge in access hospital transport service ; the excessive bureaucracy and other barrier disadvantage people live in rural area . although fail transport infrastructure cause challenge , digital infrastructure be similarly problematic and be not the panacea for accessibility that it be sometimes herald as be . rural area suffer from delay in get broadband infrastructure . Openreach be very excited to bring cabinet service to the village of Blairhall in my constituency . everyone be look forward to it , and it be complete — other than for seven house on one street , where Openreach decide it be not commercially viable to introduce the service . the SNP ' s r100 programme , already delay and over budget , will eventually get to deliver this upgrade , but not until 2026 or 2027 . after the pandemic , increase number of tourist have seek to take advantage of the beauty to be find in rural Scotland . tourist increasingly visit Culross , a village in my constituency where movie and tv show such as " Outlander " be film . as we approach Christmas , the House might be interested to know that much of the film " Christmas in Scotland " be film in this beautiful village . but , of course , this bring its own pressure , as thousand of visitor and hundred of tour bus visit Culross each week . I be delighted that Fife council be work with the excellent and very active Culross community council on these issue , but we must balance the need of visitor with the need of , and impact on , the local community . I could go on and on about the fantastic rural community in my constituency , but I will end with my commitment to continue to champion and advocate for the different need , priority and consideration of our rural community throughout my time in this House . there be many issue I could raise in such an important debate on rural affair , but in their budget a couple of week ago , the Labour Government introduce a new threat on such a scale that it simply must be the topic on which I open my remark . as I say in last week ' s Budget debate , the change to agricultural property relief be a threat to family farm and rural community across the country , include in Mid Buckinghamshire . I can not believe that Mid Buckinghamshire farmer be so different from the farmer find in labour - hold constituency , but many of the farmer who have contact I be absolutely petrified about what the change mean for the future of their farm . they tell I that they may even have to sell up to a third of their farm to meet their inheritance tax bill . there be no way to sugar - coat this : it will be the end of british family farming if these change be allow to go through . when I give my maiden speech on Second Reading of the Agriculture Bill in the last Parliament , the now Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs , who be then a shadow Minister , kindly say in sum up that I be " every Cambridge leftie ' s nightmare " , and I agree . I gently suggest that , if he do not talk to farmer , to the NFU and to the people who be petrify about what these change will mean , he may well become the nightmare of every farmer in this country . it may be that I be be generous , but I think this be happen because Labour Members have a patchy understanding of the issue . it be easy for those who do not understand rural Britain or agriculture to assume that asset and income be the same thing , but my hon . friend will know that many farmer with considerable paper wealth do not actually make that much money . my right hon . friend be absolutely right that british farming do not operate on mega margin . our farmer do not have ten of thousand , hundred of thousand or million of pound in the bank . they operate on such tight margin that , even if we play devil ' s advocate and accept the Government ' s argument — which , for the record , I do not — most farmer in this position will struggle to pay a tax bill of hundred of thousand of pound over a 10 - year period . the margin simply be not there . of course , there be many thing that we can and should do to increase the profitability of farming , but it be fanciful to pretend that a 10 - year payback period would be anywhere near enough . it would symbolise the end of british farming . of course , that be not the only threat to british farming in the Budget . there be the attack on basic equipment such as pick - up truck , whereby farmer face pay an extra £ 5 , 000 simply for have the audacity to want back seat for their child . then there be the carbon tax , which will see the cost of fertiliser rise by between £ 50 and £ 75 a tonne , which will have a detrimental impact on either farmer ’ margin or food price , or potentially both . across the country , either outcome would be devastating . other member have speak about rural crime , about which I too be incredibly frustrated . I intervene to ask the Secretary of State about this subject . after be lucky enough to come quite high in the 2022 private Member ' s Bill ballot , I spend two and a half year promote my Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 , which require immobiliser on quad bike and high - standard forensic marking , include GPS unit , on agricultural equipment . it require the passage of a statutory instrument that the then Policing Minister and now shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , say be ready to go when the general election be call , but it be thwart by the Dissolution of Parliament . the Act be pass with the Labour party ' s support . Labour Members do not howl it down or attack it on Second Reading , in Committee or on Third Reading in either House . it be not as if the Act be in any way controversial . we just need the statutory instrument to be pass to give the police the power they need . Police officer like Superintendent Andy Huddleston , who be the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead on rural crime , say that these power will make a huge difference . I have raise this matter with the Home Secretary and the Leader of the House . I doubt that this simple SI would cause any controversy for any party or any Member of this House . why can the Government not introduce the statutory instrument ? I take their desire to tackle rural crime at face value , so why do they not get the ball roll on pass this legislation ? every time I meet a police officer from Thames Valley Police or anywhere I go in the country , the first thing they ask be , " what be happen with your Act ? " I can not answer that question , because I just do not know the reason for the Government ' s delay . I appeal to the Minister to work with his Home Office colleague to find a way to get the Act function . finally , this Government ' s approach to planning and energy be cause devastation across our rural community . my constituency have be plague by so many ground - mount solar application — the large one be Rosefield in the Claydons . these project take away agricultural land , take away the ability to produce food and in many case displace farmer , include tenant farmer . and what for ? it be an inefficient technology that require thousand of acre of agricultural land , when other technology , such as small modular reactor , which require the equivalent of just two football pitch , can produce far more energy . I urge the farming Minister or the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to go into battle with the Energy Secretary and the Deputy Prime Minister on these planning change , so that we can have a sensible approach to our countryside and keep it for what it be good at : the production of food . we have have an excellent and varied debate that perfectly illustrate the variety and colour of rural life in our country today . I want to concentrate on one aspect of rural life that blight the life of people who live in rural north Cumbria , in my constituency , and across all of the UK : rural crime . I congratulate the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) on his work on this issue . I will certainly support he in try to ensure that that statutory instrument be bring forward . rural crime , be it sheep rustle , fly - tipping or the theft of vehicle or equipment , have exactly the same impact on the community and individual it affect : it have a huge financial repercussion on everyone whose livelihood rely on livestock and machinery for the generation of their income . it leave rural community feel vulnerable and fearful for their personal safety . however , despite that financial and personal cost , it be a fact that rural crime rise under the last government . NFU mutual ' s figure show that there be a 4 . 3 % increase in crime in 2023 , push the cost of rural crime to a shocking figure of over £ 52 million . in my own county of Cumbria , rural theft cost an estimate £ 815 , 000 — a rise of 12 % on the previous year . it be clear that criminal gang have be able to take advantage of the hole leave in rural frontline policing , as a direct result of cut to rural police force under the last government , to target farmyard and field across Britain . rural crime be no long the preserve of the opportunist thief . instead , we now see internationally organise criminal activity , with gang that target high value farm machinery and gps kit , know that they can be sell all over the world . that degree of serious organise crime demand a serious , organised response , and I be pleased that it be this Government that be deliver that response in the form of a cross - governmental rural crime strategy . in Cumbria , our new labour police , fire and crime commissioner be commit to build on the work of our dedicated rural crime team , which recently mark its first anniversary . during that year , the team recover steal property worth £ 820 , 000 , cut quad bike theft by 10 % and make dozen of arrest . more importantly , that same team engage directly with rural community , make over 200 visit to victim of rural crime . if I can be helpful to the hon . Lady , the critical thing be to get the police funding formula review . it disadvantage county like Cumbria and Lincolnshire , and have do for year . no Government , Labour or Conservative , have deal with that . will she join I in write to the Minister , and perhaps to the Treasury , to suggest that we do just that in order to prioritise rural area like hers and mine ? I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . as we have hear , fund for rural community affect not just crime and policing , but the availability of GPs , healthcare and dentistry . if anyone on the conservative Benches would like to explain to my constituent why they have to go on a 100 mile round trip to register with an NHS dentist , I would happily take that intervention . on the point about personalised engagement with rural community , I draw the House ' s attention to the dedication of one particular rural police officer in my constituency : pc Susan Holliday . I should declare that Susan and I have be friend for over 50 year , and she have spend 37 of those year as a special constable in Cumbria constabulary , clock up over 5 , 000 hour in her own time in the last decade alone , and exhaust every possible long - service award available to she as a special constable and that she be entitle to . herself a farmer , Susan be integral to the setting up of Cumbria constabulary ' s farm watch scheme , and she be well known to the rural community across the north of my constituency . sadly , the excellent work of officer like Susan be too often undermine by the cut to frontline policing that we see in 14 year of chaotic Conservative Government . those 14 year see the closure of rural police station and the diversion of officer away from their rural beat to plug the gap in police in our town and city centre . it be not before time that we finally have a Government that will back our frontline rural police officer with a rural crime strategy . that strategy will increase police patrol in rural area , have tough measure to clamp down on antisocial behaviour and have strong law to prevent farm theft , fly - tipping and drug dealing . I be delighted that this Government will deliver the rural crime strategy that community like mine in north Cumbria so desperately need . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I live on our family farm and declare an interest as a member of the Ulster Farmers Union . as most member be aware , I represent a rural constituency with a thriving agrifood sector . we grow it , we package it and we sell it . I dare say that most right hon . and hon . member in this House will have sample what Strangford have to offer . for instance , the potato grow in my constituency go all over Great Britain . I be pleased that those potato be a protect product ; they be protect under EU law when we be in the EU , and they be protect now as well . Lakeland Dairies supply milk to London hotel and to aeroplane . my neighbour ' s farm supply milk to that dairy , whose processing plant be a huge employer in my large town , Newtownards . Willowbrook Foods and Mash Direct supply convenient prepacke good to shop throughout the UK and far afield . Rich Sauces produce condiment that be ship globally . all of those local business be do our national business , and we be all the well for it . sometimes it be well to promote those good within the great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland together , so when the Minister sum up , will he give I some idea about how that can be do ? I know he be committed to that , but I be keen for Hansard to have it on the record . the rural economy in Northern Ireland be our mainstay . our focus in this place be not simply to allow it to survive , but to allow it to thrive far . all of those business have the potential to do more . farming be the big industry in Northern Ireland , with 75 % of land use for agriculture . there be some 25 , 000 farm business in Northern Ireland and some 48 , 000 job , which provide £ 1 . 7 billion of value add to the Northern Ireland economy , which be 3 . 5 % of the total gross value add . with great respect to colleague on the Conservative Benches and across the Chamber , the equivalent figure for the whole of the UK be 2 % , so for we in Northern Ireland , what happen with agriculture be crucial and critical . the gross output of agriculture in 2020 be £ 2 . 2 billon , while the gross output of food and drink processing be £ 5 . 4 billion . the ripple effect be even great , estimate at almost £ 5 billion when we account for the indirect contribution to a wide variety of sector , include construction and hospitality . my party will continue to ask for the remain problem with the Northern Ireland protocol to be address . again that be not the Minister ' s direct responsibility , but I ask he to pass that on to the relevant Minister . the problem include the fact that because of state aid restriction , business operate in primary agriculture and horticulture , fish processing , aquaculture and bio - base fuel be not eligible to apply for the agrifood investment initiative , which have be design to support business in Northern Ireland who have additional shipping and transportation cost , and cost due to economy of scale , that make competition more difficult . I would really appreciate a response on that point . I like to be constructive and positive if I can in my comment . there be still business that can not apply for the support due to the restriction and that must be tackle . I look to the Minister to liaise with Cabinet colleague to secure UK food security by secure agrifood in Northern Ireland . the Minister know that I respect he greatly , but I have to say that the Government have get the inheritance tax issue wrong . shrink farm by require they to sell 20 % of the farm land to pay inheritance tax be not the way to promote food security or indeed to allow we to be self - sustain . I repeat my call for a rethink of this brutal tax reform , which actively harm not simply our farming community but anyone who buy british good in the shop . over the weekend a local estate agent tell I — I be not make this up — that multiple farm have already request a valuation to be carry out of the field that they will not farm but keep to sell to pay the tax bill . there be already a knock - on effect . the Secretary of State kindly make I an offer , and I will take he up on it . I have already contact the Ulster Farmers ' Union to put the appointment in place . Northern Ireland lead the way in farming and the message be clear : release the chokehold and support we or our land will go for planning house , and we will give up family farm treasure for century to pay the highway man . as one farmer say to I , " they aren ' t come for the family silver as we don ' t have any . we only have the ability to grow food and they be take that not from our family alone , but from every family in this United Kingdom . " that be wrong . I will never get tired of say how proud I be to represent rural community in York Outer , especially when it come to food production . from carrot to chicken , or parsnip to pig , if there be a perfect place in the country to see your dinner go from farm to fork , look no far than York . now then , on the topic of Yorkshire folk , we be a hard - work bunch . I be a prime example , try to squeeze my Yorkshire dialect into Hansard . in all seriousness , there be few hard worker than our farmer , fame for hard graft , which be why I have be spend so much time engage with they across York Outer . I have be to several farm in my constituency , and I have meet my local NFU , but I know that support rural community mean focus on the long term , not just the here and now . that be why I will focus my comment on flooding , biosecurity and mental health — three vital cross - party issue that we can tackle together . it be well know that we suffer from flooding in York , with two river — the Foss and the Ouse — in our city . when they overflow , they devastate community and crop . the use of agricultural land be a hot topic in the House , but in York persistent flooding be a big driver of the loss of land . I will depart from party politic for a second , because I know that my predecessor in York from all party have do a good job locally on flooding , and I intend to do the same . that be why I have already have some positive chat with the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) . our Government be do good work on flooding . I welcome the £ 60 million that the Secretary of State rapidly release for community last month , and the investment of more than £ 2 . 4 billion over two year in flood resilience . the issue with flooding in the past be that we have need a quick release of fund , and I hope that will be a priority for the Government . the big issue for I nationally be biosecurity . this week , I will visit the Animal and Plant Health Agency in my capacity as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for food security . whether it be the new H5N5 variant of avian influenza — which be incredibly contagious — the recent outbreak of bluetongue or african swine fever , these be all real risk that our farmer tell I they be worry about . that matter to I too , not least with recent avian influenza case report in Yorkshire . I have a wonderful bacon sarnie at Wilson ' s farm . from the butter to the bap to the bacon , it be all locally produce , and that send I an important message . the Government must buy local when it come to procurement . school dinner must be local . we must promote british farming , include in this place where we could purchase more british farming product . we also need to do more to end farmwashing . some of the farmer in my patch be tell I about quite deceptive food packaging , with red , white and blue , and tractor logo that narrowly get through advertising regulation , only for customer to turn the back of the packet and see that the product come from a farm in Spain , Ireland or elsewhere . we have to sort that . I congratulate the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) on securing tonight ' s Adjournment debate on farmer ' mental health . when consider the future of the NHS , it be so important that we not only fix the waiting list and implement the reform need but always think of our cherish rural community . food security be national security , and mental health be just as important as physical health . that be why I be always willing , as all of we in this place be , to talk to farmer about what they be go through . rural community vote for change early this year . that be why there be many Labour mp who be hard - work advocate for their rural community — as passionate as I be . thankfully , the Government have have a strong start . these topic have a big impact on my constituent . my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) invite the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs to Cumbria ; I invite he to stop at York along the way to discuss some of these hugely important topic . I will always be a champion for our rural community , and I will work cross - party on many of the issue that I have mention . rural community form the backbone of our country . they grow the food that feed british family , they be the custodian of our beautiful countryside , and they be home to fantastic village pub such as the Knife & Cleaver in Houghton Conquest , the Crown in Shillington and the Anchor in Aspley Guise — a shameless plug for three of my fantastic pub . we all know that fantastic british pub be the heart of our village , but I be concerned that they will now struggle to stand still , never mind invest and give youngster the opportunity of their first job , give the Government ' s choice to tax job and work people . pub across my constituency have tell I of their concern , and I tell they that I would raise they today on the Floor of the House . the problem that we face in rural community be a world away from those face by hon . friend in urban area . we suffer from similar crime to urban area , with particular problem around fly - tipping , wildlife crime and rural theft . member throughout the House have speak about those issue at length . I urge the Government to ensure that rural community be not overlook in favour of urban area when they allocate police funding . that be certainly a concern of my constituent , who see police resource soak up by the high demand in neighbour large town . in part of my constituency , the benefit of work from home be limit by poor - quality broadband , which limit the growth prospect of some of our brilliant local entrepreneur and family business . Project Gigabit must be deliver at pace , and I will support any measure and effort to do that . bus service be often infrequent and unreliable , and unfortunately under this government they be get more expensive . inequality extend beyond transport ; access to healthcare be challenging , particularly if people can not or do not drive . I be keen to ensure that my community have well access to local healthcare , which be an ambition of the Government . we need to do more in this Parliament to ensure that primary care reach into our village and hamlet , and that no one be leave without the healthcare they need because of where they live . as the Government consider their plan to build the community of the future , I hope they will learn from our village . decade — century , even — of sympathetic development have create community : place that people want to live and spend time in . we must ensure that the legacy we leave for future generation include sustainable and beautiful home , with the right service and good access to the countryside . such be my hon . friend ' s insight that he have draw together two fundamental issue . over - development in rural area place immense pressure on infrastructure such as healthcare provision , as he describe . do he agree that development should be incremental , so that no community change beyond recognition , or can no long be serve by the kind of public service that be critical to wellbee ? I entirely agree . a lot be say about sustainable development in planning rule . I know from my community that lot of people feel quite aggrieved by large new development be build on the edge of village , fundamentally change their character . there be more work to do to ensure that our village grow slowly and sustainably , alongside infrastructure . lesson should be learn from the many decade of mistake . that bring I to another point . we must ensure that our village be not overwhelm by suburban dormitory . I be afraid that even though they be rural , some of my community have be turn into dormitory by house building . People sleep there but head elsewhere to work , so they do not contribute to our local community as they would have do in the past . often , at the heart of our rural community be a group of unsung people — although they have be much mention today — who look after our countryside , employ local people and ensure that every single person in this country have food on their table . they be , of course , our farmer . british farmer might not always seek the spotlight — although sometimes they have show on Amazon Prime — but without they we would be a much poor country and our rural community would be significantly bad off . we should do all we can to support british farmer and nurture the next generation of they , but instead the Government be regrettably levy a spiteful family farm tax on they . I meet farmer in Mid Bedfordshire recently . it be clear that the attack on family farm will force many family to sell up to developer or big international farming corporation , rip the soul out of our rural community . for the long - term sustainability of rural community up and down the country , I urge the Government to reconsider the damaging family farm tax . before I call the next speaker , I inform the House that I be now impose a four - minute time limit . I thank the Government for so guilelessly bring forward such a broad debate allow those of we with rural constituency to make wide - range demand on behalf of the town and village that we represent . I look forward to far inundate Ministers ' in - tray with legion of letter about agriculture in Anstey , school building in Baldock and pothole in Furneux Pelham . however , before I be accuse of be excessively parochial , I will address the wide systemic issue that undermine rural life in this country . fundamentally , the problem face town and village such as those across North East Hertfordshire be that for decade almost every aspect of national life have be increasingly gear towards put profit maximisation before the need of our community . nowhere be that more evident than in our housing sector . rural area must deal again and again with totally unsustainable speculative development dominate by house design to maximise profit , on a scale completely unrelated to local need for organic growth . at the same time , house price have continue to rise — almost always far beyond the reach of those who have grow up locally — rural homelessness have rise by 40 % and local facility have decline . in one of my local town , Buntingford , hundred of new house have be build , yet it have lose its youth centre , the bank , the community swimming pool , a gp surgery , a daycare centre and the local waste disposal site — those facility be all go . the volume of new housing be put such strain on the infrastructure that resident be repeatedly flood by raw sewage . I be afraid it be of little consolation that the big developer , which the Tories allow to force through application on appeal , have be enjoy supernormal profit as a result . the systemic failure be not unique to rural housing . our public transport system be next to non - existent in many village — cut off young adult from opportunity for work and education , and strand old resident in loneliness and isolation — because the only bus service that run under the Tories be those that make profit for shareholder . we expect farmer to steward our land for future generation , but they have — between the monopsonistic power of the major supermarket and the pressure of global commodity market — be push into the absurd position whereby it be increasingly impossible to make a fair living out of feed the nation . all that point to economic policy that have consistently fail to recognise the intrinsic value that my constituent place on the rurality of their community . for too long , economic orthodoxy that be obsess with agglomeration and utilitarian accounting have prove incapable of recognise the social value of invest in less densely populate area . to conclude , give the vast change in political representation of rural area at the recent election , the Government clearly have a unique opportunity and obligation to deliver systemic change that create a future in which our town , village and hamlet thrive as community in their own right . minister have make an important start with policy to refocus house building on deliver new social home , by pave the way for re - regulation of bus service , by deliver the large ever budget for sustainable food production , and with a clear commitment to community energy . today , I urge they to press on far as swiftly as possible by restore service to our town and village and retain their rurality ; by recognise at last that , deplete as it be , the natural capital of our countryside be the well part of the wealth of our nation ; and by redirect investment , lean into the growth of distribute technology and remote working , and deliver a new revolution in cottage industry to once again spread economic opportunity across place such as those I represent . my constituency and its neighbouring village be define by their green space and rurality , provide a sharp contrast to the urban west midland next door . our village be home to rural enterprise and to farmer , and it be our farmer who be the lifeblood of our rural community . their role can not be overstate : not only do they provide we with food security , but they contribute significantly to our local economy , and it be critical that we support they . every single one of we rely on farmer three time a day . they be the guardian of our countryside , often work in isolated or harsh condition , physically and in a competitive marketplace . I be delighted to be participate in the NFU ' s MP fellowship scheme to well understand the pressure that farmer face . the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State promise to protect farmer . they promise not to change inheritance rule , but then in the autumn Budget , among many other broken promise , Labour break its pledge to farmer . it reduce relief and impose inheritance tax rate on farmland , which will devastate family farm and pose a serious risk to domestic food security and food price in our country . not only do those change hurt the agriculture sector and our economy , but they hurt individual farming family , with at least 249 farm affect across my constituency . I want the House to be aware of the specific concern of two of my constituent . one write to I : " this specifically target decision will eventually destroy family farm . it ' s a mentally and physically hard industry to be in but for most have be pass on from previous generation and do it for the love . as an industry we feel we be no long need " . the most impactful email I have receive from a constituent come in late last night . just before my hon . friend come to that impactful email , may I say that he make a fundamentally important point about food security ? food security be vital to national economic resilience , as we have see from the covid pandemic , the war in Ukraine and so on . food security mean maximise the productivity of land , so do my hon . friend agree that another threat that farmer and rural community face be the invasion of large - scale solar development and other industrialisation of the countryside , which be take productive farmland out of the business of produce food and thereby guarantee food security ? I wholeheartedly agree with my right hon . friend . as he rightly point out , we be at risk of large - scale industrial energy production installation become the new cash crop , displace valuable agricultural land across our constituency . I want the House to be aware of a comment from a constituent who write to I last night : " I have never write a personal email to an MP before but feel so strongly about the recent change announce in the budget that I couldn ' t let they go . although on paper we might appear ' rich ' the reality be we only make enough money each year to support … 2 family and don ' t have ' million ' in the bank . we pay our taxis like every other work person do . every spare penny we get we invest in the farm to make it well for the next generation but after the budget announcement last week feel that that be a waste of time . I be begin to think that the good option for my family would to be to sell up and move abroad to a country that appreciate its farmer and food . " that be devastating , and I want the Government to reflect on those word very carefully . I recall the Prime Minister ' s word in his first speech in Downing Street , where he say that he want the Government to " tread more lightly " on our life . sadly , the Government be do anything but ; they be ruthlessly bear down on every facet of british society in the most ideological fashion . I call on they to scrap the family farm tax and instead support british farmer . I also call on the Government to reverse the change to tax on pick - up truck , which be the workhorse of the countryside and of tradesman and woman across the country . although much of the debate have focus on farm , it be important to highlight that there be more to the rural economy than just our farmer . the countryside make up more than 90 % of the UK ' s land . it be home to million of people in our country and it contribute more than £ 270 billion per annum to our economy , from farming and horticulture to stewardship of the land and countryside sport . for our rural economy to thrive there need to be sufficient infrastructure to attract people and business to those area , include further investment in rural connectivity and mobile coverage . finally , our rural economy can not exist if our rural area be develop over . new housing development can not come at the expense of our green belt . some 89 % of land in my constituency be formally designate as green belt , but the target be impose by the Government will directly result in thousand more home be build on high - quality green - belt land in my constituency , which will undermine food security and our rural identity . we must stand up for our rural community and for farmer , and we must protect our countryside . I will always defend farm , the rural economy and our rural area during my time in the House . some 81 % of the land in the area that I represent be agricultural , mean that North West Cambridgeshire , like much of the east of England , contribute a great deal to our country ' s food security . as the Government have repeatedly and rightly say , food security be national security , and I be proud that my constituent play a huge role in that . farmer suffer under the last government . just before the general election , farmer confidence be at its low level since record begin , but this Government be take positive step to reverse that trend . the farming budget for 2025 - 26 will be £ 2 . 4 billion , which be the big budget ever direct at sustainable food production , and will be vital for farmer across the country and in my constituency . for those affect by flood last year , I welcome the immediate £ 60 million make available from the farming recovery fund , which be a big increase compare with the figure under the last Government . I be also glad to hear the Secretary of State clarify early that the " vast majority " of farmer will not be affect by the change to agricultural property relief , and his assurance that the Government will protect family farm by prevent people come from outside and buy farmland over the head of local people to evade taxis . one of the most pressing and significant issue that farmer have raise with I be the income of food producer . the dynamic between buyer and producer need reform , with many producer report that they take under 1 % of profit after retailer and intermediary have take their cut . with more than 95 % of our food sell through just 10 retailer , many feel that some supermarket be not give they a fair deal . I strongly encourage the Government to look at that issue . I also welcome the Secretary of State ' s early comment about ensure that trade deal do not undermine our farmer . for too long , we have allow import of food , both plant and animal product , that have be produce to low standard than we expect of our farmer . that undermine they and tilt the play field towards import food because it prevent they compete on price . we must take action on that . I now turn to rural crime . many of our country ' s rural town have significant problem with crime , with a low police presence follow cut under the last Conservative Government and an under - resource justice system that have not be able to cope . my constituency have several rural town and village , include Ramsey , which have face a string of robbery and knife - relate incident in recent year . although the offender in many of those incident have be arrest and charge — I thank Cambridgeshire police for that — we must resource our police to restore their ability to work on prevention , not just to respond to crisis . the Government stand on a clear pledge to combat crime in our town by bring back neighbourhood and community police with thousand of additional officer . rural town such as Ramsey must get their fair share of that , and I know that the Government be hear that message . transport be also a significant issue , with limited public transport option in Ramsey and other town . People live in rural area often have few option for service , include education , employment and health service , and those who rely on public transport , which can be limited and inconvenient , be at a double disadvantage . timetable decision base on commercial factor mean that child who live in rural area in my constituency struggle to get to school , particularly in the village of Wittering . bus in Cambridgeshire be control by the combine authority and its Labour Mayor . will the hon . member , whose constituency neighbour mine , put pressure on Mayor Johnson to ensure that all our rural community be include in the bus franchising and that we get the service that be desperately need ? as the hon . Member have point out , the Mayor be fail in that respect so far . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . he claim that bus service be under the control of the combine authority , but the problem be that we do not have franchising yet . we be work on that and , in case any of my constituent be listen , the consultation be still open but will close on 20 November , so please fill it in — I just want to get that plug in . in the lead - up to franchising , which will hopefully come through , the combine authority be already work to subsidise essential service and work with commercial company to tackle the issue . I be confident in the work that we be do . I be proud that the Government ' s well bus Bill will deliver the opportunity for franchise to more local authority . I urge the Government to keep make progress on make franchising easy , alongside their progress on nationalise our rail infrastructure , which we hear more about early . Broadband connectivity must be another priority . internet and mobile phone coverage have improve , but the service for people live in rural area still have a long way to go . as of January , 47 % of rural premise have access to gigabit - capable broadband , compare with 84 % of premise in urban area . that have serious implication for productivity , make it hard for people to work from home who would otherwise do so , for example . more widely , it have an impact on the ability to stay in contact with friend and love one who may be far afield . I thank all hon . member across the House for raise so many point today . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . I and resident and visitor alike love North Norfolk . however , we have to be honest about the challenge that rural area like mine face , and about the change and support that we need to tackle they . ten day ago , I have the pleasure of chair a public meeting in the village of Hickling about the flooding issue face the area . we bring together key stakeholder from no few than nine agency to discuss with village how we can prevent the cycle of flooding that have plague the area for year on end . I be delighted to hear those agency ' clear desire to work together in a more join - up way , but they be all resolve on the need for long - term planning . give budget only one year at a time be not good enough for forward planning , let alone for invest in partnership , strategy and skill . the same go for coastal erosion . we be part of the fast - erode coastline in north - west Europe . that erosion have a very real human impact : sadly , Bryony be soon to join the list of Happisburgh resident who have be force to leave their forever home as the coastline erode . she be passionate about make sure that more resident do not find themselves in the heartbreaking situation of lose the home they love to the North sea . local campaign group and council be do what they can to mitigate the effect , but they can not keep to - ing and fro - ing between project funding . we need a join - up strategy along the entire coastline to protect our beautiful environment , our heritage and our way of life , not just the high possible number of chimney pot . bus in our village and market town be the only way many people can make it to work , education , medical appointment or shop and meet their friend and family . we need to radically rethink the delivery of public transport in rural area like mine and create a network that really work for the community it serve . I welcome the Government ' s step forward on bus franchising measure , but Norfolk need great power to deliver change . I really hope that as the Government return to the drawing board — not their fault — on a devolution deal for our area , they will reflect on how give great power to our community to design and deliver service could unlock Norfolk ' s potential . I must mention the deep concern across North Norfolk about the family farm tax include in the Budget . the Secretary of State make a good impression on farmer in Norfolk . " he get it , " they say , and I think he do , so this must be really hard and uncomfortable for he and his team . farmer have be the backbone of North Norfolk for generation — everybody know a farming family or be in one — but they be really worried about their future . other be worried about the impact on our area . I fear that the Government be just not in tune with what be happen to family farm in small area like mine . they must tune into the reality . I be proud to speak up for farmer and farming today , and I will keep do it at every opportunity . I love live in my rural area , and it be a pleasure to raise my child there , but we can not accept half measure on the challenge we face . we need a well rural deal from Government , and dedicate , long - term strategy to protect our rural and coastal place . give the time limit , I can not deliver the magnum opus I write on the train on the way down here , but have be tell in a call with Northumberland county council that one of the school catchment area in my constituency be large than the area surround by the M25 , I think I can speak on rural affair with authority . it have be say to I in my constituency when I have be out and about that we pay more and get less in our community . we go to small shop , so we have to buy thing that be less efficiently price ; and our community be use to be forget . they be use to be under - invest in , and to see their young people leave due to the inability to find an appropriate job and home . one of the real tragedy of the last 14 year have be the conservative party ' s failure to appreciate that , and to invest in those community . I gently invite Conservative member to reflect on the reason why I stand here as the first ever Labour MP for Hexham , and why so many of my party colleague represent rural constituency . it be not just because it be a change election ; it be because the Conservatives fall out of sync with what rural community want and need . I be very proud to be out there work with and meet local civic organisation , such as the Clean Tyne campaign lead by Dr Stephen Westgarth , or sustainable Haltwhistle . I have also sit at the kitchen table with my farmer to talk about the issue with the sustainable farming incentive , and payment scheme that do not really work for upland farmer . I invite the Secretary of State or the Minister responsible for farming to come and meet upland farmer in my constituency , who have really positive story about the work they want to do , but who have be disadvantage and have their hand tie by the legacy we have inherit . I would like briefly to plug my Westminster Hall debate on school transport in Northumberland tomorrow . although I will be speak about school transport in that county , I would very much welcome participant from across the country , as I know that get to school and access a great state education be fundamental for everyone . finally , I would like to touch on the health of the river . the north - east be one of the most iconic part of the UK . we have Hadrian ' s wall and some of the most stunning countryside in the UK , and we be a region define by our river , include the Tyne , Tweed , Coquet , Wansbeck and Aln . one of the many reason why I be send to this place be the state of the River Tyne ; it be see by my community as an " open sewer " , to quote one person I speak to on the doorstep , and there be an absolute lack of faith in the previous Government to get it clean up . the north - east would not be in the mind of so many people across the world if it be not for our river , and I absolutely welcome the step this Government be already take to clean they up . I know it will not be a quick process , but I look forward to work with they . I want to touch on a few speech by Opposition Members that be very constructive . they talk about rural - proof policy , which be incredibly important . rural policy should not just come up when the DEFRA team be sit on the Front Bench ; it need to be at the heart of every single thing this government do to get our school work , our economy move , and our energy policy right . in my constituency of Truro and Falmouth , housing be a major issue , as it be in many rural community . do my hon . friend agree that we must take action on housing ? we should , in particular , consider the impact of second home in our rural community . I absolutely agree . when I go to place like Bellingham , where I have a constituency surgery come up soon , I be often tell about the impact of second home on the community . it contribute to a decline in a sense of place and in opportunity , and of course it crowd out young people from get on to the housing ladder . I agree that we urgently need to look at that , and I hope that the Government will consider it strongly . briefly , in the time I have leave , I will celebrate the rural crime strategy . member from all part of the House have speak about it a lot . during the election campaign , I speak to a farmer who have someone try to nick her quad bike . she confront he and have to wait 30 minute for a police officer to arrive . she say that be a speedy response , and she be quite pleased with it . that just show the level to which rural crime fighting sink under the previous Government . as a past president of the Young Farmers ' Clubs of Ulster and a former director of Rural Support , which be a mental health charity support farmer and farm family across Northern Ireland , I have work on case where farm family have be through foot and mouth , swine flu , avian influenza and TB . I have see the impact . they have have to deal with complete herd be remove . however , I have never encounter so many farmer in Northern Ireland be as low as they be this minute , due to the farm family inheritance tax put on they by this Government in this place . they be so angry about what be happen . the Secretary of State talk about not listen to the fury , or the alarming headline , but a third of farm in Northern Ireland will be affect . some 75 % of our local dairy sector farm will be affect . those on the Government Front Bench say , " no , they will not " , but that be the assessment of the Agriculture Minister in the devolved Assembly in Northern Ireland . he be wrong . it be also the assessment of the Ulster Farmers Union . I encourage the Government Front Benchers to engage with the devolved administration , because if our Agriculture Minister in Northern Ireland be cause alarm and raise headline that be not accurate , it be up to this Government to correct that . that be the impact , and the feedback that I be receive from farm , farm family and our Agriculture Minister in the devolved Assembly in Northern Ireland . I speak to a friend over the weekend who be a bit young than I , with a young family . he be now concerned about shackle his family farm to his child . he have be progressive , and have take up every financial opportunity to progress the family farm and make sure that it be fit for purpose . he now say that if he have to pay 10 year of inheritance tax , that be 10 year in which he will not be invest in his farm , and its productivity . the average income in Northern Ireland be £ 27 , 345 , and these measure be make our family farm unsustainable . I think the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) mention devolve farming payment now become a Barnett consequential for Northern Ireland . I would love clarity from Treasury or DEFRA Ministers on who ask for that , because it be not Northern Ireland . it sound as if it be not Wales , so why be that change make to how agricultural support go to our devolved administration ? on whose advice and guidance be that change make ? what engagement do the Treasury or the Government have with the devolved institution prior to make it ? there be other issue on matter that be not devolve , but those be the two main one I want to speak about . rise — member will have observe that we have more member stand than be possible to fit into the time we have . I propose an immediate three - minute time limit . please be mindful that we may not get everybody in , even with that time limit . an excellent climate adaptation world caf é event be hold in Rugby town hall on Saturday , organise by my colleague Councillor Alison Livesey , officer and other . it be attend by the public , community group and indeed the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) . I be grateful to she for that . at the event , local councillor tell I detail of the unprecedented flood last winter in the village of Wolston and Brandon , on the road near Bretford , and in surround area . significant damage be do to home and property , and the Royal Oak pub in Brandon close 11 time . I have meet the owner , Khara Schrijvers , and see the new flood barrier at the pub , which will hopefully ensure the dryness that pub like in future . the people of these village come together and show the very good of community spirit and human nature as they help one another . early this year , the Wolston and Brandon flood action group be form , partly in response to the lack of preparedness . I know that this Government be do much more than the previous Government ; there be £ 2 . 4 billion extra over two year for flood defence and other innovation . when the heaven open again this September , Ministers work hard to co - ordinate and empower the various agency , council , emergency service and , ultimately , local community . it be vital that the voice of local community be hear . Parish council be an important conduit for that . listen locally be not only morally right , but the intelligent approach , because the intelligence garner be more likely to be right and helpful in prevent future flooding . I be sure that my hon . friend the Minister can reassure my constituent that the new Labour Government place flood resilience and climate adaptation and mitigation high up our list of priority , and place rural village and community at the heart of all we do in this and other area of policy . yesterday , I speak to Ian , who have a beef enterprise and grow cider apple on his farm in Glastonbury . now 74 , he have work his entire life to buy back his family ' s 100 - acre farm . he have finally do it , but the Government ' s change to the APR will soon tear it apart again , undo his life ' s work and leave the farm unviable . sadly , Ian be not alone . during the debate , I read an email from a farmer in Charlton Musgrove who say that her family be shell - shock by labour ' s attack on family farm . the farming sector have experience one shock after the other in recent year , from Brexit to energy price , the war in Ukraine , rise feed price , the Conservatives ' terrible trade deal and mismanagement of the economy , and the botched transition from the basic payment scheme to the environmental land management scheme . Farming be in crisis , and here we be yet again with a misguided policy that hit the future sustainability of family - run farm . we can not allow this to continue as a sterile policy debate about optimal tax rate and allowance . this be about people ' s life , food security and the future of our countryside and the natural environment . it will not be wealthy landowner who suffer under the Government ' s new family farm tax ; it will be farm family barely able to make a living and , sadly , those who be leave behind when a farmer die unexpectedly , and who do not have access to clever accountant or special consultant . not only will they have to deal with the emotional trauma of lose a parent or a partner ; they may be at risk of lose the farm — their home . the Government must abolish this family farm tax or , at the very least , raise the threshold to limit its impact on those who should not have to and can not afford to bear the brunt . the Government must look closely at loophole that allow wealthy landowner who be not farmer to use land as an inheritance tax loophole . agriculture be the most dangerous in industry in Britain . when we talk about farmer , many will assume that we be talk about male , but many woman work in agriculture , and they be 10 % more likely to suffer with depression and 15 % more likely to suffer with anxiety . woman make up 55 % of the farming workforce in England and Wales , so there be an urgent need for target intervention , particularly at key point in their life , when they be most vulnerable to mental ill health , such as during extreme weather or disease outbreak . this family farm tax be another example of gender stereotype and outdated assumption about modern farming . modern family farm be not always run by traditional family , so many will not be able to take advantage of the extra relief . the Government ' s claim that 75 % of farm will be unaffected relie on the assumption that every farmer be married and will benefit from twice the basic allowance . late in 1745 , Dumfries be menace by the Young Pretender , Bonnie Prince Charlie , who demand cash and shoe as he retreat north . today , Dumfries and Galloway be threaten by the great pretender , the Cabinet , who also want cash . apparently , they be sort for shoe and Croydon wellie , though . at the weekend , I attend the Dumfries and Galloway life award , a tremendous celebration of the people of south - west Scotland . they be self - starter and hard worker , and just as well , for they face not only indifference from the Scottish Government but active harm from this Government . I speak with one award winner , Kerr , whose expansion plan for his food business face a pause as he weigh the impact of increase employer national insurance contribution . I speak with a farmer whose good hope of avoid the Chancellor ' s predatory death taxis be for his parent to live a further seven year — they be both aged over 80 . Rural Dumfries and Galloway do not want special treatment ; it want its fair share . it want an acknowledgement that its way of life — with an emphasis on aspiration — be not wrong , though it do pose particular challenge . it want an Agriculture Secretary who do not devolve and forget , but who see some of Britain ' s most productive grassland as a jewel in the crown and a vital part of UK food security . it want a Government who appreciate that if someone in a town or city have £ 10 in their pocket , they will be able to do something with it , whereas in remote and rural Britain , that tenner probably will not get they to the farm road end . Rural Britain be a greenhouse , bring forth a rich harvest of food to our table , but it could be more . it could be a powerhouse if the urban - obsess party on the Government Benches stop treat it merely as a larder to be plunder . Bonnie Prince Charlie take those steal shoe and trudge off to defeat . perhaps dumfrie can seek reparation via the supine Foreign Secretary . regardless , this Prime Minister and his Cabinet be limp towards their own electoral Culloden . agriculture and farming play a very important part in Welsh society , not just economically but culturally and socially . farming family be custodian of the landscape and language in Wales , with a high proportion of they live and work in the Welsh - speak heartland . agriculture be devolve , but trade deal be not , and neither be taxation and food security . agriculture be integral to the Welsh economy , employ around 58 , 000 people . as the climate crisis lead to more food insecurity , support our farmer will be key to our future food security . despite the importance of farming and agriculture in Wales , this Labour Government have seek to undermine our farmer with the change announce in the recent Budget . an effective 20 % tax rate on asset over £ 1 million may seem reasonable on paper , but as we know , most farmer be asset rich and cash poor and would be unable to pay this tax . as I mention last week , the average wage for an upland farmer in Wales be £ 18 , 600 . about 30 % of land in Wales be under some form of tenancy or let , with the majority be short term — of only a few year — under a farm business tenancy agreement . what be the Secretary of State do to protect tenant farmer in Wales , who will be at the sharp end of this tax ? the news regard the change in inheritance tax will be devastating to farmer , and the Government ' s communication of it to the sector have be abysmal . the election of Donald Trump in the USA have reopen speculation of a US - UK trade deal . the trade deal agreement we have have with Australia and New Zealand have undermine Welsh farmer with cheap import , and we must not allow that to happen again . all Parliaments of the UK , include in Wales , should have a decide say on any term of a trade deal with America , particularly those that affect Welsh farmer . for example , the previous UK Government consult to make the country of origin clear on food labelling , so that customer could more easily buy british produce and support local farmer . will the Secretary of State say what progress the new Government be make in that area , and will he consider go far by ensure that " Welsh " and not just " british " labelling be include to help customer who wish to support Welsh farmer when they be shop ? as an MP in a largely rural Cambridgeshire constituency , the potential impact of the change to both agricultural and business property relief stand to have a devastating effect on the livelihood of our family farm . I struggle to believe that newly mint rural Labour mps , or indeed Cambridge ' s own farming Minister , be experience full - throate support for this policy . we be yet to see Government Members take a stance against this policy on behalf of their constituent . they must be receive the same angry and worried email that we be , yet the few who actually come to the Chamber to speak in these debate genuflect before the Government ' s anti - farming policy , while hundred of other hide themselves away . from my local perspective , I can only assume that farmer across the constituency boundary in Labour North West Cambridgeshire simply will not be impact . except they will be : there be 203 farm holding , with a further 306 in Huntingdon and 688 across Huntingdonshire . Guy be an arable farmer in Warboys , right on the constituency boundary with North West Cambridgeshire . his be a 600 - acre arable farm produce wheat , barley , bean and sugar beet . under the Government ' s change to apr and BPR , if Guy be to pass away before pass the farm to his child , the whole business would face a 20 % tax bill , equal to £ 1 . 2 million , or £ 120 , 000 a year over 10 year . that be the entire surplus generate by the farm before any wage be draw . the only way to fund such a bill would be to sell the land — over 20 % of the farm . once that land be go , it be go . as the Prime Minister himself state at the 2023 NFU conference : " lose a farm be not like lose any other business — it can ' t come back " . that land will end up be sell through necessity to developer for house or for solar farm , both of which , conveniently , be political priority for this Government . farming clearly be not . next week , thousand of farmer will be here in Westminster lobby we , their representative in this House , to tell we of the impact this policy will have on their livelihood . the fact that the NFU have be force into take these step — after unproductive discussion with the Secretary of State , whom many will feel they can no long trust after his pledge that the Government have no plan to make change to APR turn out to be a falsehood — be a damn indictment of Labour ' s commitment to farmer . the Prime Minister claim that this Labour Government : " seek a new relationship with the countryside and farming community … a relationship base on respect and on genuine partnership . " whether it be in Huntingdon , Cambridgeshire or any of our rural heartland , the Prime Minister be not deliver on that promise . the Prime Minister ' s " new relationship " have quickly sour into a toxic one . I hope that Labour mp will be brave enough not only to face their constituent when they come to Westminster next week , but to lobby the Chancellor and the Secretary of State to ensure that our family farm be not tax out of existence . I be proud to represent the Bridgwater constituency , which have both urban and rural community . it be plain to see that those live in the countryside do not enjoy the same quality of service as those live in town . one of the great difference be in broadband and mobile signal . in today ' s economy , access to fast , reliable internet be essential for any business , whether to receive order or to complete vat return . when I question the Minister last month about fund for the share rural network , he confirm that the new Government will continue the plan of the Conservative Administration to extend access to rural community . since then , we have have disappointing news . connect Devon and Somerset , along with its partner Airband , be scale back plan to provide fibre optic broadband to rural area in my constituency and in other in Somerset . I have request a meeting with the Minister on this matter , as it be of critical importance . if we be to ensure the prosperity of rural area , investment in rural broadband and 5 g must be a national priority . another issue that disproportionately affect our rural community be flood , which particularly affect our farmer . when farm flood , as they often do in Somerset , the damage to crop , infrastructure and livestock can be devastating . the Government need to improve how statutory body work together . join up their effort would help we to predict flood well and prevent agency from be overwhelmed when multiple flooding event occur . the Government should take a more proactive role in support farmer with well flood prevention measure , and ensure that compensation , when provide , be fair , accessible and timely . the challenge of food security require we to invest in local agriculture and ensure that our farmer be thrive in an environment that value sustainable , reliable food production . the Government ' s increase in inheritance tax for farmer will harm food production in our country . it be a poorly conceive attack on family farm , many of which be high in value — land , building and machinery — but produce a low return . family who work hard to feed the nation should not be tax out of existence by the Chancellor , but labour ' s family farm tax will make it impossible for many farmer to pass on their land to their child . if I have have enough time , I would have address rural bus service — or the lack thereof — rural housing , especially for young family , and the provision of small rural school . however , I will end by say that with well policy for food security and farming , Britain can have a strong and vibrant countryside . in my constituency and across the country , family farmer be the custodian of our countryside . for generation , they have contribute to our nation ' s food security and land stewardship , provide employment , support local supply chain , and bring rural community together . the change to agricultural property relief — this family farm tax — be the wrong tax aim at the wrong target . as we have hear many time , farm , while asset rich , be cash poor . Most farmer do not have hundred of thousand of pound of cash available to pay an inheritance tax bill , so they will have to sell the very asset that they use to farm to raise capital . indicate dissent . the Minister shake his head , and he have be shake his head throughout the debate . the issue be this : the Government be not listen to farmer the length and breadth of the country . they be not listen to the National Farmers Union , and they be not listen to the CLA . People who speak for the farming community , people who represent the farming community , be not be listen to , and that be why they be in this position . it do not matter , it seem , how much we say to the Minister , or how much we say what our constituent be say . the Government be not listen , and they be not willing to listen . last Friday , I meet member of NFU Scotland ' s north - east region . perhaps the Minister will not listen to this either , but they tell I about some matter that they have be concern about . one be a farmer whose father , age 90 , still own the land and still farm it . he say to I , " I will have to sell . I think I have a lifetime of farming ahead of I , but now it turn out that I only have what be leave of my father ' s lifetime . " he do not sound angry ; he just sound broken . another put it like this : " it be just a waste . do they " — the Government — " not understand the resource that we have invest into family farm for generation — the skill , health and safety , teach about husbandry and agronomy ? we invest so much more than just money into farm , and this will all be lose . it be just such a waste . " in their manifesto the Government say that " food security be national security . " they reiterate that last week , add : " the Government ' s commitment to support farmer and rural community be unwavering . " — [ Official Report , 4 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c . 23 . ] however , in the few month since the election , the Government have do nothing to justify those claim . grant solar farm on prime land , tax fertiliser , remove the ringfence from the agricultural budget for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , and make change to inheritance tax will impact family farm for generation . the Government have miss a key point : it be not word that impress or satisfy our farming community ; it be action , and so far this Government ' s action have let our farmer down . on Armistice Day , I want to mention the vital role that our farmer play during the world war to keep food on the table , as they continue to do . if I have more time , I would spend it champion the farmer in my own constituency , not least because it be the home of Berkswell cheese . I would welcome any member who would like to try it , and they might also like to try some of the turkey from Rod Adlington ' s farm . however , I will focus on APR and BPR . I think that the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , the shadow Secretary of State , do a wonderful job of deconstruct the Government ' s argument in that regard , despite Ministers ' desire to hide their head in the sand . we be see a travesty unfold in front of we . we be see the travesty of the Secretary of State say that farmer need to do more with less , and the Government ' s sheer brass neck in not listen , which be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) . our farmer be work people . they put food on our table and be responsible for our food security , but the Budget put our family farm on notice . in my constituency and those across the country , family farm ensure that we have food on our table . they do not do so at a profit , even if they have asset that they will now be tax on . I spend some time wonder why the policy be introduce , and it be clear that it be a cynical ploy to free up land so that the Deputy Prime Minister can concrete over our green belt and the Energy Secretary — [ interruption . ] Labour member can shout I down if they want — that be fine — but farmer be listen and can see the arrogance of those on the Government Benches . the Energy Secretary ' s desire be to have pylon and solar panel pepper across our green belt . the Government break their promise on NI , they break their promise to pensioner , and now they be break their promise to our farmer . some clarity be need , because the Chancellor have repeatedly say that the threshold will be share between spouse . that be contradict by the Treasury , and the Secretary of State say something else at the Dispatch Box . farmer need clarity , because how can they possibly plan if the Chancellor and the Secretary of State do not know their own policy and be contradict each other ? the Government continue to say that the policy will not affect that many farmer , but defra ' s own analysis show that it will affect 66 % of they . the Secretary of State say he be use the Treasury ' s figure . why do two Departments ' figure contradict each other ? we need clarity on that , because it be important . [ interruption . ] Labour member can shout I down , but it be really important for the livelihood of so many people . when it come to undermine our food security and national security , the only winner be autocrat around the world who would like to see we weaken — autocrat like Vladimir Putin . that be exactly what the policy will lead to . we all want growth , but growth require investment . investment require confidence , but confidence among rural community be collapse , include in Boston and Skegness . since the Budget , one farmer have cancel a £ 1 million expansion plan for his strawberry - grow business . I know another farmer who have cancel a £ 300 , 000 investment in equipment . just yesterday , I hear from a hospitality entrepreneur in my constituency who have cancel another investment in a new pub . it mean less growth , few job and less incentive for young people to stay in our rural community . that be the reality . confidence in the Environment Agency be also collapse . just yesterday afternoon , I be on the riverbank at Wainfleet and see the consequence of fail management , the failure to dredge our river and the failure to protect our riverbank . again , it mean that local farmer and entrepreneur will not have the confidence to invest . confidence be such a critical word , but confidence in this Government be collapse in rural community . it seem the Government want to blight our countryside , include in my constituency , with thousand of ugly pylon and thousand of acre of solar farm . that will not provide food security . the Government be determined to set course on this ridiculous farm tax , but I urge they to have the humility to listen and to look at the result . if investment be down , job be down and family farm be down in one or two year ' time , they should accept that they be wrong and reverse it . over 52 , 000 hectare of the land in South Northamptonshire be agricultural — equivalent to more than 35 , 000 football pitch — so rural issue be at the heart of my constituency . I will focus on three matter : the death of the family farm , flooding and solar farm . the Chancellor ' s agricultural property relief reform have cause huge distress among the farming community in South Northamptonshire . last week , I join fellow Opposition mp to deliver a letter to Downing Street urge she to rethink this disastrous policy . however , we must not forget the other pernicious element of the Budget . increase tax on fertiliser — the carbon tax — to meet net zero target will force farmer to produce less food . we will therefore have to import it from a country that do not have such a tax , with all the result carbon impact . it be unbelievably counterintuitive . the Government will also now class double - cab pick - up — the workhorse vehicle of the countryside — as company car for tax purpose . this change could increase the tax burden on the work people of the countryside by 211 % . I be stagger that Labour can say that food security be national security while introduce a smorgasbord of attack on farmer . member may also be aware that in September part of Northamptonshire and Bedfordshire suffer catastrophic flooding . the village of Grendon in my constituency be flood in a matter of minute at 9 o ' clock on a Sunday evening , result in the entire downstairs floor of some property be ruin , car be destroy and priceless memory be lose . resident believe this may have occur due to insufficient dredging of a nearby brook , such that when the heavy rainfall occur upstream , the water build up like a dam that burst and wreak havoc . will the Secretary of State and the Minister commit to explore how extensively the Environment Agency dredge small brook , to prevent such catastrophe from recur ? on solar farm , Easton Maudit in my constituency would be envelop on three side by the propose 2 , 000 - acre Green Hill solar farm , with once - beautiful english countryside reduce to grey sheet of plastic and glass . I be not against more renewable energy , but to have a solar farm on such a scale totally envelop an idyllic rural village , while warehouse on the M1 sit without solar panel on their roof , seem totally illogical to I and my constituent . our rural town and village may be small in size and less visible than our urban city , but their resident be just as important and we must protect they . the gravity of this situation be bring home to I by a letter that I receive recently from a South Cotswolds constituent , a farmer near Sherston whose experience vividly illustrate the challenge our agricultural sector face . he manage a 200 - acre farm , a combination of own and rent primarily arable land , with a small field of Brussels sprout , where I spend a day help with the harvest last Christmas . I be no farmer , but that day spend in the mud and drizzle give I some inkling of just how hard our farmer work and how dedicated they be . despite their good effort , their financial reality be stark . last year , with an above - average harvest and a favourable crop price , they make just £ 34 , 000 before even pay themselves anything . this year , with fall crop price , they anticipate a loss . the recent Budget proposal have cast a long shadow over our farming community , add to an already vulnerable situation . the change to agricultural property relief threaten to force the sale of farm that have be in the same family for generation . that Brussels sprout farmer face a potential inheritance tax bill of nearly £ 239 , 000 , a sum that could be pay only by sell off part of the farm that have be in his family for three generation . the Liberal Democrats have long recognise that food security be national security . we understand that environmental stewardship and food production be not mutually exclusive , but mutually reinforce goal . it be in line with this that I have introduce my private Member ' s Bill , the Climate and Nature Bill , which would help to support farmer , to support nature and to support we . our farmer be not just food producer : they be the guardian of our land , regenerate soil , restore wildlife and enhance biodiversity . many people think that the climate crisis be the cause of the nature crisis , but many believe — rightly , I think — that it be the loss of nature that be contribute to the climate crisis . the Royal Agricultural University in Cirencester , in the South Cotswolds , be now start to pioneer the idea of zero dig , know that when we regenerate soil it sink more carbon , mitigate climate change ; it hold more water , mitigate flooding ; and it yield more nutritious food , improve human health . I call on the Secretary of State to heed the voice of our farmer . we need to work together to create a future in which british agriculture be strong , resilient and sustainable — a future where our farmer can produce the food we need while nurture the land we love . I call the shadow Minister . rural community be proud community , and our farmer work tirelessly around the clock not only to put high - quality food on our plate but , through their business , to help to keep our rural economy go — as , indeed , do many other rural business , as member on both side of the House have recognise . I congratulate the hon . member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) and for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) on deliver their maiden speech . I know Stirling and Strathallan very well , have be bear in Stirling — I be a proper unionist — which give I my red hair . each speak proudly on behalf of their constituent , and I welcome they to this place . we be just a few month into this Labour Government and , follow a string of broken promise and damaging cut , trust among our farming community be now at an all - time low . why be this new Government , across every single Department , decide to sideline the voice of our rural community ? we have hear that the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be plough ahead with his plan to replace productive agricultural land with solar panel , and to replace protect moorland with wind turbine — all against the consent of local people . the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government be take away from local people the power to decide how they would like to see their rural community expand , while provide no commitment whatsoever to improve service and infrastructure alongside any increase demand . the Secretary of State for Transport be scrap the £ 2 bus cap , which the previous Government introduce as a vital part of the rural transport plan . labour ' s change leave many people in remote rural community pay even more to get to work or to visit friend and love one . the Chancellor be stifle rural growth by hike national insurance for small business owner , who be the backbone of our rural community , alongside her disastrous change to inheritance tax relief through the ill - thought - through cap on agricultural property relief and business property relief , which will affect not only multigenerational family farm but trading business with asset value well over the Government ' s ridiculous £ 1 million cap . the Chancellor be also tax double - cab pick - up truck , as well as increase the fertiliser tax , which be expect to increase cost by up to £ 50 a tonne . then , of course , the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have willingly sell off his own budget to the Chancellor and break every pre - election promise that he and his Government make to farmer , and then have the cheek to tell they to do more with less . that be all while he be dramatically reduce the delinked payment rate , which take effect next year , despite many farming business already have factor the income into their cash - flow forecast . it be quite simple : this Labour Government do not understand rural community and , what be bad , do not even appear to want to listen to they . do the hon . Gentleman agree with I and David Walston from Thriplow in South Cambridgeshire that the impact of house price and infrastructure mean there be a complete disconnect between land value and income , which be affect — Order . I know David well , as a fellow Nuffield farming scholar , and I agree with he on this Budget ' s catastrophic consequence . I be not sure how many farmer the Secretary of State speak to in Croydon over the weekend , but I can tell he that the many farmer I speak to are up in arm . just last week I be at the northern farming conference in Hexham where , perhaps unsurprisingly , a huge number of complaint be raise by the farmer in attendance , with some even protest at the gate . Ian Brown , a constituent of the hon . member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) , say that this Budget will have catastrophic consequence for the farming community , yet all we hear from the Minister during that conference be a defence of the new Government , and not a single word about how they may have get it wrong . I understand that when he address the egg and poultry conference this morning , the Secretary of State conclude that farmer be exaggerate the consequence of the Budget . it be just staggering . I be sure that many of the new Labour mps , represent some of our fantastic rural constituency , have receive huge amount of correspondence from farmer outline their disgust at Labour ' s Budget , but we hear very little from they in voice their concern . I be not sure whether the whip be silence they from raise their concern , or whether they be completely tone deaf to the Budget ' s direct impact on many of their constituent . if they would like some help , maybe I could outline some of the thing they should be raise in this debate , such as increase in taxis on machinery , fertiliser , building material , farm diversification and employee , and , bad of all , the crippling family farm tax , which risk force thousand of hard - work farmer to surrender their life ' s work to the Chancellor . Labour Members do not understand that the vast majority of family farmer be not multimillionaire ; most be cash poor and operate under tiny margin , with many struggle to break even . to sustain their business , they generally operate from an asset base that have a high value . that be why the APR and BPR cap that have be impose be so out of touch with the reality on the ground , as my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) rightly outline . when the value of the farmland , the farmhouse and perhaps a cottage or two be take into account , and then the value of any livestock , grow crop , machinery , stock or crop in store be add , along with the value of any farm diversification project that may have take place , the value of any asset be likely to be well in excess of the £ 1 million cap , so the tax will impact the vast majority of farming business . the Minister will say , " look at the detail " , but I assure he we have look at the detail , as have the NFU , the CLA , the Tenant Farmers Association , the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers , and many professional , be they accountant , solicitor or land agent work in the sector , as well as many of the constituent of right hon . and hon . member on the conservative Benches . we have all come to the same conclusion : labour ' s positioning be wrong , will have catastrophic consequence and must change . I again ask the Minister to provide clarity on the information he be rely on to make these decision . the smokescreen of a £ 3 million cap be incompatible with many farming business . it will not provide many farming business or family farming set - up with the reassurance the Chancellor claim to be give they . the same can be say about the justification of the 10 - year payment for any IHT debt . that debt would result in asset have to be dispose of , because business will simply not have the fund to pay , nor will the bank be willing to lend against any IHT tax , should it be impose , because many farmer will not be able to service such a loan . will the Government publish a full impact assessment of the consequence their Budget will have on many farming business , food security and the large rural sector ? we should never forget that this debate be about people . hard - work farmer be at the heart of the debate . some of their life will be change for ever . farming can be a very lonely business , with long hour and the constant stress of battle against the odd . our farmer be under extreme pressure , but unfortunately this Budget have do nothing to provide they with any reassurance , support or certainty that the Government be on their side . it be no surprise that charity be raise concern about the shocking rise in mental health issue among our farming community follow the announcement in the Government ' s Budget . I pay tribute to those farming charity and organisation that help to provide much - need support , not only to our farmer but to all those involve in our remote rural community . to sum up , sometimes in politic it be hard to admit to be wrong , but after speak to farmer , agricultural business and farming organisation up and down the UK , it be clear that the Government have get this wrong and be completely off the mark . I suspect even the Ministers on the Treasury Bench know that they have get this wrong , but they have choose to double down . for the sake of our farmer and our rural community — in fact , everyone who have be impact by the Budget — I say to the Government that change be one of Labour ' s key promise in the election and , right now , nothing would be more welcome . it be a pleasure to have the opportunity to wind up this debate and to add my gratitude to , and support for , farmer work hard up and down the country to feed the nation and protect our environment . I welcome the shadow Ministers to their place on the Opposition Front Bench . I spend nearly five year sit there , and I have to say it be well on this side . during that time , how rarely we ever get to discuss rural policy in the Chamber . it be interesting that it have take a Labour Government to give Government time to allow member to speak up for rural area . what brilliant contribution we have have from Labour Members about the thing that matter to rural area . I shall mention some of the excellent speech . I be thrilled to hear the three maiden speech . my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) speak about a range of issue — [ interruption . ] of course farming be important , but conservative should remember that many other thing be go on in rural area . we hear about those from my hon . friend , but we also hear about ghastly homophobic bullying , and I pay tribute to he for his brave comment . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) about the extraordinary pedigree in his constituency , as well the wide range of issue , include film and television production , that help to create rural prosperity . close to my part of the world , my hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) describe the beautiful countryside , but also talk of the challenge in housing and the food bank that scar our country . how much we should all work to ensure that food poverty be not face in the future . I can not talk about all the speech today , but I be pleased to hear the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) raise some other issue beyond the one that I will come to in a moment . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) about flooding — a feature of many speech . we hear a powerful speech from my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) about the positive thing that the Labour Government be do to address the real issue that we face . we also hear from the Chair of the Select Committee , who be not in his place — [ interruption . ] I be sorry — I miss he . I think he have move . I always listen closely to his speech and he make an important point when he say it be not about the figure . that be true , because the figure have be misrepresent , but he be right to say that there be a real fear out there — precisely because of the misrepresentation , not because of the figure . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) , who show the difference between this side of the House and the other side . the future will be different for rural area , food production and farming — [ interruption . ] in a good way , because we be the future , they be the past . then we go to my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , and we hear about how important it be to work collaboratively with people . we also hear about the important transition from the basic payment system towards the new way of work with and reward farmer effectively . from my hon . friend the Member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) we hear about crime . it be interesting that it take a Labour Member , so deep into the debate , to talk about an issue that anyone who have actually be out on farm would have hear about — the constant theft of GPS unit . I sometimes wonder what world Conservative Members be live in — do they just read the Daily Telegraph all the time ? be that where they get their information ? my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) speak about wonderful national park and well access to the countryside , which be important for so many people ; the Government will deliver on that . my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) speak about how prosperity come to rural area . sometimes it come from filming and tv . there be many way in which prosperity be earn in the countryside ; this be the future . my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) speak about rural crime and PC Susan Holliday ; I very much commend she for her work . my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) speak about not just flooding but biosecurity , which be so important , and mental health , which we will come to in the Adjournment debate . I associate myself with the comment of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , about the important work that so many charity be do . my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) speak about rural homelessness , which be an important topic . I be strike by how negative Opposition Members be about the prospect of build more home . that be what matter to all our constituent . they need somewhere to live , not just somewhere to rent out to people at extortionate rate . my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) remind the House about the extraordinary low level of farmer confidence when the last Government be in power . the Conservatives bear some responsibility for that lack of confidence . I be delighted to visit Hexham last week for the excellent conference . I say to the shadow Minister , it be strike how many people come up to I after each of these event and say , " you ' re right . you ' re right . you ' re right . " of course , against the huge peer pressure they be reluctant to say it , but they know that we be right . my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) be the first Labour MP for that area . the Conservatives might want to think about why that be . I think it be because they be look to the past , not the future . we finish by hear from my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) . how long it take in the debate to get to parish council — the people close to the ground . let I turn to the issue that the opposition be consistently raise . I hear and understand what people be say , but I wait in vain through the entire debate for an Opposition Member to address the real figure — the actual claim that have be make under APR . they be not a projection or a guess , but the figure publish by the people in the Treasury who actually collect the tax . those figure be of course the figure that we have be quote : between 400 and 500 claim per year . with the change in behaviour that be likely as a consequence of the policy — possibly , and quite likely , very good consequence — the number will be very small . that be not just what we have say ; Paul Johnson from the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say it . will the Minister give way ? I will not , because I be afraid we be very close to the end . opposition Members have four hour to get to the figure , but of course they would not want to engage with they because they tell a different story . we be confident that the policy can be make to work , but I be in discussion with the NFU and other on the figure so that they can understand how we arrive at the policy . we will continue to ensure that we engage properly with everybody . my hon . friend have discover that when they go and talk to people and explain it clearly , people be reassure . People should be reassure rather than frightening . member raise issue around the devolved budget . this year ' s settlement have be carry forward in the same way as before , but what have change be that it be no long ringfence for the devolved administration , so they can make the decision . I would hope that the devolve administration would welcome that . let I finish on the positive news about the future that we be set out for our food production system . I give credit to the previous Government for the agricultural transition that they begin . the difference now be that we will turbocharge it and ensure that we transition in such a way that in the future we not only have strong food production in this country , but protect the environment and nature , with the stability of the big budget ever — over half a billion pound for SFI this year . that would not have happen under the previous Government . I be confident that we will have a strong future for british farming in this country , provide that people do not spend the whole time talk it down . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider rural affair . Mental Health : Farming and Agricultural Communities Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) I be grateful to have secure a debate on the vital and pertinent issue of mental health in farming and agricultural community . it be sadly no exaggeration to say that we have a mental health crisis in our rural and agricultural community . in January 2021 , the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution launch a large research project call the big farming survey . the audience of the survey be 15 , 000 farmer , contractor and their household , and its aim be to achieve a well understanding of the health and wellbeing of the farming community in England and Wales . the report find that the farming community have low than average mental wellbeing compare with the wide UK population . a point of concern be that over a third of those who complete the survey have significantly low mental wellbeing score . worryingly , a similar number say that they be probably or possibly depressed , accord to NHS threshold . I thank the hon . member for give way and congratulate she on secure this important debate . the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution ' s big farming survey also find that 52 % of farmer experience regular pain and discomfort , while one in four have mobility problem . do she agree that we must recognise that physical health have an impact on mental health , and ensure that the NHS , GPs and mental health service be join up ? the hon . member , who be an excellent champion for farmer in her community , make an important point on physical health . I congratulate the hon . Lady , to whom I speak beforehand , on secure the debate . the Ulster Farmers Union run its " Mind your head " campaign every February to bring down the stigma attach to poor mental health in the farming sector . that be so important because research show that 95 % of young farmer in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have concern about their mental health . do she feel that this matter should be consider not just in England and Wales , but across this great nation ? the hon . Member make an important point : this issue impact every part of our Union . I will refer to the impact on young people later in my speech . to go back to the RABI survey , the report find that the farming community have low than average mental wellbeing compare with the wide UK population . a point of concern be that over a third of those who complete the survey have significantly low mental wellbeing score . worryingly , a similar number say that they be probably or possibly depressed . nearly half of respondent say that they be experience some form of anxiety . tragically , one in five respondent know someone who have attempt to take their own life . I remind the House that the survey have 15 , 000 response , so that be a shockingly high statistic , and I hope that its gravity hit home with member across the House . since the report be launch in January 2021 , thing have not become any easy for farmer and the rural community . Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , and its consequence for energy and fertiliser price , and for the flow of commodity such as grain and oilseed , have cause farmer a great deal of concern . economic factor such as inflation have also hit farmer hard , and like several place across the country , we in Cheshire have have a particularly bad year with regard to rainfall . those problem all compound exist challenge , thereby put a significant strain on farmer who be already under huge pressure . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate and for give way . just last Friday , I visit a farm in my constituency . it be a family farm : David run the construction side of the business , Robert run the farm , and their sister Sharon run the book . by any measure , it be a successful farm . that family have own the property for a long period of time , but when they speak to I , they talk — as my hon . friend have say — about high energy cost , high interest rate , tough international competition , tough regulation on pesticide and the use of chemical , and a volatile climate . then , to raise the issue that be the subject of our last debate , they talk about the new rule on inheritance tax . be it any surprise that many people in the farming industry feel stressed and under pressure , consider the policy introduce by this Government ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . the sector face a wide range of challenge , and of course , the decision that the Government be make will contribute in part to some of those challenge . some be outside the control of all of we , the weather be one example . I represent Chester South and Eddisbury , a constituency with a large rural area . because of the nature of Cheshire ' s ground and topography , dairy be the predominant mode of farming locally . that bring additional challenge through the risk of animal disease outbreak , and their financial and emotional consequence . I would like to take a moment to share some of the very real story that demonstrate why I have ask for today ' s debate , because behind every statistic be a personal story . there be family , love one , friend and community who be deeply affect . those of we who represent rural and agricultural community know that the suicide rate among farmer be tragically high . sadly , even in the short time that I have have the privilege of represent Chester South and Eddisbury , I have have example in my constituency that have cause a great deal of pain to the family and the surround area . when something like this happen , it rock a tight - knit community to its core , and the impact be feel by many . only last week , I hear of a tragic incident where a daughter find her father after he have take his own life in one of the barn on their family farm . in a tribute , the daughter write of how her father work so incredibly hard , and how proud he be to have increase the acreage and yield of the family farm during his stewardship . he be immensely proud of the operation he have build . his daughter sum up the vocation of farming in her online tribute : " farmer work hard and long than most other trade and earn significantly less . we love what we do , or we wouldn ' t do it . we feed the nation to the good of our ability " . I can not begin to imagine what the family of those two farmer be go through , but as I say early , such case be too common . member from right across the House will have hear other story like these in their own constituency . I thank the hon . Lady for give way and for secure this important debate . on the vital issue of the tragedy of suicide among the farming community , I have meet several farmer in my constituency who have feel that pressure — the common theme be that everybody know somebody who have feel that pressure at some point , or sadly have even take their own life . do the hon . Lady agree that right across the House , we should agree to support farmer in whatever way we can ? I appreciate the hon . member ' s comment , and I be sorry to hear about the tragic instance in his constituency . we very much need to be collaborative to improve thing for the farming community . I thank the hon . Lady for secure the debate . will she join I in pay tribute to farmer - initiate and farmer - lead organisation , such as we be Farming Minds in my constituency ? they do such important work to support their colleague in the farming sector and to tackle mental health challenge head - on . I be grateful to the hon . member for mention those excellent organisation ; I will note other later in my speech . for all those reason , this debate and the action and commitment from the Minister be important . woman be an often overlook group when we talk about rural mental health , particularly young woman . there be inspiring example of woman who run farm and contribute a great deal to the agricultural sector . of course , woman be almost always involve in a farming operation , even if they be not always hand - on in the yard or field . my hon . friend be make a powerful point . when I visit Pierrepont farm in my constituency , which have just be take over by a new young female farmer , she talk about the stress and problem that she be face . they do not just affect young woman , however , but family too ; Mathias & Son Nurseries in my constituency equally have those problem . the issue that my hon . friend be talk about affect establish family farm and the new young generation , and the policy of the new Government be hit both equally . do she agree that we need to look after the new young female farmer as well as our establish family farm ? absolutely ; we know that mental health issue have an impact on people across the community . it be not just the individual who be directly affect , but those around that person . the RABI survey find that woman age 24 to 35 have the bad mental health score across the sample , so I ask the Minister to think about how policy can address that and how we can raise awareness of the mental health challenge face all those in farming and rural community . I stress that there be some wonderful organisation , locally and nationally , that work hard to support our rural and agricultural community and to provide support for mental wellbeing . I mention again the rabi and the role it play in support farmer , and other such as the Farming Community Network and the Yellow Wellies ' " mind your head " project , which help farmer when they need it most . those organisation , as good as they be , be not the long - term solution , nor can they find and prevent every tragic occurrence and consequence of suicide in the rural community . any good doctor would say that prevention be well than cure . the cause of a significant amount of stress for farmer , particularly recently , have be Government policy . I have just get off the telephone to a constituent from Yarcombe in Devon , who be a tenant farmer and be particularly anxious about agricultural property relief and the Government ' s propose inheritance tax change . do the hon . Lady agree that that be an appalling proposition ? I thank the hon . member for share that . the impact of APR will be feel across the community . unfortunately , in a community that be struggle with mental health , it be an extra blow . later , I will offer some thought on how we might well prevent mental health problem , but I will briefly mention a few other reason why mental health issue be disproportionately high in rural area . first , there be the issue of isolation , which be multifacete . it can be attribute to literal isolation , because farmer live in sparsely populate area far from the near village ; digital isolation , as they be without broadband or mobile coverage ; and physical isolation from a lack of transport link . that issue keenly feel in my constituency , where many rural area have little or no public transport connection . a mixture of those form of isolation mean that people in rural area , such as farmer , often suffer from loneliness . it be not easy for people to go to the local pub or caf é to talk to friend and neighbour when they live in the countryside . it be hard to get to those place , and hard to make time to socialise due to the demand of farming . there be also the issue of rural reticence . there have historically be a stigma surround mental health ; sadly , although we have make good progress in break down barrier and encourage people to talk , there remain a reticence in rural and agricultural community to talk about problem or feeling . it be not because of hubris or arrogance . rather , the " I ' ll manage myself " culture come from a desire not to burden neighbour and friend who be also in the community , and will no doubt be face the same challenge . I be confident that we can do more as a society to break down this barrier and encourage farmer to talk honestly and openly with one another . my hon . friend personify the conservative commitment to farm and farming , and she do so with style and acuman . the fear that she have describe be exacerbate by the way farmer now face their customer : supermarket be ruthless in how they deal with farmer . it be the fear that dare not speak its name ; our farmer can not speak , for those be the people to whom they sell their good . will my hon . friend implore the Government to take a tough line on the sharp practice of the big retailer in the light of its effect on farmer ? my right hon . friend always make such pertinent point . I know the importance he place on issue surround food security : he work extremely hard to highlight the challenge that farmer face all around they , and to ensure that they get a fair price from supplier . mental health problem be also more prevalent in agricultural community because of the volatility of farming . farmer do not enjoy the luxury of stability and be vulnerable to shock such as adverse weather and flooding , health issue within herd , such as bovine tuberculosis , and economic problem . agricultural policy ought to create stability for farmer , not more uncertainty . I will speak more about that issue shortly . there be many reason why rural mental health be disproportionately bad , but I hope that the three I have mention give the House an idea of why I secure this debate . I have three ask of the government ; I hope that the Minister will be receptive and will commit to work alongside colleague across the House and within Government to make real progress . my first request be that the Government take an integrated approach . I humbly suggest to the Minister that that have be an issue with recent Government policy , particularly in relation to agricultural property relief . minister in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs should have be in the room when the decision be make to change APR . if they be in the room , their priority and their plea to the Treasury should have be the impact on family farm , food security and the local economy . DEFRA Ministers should also be involve in many cross - governmental discussion . we need a join - up approach whereby farmer and the rural community be consistently represent by Ministers who have their good interest at heart . only then can we hope to see a policy that do not cause the agricultural community more concern , lead to further uncertainty and exacerbate the challenge . the decision on APR have once again bring rural mental health to the forefront . we have see too many tragic story in the paper . I hope that this be a wake - up call to the Government to start take rural policy seriously , and not see farmer as a community to exploit . my second ask of the Minister be that a specific strategy be put in place for young people who live in rural community . statistic show a significant uptick in mental health problem among young people , particularly after the pandemic , but many of the problem that I have outline as compound factor make rural mental health bad be even more prominent among young people . research conduct by Yellow Wellies show that 95 % of farmer under 40 believe that mental health be the big hide problem face farmer today . that be a shockingly high statistic . we know that there be a shortage of young people enter the agricultural sector . that shortage be very often drive by the isolation of rural area and by the lack of opportunity . if we want the countryside to thrive and farm to be a successful and attractive sector , we must do more to support young people . an important part of that be make sure that their mental health be in as good a place as it can be , so I ask the Minister to reassure the House that this will be a priority for he , and to meet I and representative from the Cheshire young Farmers ' Clubs to discuss how the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs can well understand the mental health pressure on young people in rural area . my final ask be that we make sure that farmer be at the centre of policy decision that relate to rural area and the agricultural sector . the ask be simple but very necessary . when the Government be formulate policy , I urge they to think of its implication and consequence . I ask they to think about the motivation behind the policy , and to remind themselves of the motivation behind our farmer ' work . they be motivate by service to our country , by provide food and care for our countryside , and by be part of their local community , support friend and family , and work to support the local economy . farmer be part of the fabric of our country , the backbone of local economy and stalwart in our community . when minister feed into policy , I ask that they remember that and reflect the value of the rural and agricultural community . if minister do that , we can go a long way towards improve mental health in area where that be so desperately need . I thank the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) for introduce this very serious debate in such a calm and measure way befit the seriousness of the subject . let I start by extend my sincere condolence to all those who in recent time have lose love one , and to their friend , family and community . every suicide be a tragedy that have a devastating and enduring impact on family and friend . I absolutely recognise that farmer face challenge on many front , and we will do everything we can to safeguard the mental health of people work in the sector . in recent year there have be a grow awareness of the importance of mental health in the sector , which I absolutely welcome ; I agree with the hon . Lady ' s comment about the impact on woman , and we will continue to work with the full range of farming charity . I particularly echo her comment about amazing organisation such as the Farming Community Network and the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution , and I very much recognise the point about the survey ; indeed , the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) and I be on a panel discuss this very issue with Yellow Wellies last year . we be support the mental health and wellbeing of our farmer , and in the come week I will invite charity and other stakeholder with expertise in this area to discuss how we can grow a well national support system for farmer . I do not have much time , so I will not go into a whole range of detail , but extreme weather event , such as flood , and the pressure of disease clearly put additional stress on people ; we fully appreciate that . we will continue to seek out opportunity to support people . today I have agree to continue the funding for the Farming Community Network , which support community affect by bovine tuberculosis ; we be put in place a three - year contract , start on 1 December . that support begin back in 2009 , and it provide tb - affect farmer and their family with a national , free - to - access business and pastoral advice service . it have be successful , and we be very pleased to continue it . furthermore , we continue to provide funding for several organisation that will deliver project to address these issue . the Farming Community Network , Lincolnshire Rural Support Network , the Farmer Network and you be not alone be all in receipt of funding this year , and we will continue to work with third - sector organisation to keep deliver support into the future . on suicide prevention , we be work across government to improve mental health and access to service . I pay tribute to everyone who be work to raise awareness , and I encourage those who be struggle to reach out for help . we recognise the point about isolation and difficulty in ask for help , so we be give mental health the same attention and focus as physical health . we want everyone to be confident about access high - quality mental health support when they need it . I be pleased that we have announce that we will recruit 8 , 500 new mental health worker , who will be train to support people at risk of suicide . the £ 10 million suicide prevention grant fund , which run until March 2025 , continue to provide funding to a range of voluntary and community organisation to support their work on suicide prevention . the hon . Lady make good point about loneliness and isolation . suicide be a complex , multifaceted issue , and loneliness and isolation be particular risk factor for people in rural area , such as farmer and agricultural worker . we be committed to tackle loneliness , include by provide advice on loneliness as part of the " Better Health — every mind matter " campaign . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport also support organisation that can play a role in reduce loneliness stigma among man in particular , through the Tackling Loneliness Hub . that online platform connect professional from across sector work to reduce loneliness . I conclude by thank the hon . Lady for bring this important subject to the attention of the House . I appreciate the Minister ' s constructive comment , and some of the policy he mention that he put in place . as I note , I want to raise the importance of the impact on young people in the farming industry , so will he meet I and Cheshire young Farmers ' Clubs , so that young farmer can hear at first hand from the Minister and put question to he on this issue ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s commitment to support young people . it be certainly one of my passion to ensure that we transform the system to make it easy for young people to come into farming and prosper . I be on a perpetual tour of the country , and I be sure that I can find a time and opportunity to meet she and her young people . I look forward to do so . in conclusion , the Government be commit to support farmer and agricultural worker in access the support that they need to protect their mental health and wellbeing . we will work to tackle loneliness and isolation in rural area . we will ensure provision of high - quality , accessible mental health support . we be determined to support farmer as they do the vital work of produce food and look after nature and the environment . question put and agree to . House adjourn .